VILLAGE CODE
of
GREEN OAKS, ILLINOIS
1988
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-O-07, passed May 28, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Ste. 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the Village of Green Oaks, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 2025-O-07, passed May 28 2025. Ordinances of the
Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
2025-O-08
Passed 09/24/25
 
AN ORDINANCE REQUIRING MAINTENANCE OF THE PARKWAY AREA BY ADJACENT PROPERTY
OWNERS
 
WHEREAS, the Village of Green Oaks has a legitimate interest in maintaining the
safety, cleanliness, and aesthetic character of public rights-of-way, including
parkway areas between sidewalks and curb lines; and
 
WHEREAS, the Village Board finds it in the public interest to require adjacent
property owners to maintain those portions of the public parkway adjoining
their property to preserve sightlines for traffic safety and promote the
general welfare;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Green Oaks, Lake County, Illinois, as follows:
 
New Chapter 9 of Title 7 “Maintenance of Parkway Area By Adjacent Property
Owners” Green Oaks Code of Ordinances
 
SECTION I: There is herby established a new Chapter 9 of Title 7 of the Green
Oaks, Illinois, Code of Ordinances entitled “Maintenance of Parkway Area by
Adjacent Property Owners” to provide in Sections and subsections as follows:
 
Section 7-9-1   Definitions.
 
For purposes of this Chapter 9:

“Parkway” shall mean the portion of the public right-of-way located between the
edge of the street and the nearest edge of the public sidewalk (or property
line where no sidewalk exists), excluding any paved driveways, sidewalks, or
other public infrastructure.

“Adjacent property owner” shall mean the record owner of the private lot or
parcel of land which immediately abuts the public parkway.
 
Section 7-9-2 Parkway Maintenance Obligations.
 
Each adjacent property owner shall be responsible for maintaining the parkway
contiguous to their property in accordance with the following standards:
 
A. Mowing and Vegetation Control.
Grass and weeds within the parkway shall be maintained at a height not to
exceed eight (8) inches. The area shall be kept free of invasive or noxious
vegetation and trash or debris.
 
 
 
 
   
B. Sightline Obstructions.
 
No tree, shrub, bush, fence, structure, or other vegetation or object located
within the parkway shall obstruct the view of drivers or pedestrians. The
following clearance zones shall be maintained:
 
1.    Corner Lots: No vegetation or object over 30 inches in height shall be
permitted within a visibility triangle formed by measuring 25 feet from the
intersection of two property lines at a street corner.
 
2.    Sidewalk and Street Clearance: Tree limbs must be maintained to provide a
minimum clear vertical clearance of:
 
-7 feet over public sidewalks
-14 feet over streets or roadways
 
C. Safety Hazards Prohibited.
 
No condition in the parkway shall be permitted to pose a danger to pedestrians,
cyclists, or motorists, including but not limited to tripping hazards,
obstructions of signage, or concealment of fire hydrants.
 
Section 7-9-3   Enforcement and Penalties.
 
A. Notice and Cure. In the event of noncompliance, the Village may issue
written notice to the adjacent property owner directing corrective action
within ten (10) days.
 
B. Abatement by Village.
 
If the owner fails to take corrective action, the Village may perform the
necessary maintenance and assess the cost thereof to the property owner as a
lien or claim pursuant to applicable law; or the Village may initiate
proceedings under its administrative adjudication process.
 
C. Fine.
 
Violation of this Ordinance shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $75 per
day for each day the violation continues.
 
SECTION II: EFFECTIVE DATE
 
This Ordinance shall be effective from and after its passage, approval, and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
 
SECTION III:   Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed to affect any suit
or proceeding pending in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability
incurred, or any cause or causes of action arising, acquired or existing under
any act or ordinance or portion thereof hereby repealed or amended by this
Ordinance; nor shall any just or legal right, claim, penalty or remedy of any
character of the corporate authority existing on the effective date hereof be
lost, impaired or affected by this Ordinance.
 
SECTION IV:   All Ordinances or parts of Ordinances in conflict herewith are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby paused.
 
SECTION V:      If any provision, clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part
of this Ordinance or application thereof to any person, firm, corporation,
public agency or circumstance, shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, said judgment shall
not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of this ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons, firms, corporation, or
circumstances, but shall be confined in its operation to the provision, clause,
sentence, paragraph, section, or part thereof directly involved in the
controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered and to the person,
firm, corporation, or circumstances involved. It is hereby declared to be the
legislative intent of the Corporate Authorities that this ordinance would have
been adopted had such unconstitutional or invalid provision, clause, sentence,
paragraph, section, or part thereof not been included.
 
Passed this 24 th day of September, 2025.
                  Ayes:      Nays:      Absent/Abstain      
RICH GLOGOVSKY            _____      _____      _____
PETER FURLONG            _____      _____      _____
DAN SUGRUE            _____      _____      _____
KEVIN GRIFFIN                  _____      _____      _____
MAHDI SELLAMI          _____      _____      _____
JOHN D. FLAIG            _____      _____      _____
 
 
 
APPROVED:
 
By: Date:            
Village President
ATTEST:
 
By:                         
Village Clerk
 
Presented and read, or reading having been waived, at a duly convened meeting
of the Corporate Authorities on September 24, 2025.
 
I hereby certify that the above ordinance was published in pamphlet form on
September 24, 2025 as provided by law.
 
                                            
Village Clerk
 
26/74.39/ORDINANC/00048103.DOC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2025-O-09
Passed 09/24/25
 
AN ORDINANCE REGULATING EXTERIOR PROPERTY
MAINTENANCE FOR RESIDENTIAL PREMISES
WHEREAS, the President and Board of Trustees find that the accumulation of
junk, debris, and inoperable vehicles on residential premises creates harborage
for rodents, insects, and other vermin, thereby constituting a hazard to the
public health and safety of Village residents; and
WHEREAS, the President and Board of Trustees further find that the accumulation
and outdoor storage of junk, debris, and inoperable vehicles negatively impact
the appearance and desirability of residential neighborhoods, thereby
diminishing property values and impairing the overall tax base of the
community; and
WHEREAS , the President and Board of Trustees further find that the presence of
junk materials, abandoned equipment, and inoperable vehicles creates an
attractive nuisance to children, posing risks of injury, entrapment, or
exposure to hazardous substances; and
WHEREAS, the President and Board of Trustees further find that the outdoor
accumulation of combustible materials, rubbish, and debris increases the risk
of fire and creates obstacles to safe emergency access, thereby endangering the
lives and property of Village residents; and
WHEREAS, the President and Board of Trustees further find that the maintenance
of orderly, safe, and sanitary exterior premises contributes to the overall
welfare of the community, preserves neighborhood character, and protects the
enjoyment and use of private property by residents, and
WHEREAS, the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Green Oaks find
that the public health, safety and welfare require the regulation of exterior
property maintenance to preserve the appearance, value, and safety of
residential neighborhoods.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Green Oaks, Lake County, Illinois, as follows:
SECTION I:    There is hereby created a new Chapter 6-4 entitled “Exterior
Property Maintenance” to Title 4 of the Green Oaks Code of Ordinances to
provide in Sections and Subsections as follows:
Section 6-4-1. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this Chapter 6-4 is to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of the residents of the Village by prohibiting the accumulation of junk,
debris, inoperable or unlicensed motor vehicles, and the outdoor storage of
materials on residential properties.
Section 6-4-2. DEFINITIONS.
For the purposes of this Chapter 6-4, the following terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them:
“Junk” means discarded, unused, or unusable materials, including appliances,
furniture, scrap metal, and similar items.
“Debris” means refuse, rubbish, or other waste materials scattered or stored
outdoors.
“Inoperable motor vehicle” means a motor vehicle that is not capable of being
driven in its existing condition, including vehicles without valid license
plates or registration.
“Outdoor storage” means the keeping of building materials, equipment,
machinery, or other items not customarily used outdoors on residential
premises.
Section 6-4-3. PROHIBITIONS.
A. No owner or occupant of residential premises shall allow or suffer the
accumulation of junk or debris upon the exterior premises of such property.
B. No owner or occupant of residential premises shall permit the parking or
storage of inoperable or unlicensed motor vehicles on the exterior premises of
residential property, except within a fully enclosed structure.
C. No owner or occupant of residential premises shall maintain outdoor storage
of building materials, equipment, machinery, or similar items on the exterior
premises, except where such materials are temporarily stored during ongoing
construction under a valid building permit.
Section 6-4-4. ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
A. Inspection Authority: The Village Building Commissioner or Code Enforcement
Officer is authorized to enter upon any residential property at reasonable
times to determine compliance with this Chapter.
B. Notice of Violation: If a violation is found, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall issue a written Notice of Violation to the property owner and occupant,
specifying the nature of the violation, the corrective action required, and the
compliance deadline.
C. Compliance Period: The property owner or occupant shall have not less than
seven (7) days, nor more than thirty (30) days, as determined by the Code
Enforcement Officer, to remedy the violation, unless immediate action is
required to protect public health or safety.
D. Administrative Hearing: If the violation is not corrected within the
compliance period, the matter shall be referred to the Village’s administrative
adjudication system for hearing and determination. The owner or occupant shall
have the opportunity to present evidence and testimony.
E. Abatement by Village: If the violation remains uncorrected after a final
administrative order, the Village may, upon ten (10) days’ written notice,
cause the violation to be abated, including the removal of junk, debris, or
inoperable vehicles, with all costs assessed against the property owner and
recorded as a lien against the property.
F. Penalties: Any violation of this Chapter 6-4 shall be subject to fines of
not less than $100 or more than $750 for each offense, and each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
SECTION II:     Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed to affect any suit
or proceeding pending in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability
incurred, or any cause or causes of action arising, acquired or existing under
any act or ordinance or portion thereof hereby repealed or amended by this
ordinance; nor shall any just or legal right, claim, penalty or remedy of any
character of the corporate authority existing on the effective date hereof be
lost, impaired or affected by this Ordinance.
SECTION III:   If any provision, clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part
of this ordinance or application thereof to any person, firm, corporation,
public agency or circumstance, shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, said judgment shall
not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of this ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons, firms, corporation, or
circumstances, but shall be confined in its operation to the provision, clause,
sentence, paragraph, section, or part thereof directly involved in the
controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered and to the person,
firm, corporation, or circumstances involved. It is hereby declared to be the
legislative intent of the Corporate Authorities that this ordinance would have
been adopted had such unconstitutional or invalid provision, clause, sentence,
paragraph, section, or part thereof not been included.
SECTION IV:   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and approval and publication in pamphlet form as required by law.
Passed this 24 th day of September, 2025.
                  Ayes:      Nays:      Absent/Abstain      
RICH GLOGOVSKY            _____      _____      _____
PETER FURLONG            _____      _____      _____
DAN SUGRUE            _____      _____      _____
KEVIN GRIFFIN                  _____      _____      _____
MAHDI SELLAMI          _____      _____      _____
JOHN D. FLAIG            _____      _____      _____
APPROVED:
By: Date:             Village President
 
 
ATTEST:
By:                          
Village Clerk
 
Presented and read, or reading having been waived, at a duly convened meeting
of the Corporate Authorities on September 24, 2025.
I hereby certify that the above ordinance was published in pamphlet form on
September 25, 2025 as provided by law.
                                            
Village Clerk
 
26/74.39/EXTMAINT/00048212.DOCX
 
 
 
 
 
2025-O-10
Passed 09/24/25
 
(certified copy sent to IDOR on 09/25/25)
 
AN ORDINANCE IMPOSING A NON-HOME RULE MUNICIPAL
RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX AND
A NON-HOME RULE MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
 
WHEREAS, the Village of Green Oaks, Lake County, Illinois ("Village") is a non-
home rule Illinois municipality pursuant to the Constitution of the State of
Illinois of 1970, as amended; and,
WHEREAS, the Village is authorized under Section 8-11-1.3 and 8-11-1.4 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.3 and 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.4, to impose a
non-home rule municipal retailers’ occupation tax and a non-home rule municipal
service occupation tax; and,
 
WHEREAS, the Village of Green Oaks Code of Ordinances provides for the
imposition of a Retailers' Occupation Tax and a Service Occupation Tax in
Sections 2-3-1 and 2-3-2, which is not currently collected by the Village and
which language is outdated due to Illinois law prior to Public Act 107-0381
requiring a referendum prior to the imposition of such taxes; and,
 
WHEREAS, through Public Act 107-0381, the Illinois Municipal Code was amended
to allow non-home rule municipalities to implement said taxes without a
referendum; and,
 
WHEREAS, proceeds generated must be used for public infrastructure or property
tax relief as defined at Section 8-11-1.2 of the Illinois Municipal Code or for
additional uses as may be otherwise authorized by law; and,
 
WHEREAS, the President and Board of Trustees of the Village find that it
appropriate, necessary, and is in the best interests of the Village to impose
such taxes at the rate of one percent (1%) on all eligible sales and services
within the Village.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Green Oaks, Lake County, Illinois, as follows:
 
SECTION I:   RECITALS ADOPTED.
 
The recitals set forth above are incorporated into this Section I by this
reference as findings of the Village Board of Trustees.
 
SECTION II:    AMENDMENTS TO CODE OF ORDINANCES.
 
The following provisions within Section 2-3-1 Chapter 3 of Title 3 of the Code
of Ordinances of the Village of Green Oaks entitled “MUNICIPAL RETAILERS'
OCCUPATION TAX” is hereby amended to add the following language, with double
underline (insert) denoting inserted language, and to delete the following
language, with strikeout (delete) denoting deleted language:
 
2-3-1: IMPOSITION OF NON-HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX.
 
 
A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in this Village at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business while these provisions are in effect, in accordance
with the provisions of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-1. A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible
personal property titled or registered with an agency of this state's
government, at retail in this municipality at the rate of one percent (1%) of
the gross receipts from such eligible sales made in the course of such
business The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the
provisions of Section 8-11-1.3 and of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-
11-1.3).
 
B. Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the Village
shall timely file on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report
required by to the Illinois Department of Revenue. required by section three of
"An Act in Relation to a Tax Upon Persons to Purchasers for Use or
Consumption", approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
 
C. Payment of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the
State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed, or as otherwise
provided by law. on account of the receipts from sales of tangible personal
property during the preceding month.
 
SECTION III: The following provisions within Section 2-3-2 of Chapter 3 of
Title 3 of the Code of Ordinances of the Village of Green Oaks entitled
“MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX” is hereby amended to add the following
language, with double underline (insert) denoting inserted language, and to
delete the following language, with strikeout (delete) denoting deleted
language:
 
2-3-2:  IMPOSITION OF NON-HOME RULE MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
 
A. Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this
Municipality in the business of making sales of service at the rate of one
percent (1%) of the gross receipts received from such business, in accordance
with the provisions of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-5. A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%) of the
selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by such servicemen
as an incident to a sale of service. The imposition of this tax is in
accordance with and subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-1.4 of the
Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.4).
 
B. Report Required: Every serviceman required to account for Municipal Service
Occupation Tax for the benefit of this Municipality shall timely file on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report required by to the State
Department of Revenue. required by section three of "An Act in Relation to a
Tax Upon Persons to Purchasers for Use or Consumption", approved June 28, 1933,
as amended.
 
C. Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the
Illinois Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed, or as
otherwise provided by law.
 
SECTION IV: COLLECTION AND ADMINISTRATION BY DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE.
 
The taxes imposed by this Ordinance, and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Illinois Department of Revenue. The Department of Revenue shall have full power
to administer and enforce the provisions of this Ordinance.
 
SECTION V: LIMITATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
 
The taxes imposed by this Ordinance shall not be applicable to the sales of
tangible personal property which are exempted therefrom by law.
 
SECTION VI: EFFECTIVE DATE.
 
This Ordinance shall take effect on: (i) the first day of July next following
the adoption and filing of this Ordinance with the Department of Revenue, if
filed on or before the preceding April 1st; or, (ii) the first day of January
next following the adoption and filing of this Ordinance with the Department of
Revenue, if filed on or before the preceding October 1st.
 
SECTION VII: LIMITATION ON USE OF PROCEEDS. 
 
The Village shall only expend the proceeds generated from any tax imposed by
virtue of this Ordinance on: (a) expenditures related to “municipal roads and
streets, access roads, bridges, and sidewalks; waste disposal systems; and
water and sewer line extensions, water distribution and purification
facilities, storm water drainage and retention facilities, and sewage treatment
facilities; (b) efforts to “reduce the levy for real estate taxes or avoid an
increase in the levy for real estate taxes that would otherwise have been
required” by the Village; or (c) any other or further permitted uses under
Section 8-11-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-1) as may now or
hereafter be authorized therein.
 
SECTION VIII: QUALIFIED EXEMPTION OF AVIATION FUEL FROM BOTH TAXES. 
 
No provision of this Ordinance shall be interpreted to impose any tax on
aviation fuel, as defined in Section 3 of the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act (35
ILCS 120/3), unless the proceeds of said tax are expended for airport-related
purposes, as that term is defined in Section 6z-20.2 of the State Finance Act
(30 ILCS 105/6z-20.2), and said expenditures are made in compliance with the
certification requirements for airport-related purposes under Section 2-22 of
the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act (35 ILCS 120/2–22).
 
SECTION IX:   Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed to affect any suit
or proceeding pending in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability
incurred, or any cause or causes of action arising, acquired or existing under
any act or ordinance or portion thereof hereby repealed or amended by this
Ordinance; nor shall any just or legal right, claim, penalty or remedy of any
character of the corporate authority existing on the effective date hereof be
lost, impaired or affected by this Ordinance.
 
SECTION X:      All Ordinances or parts of Ordinances in conflict herewith are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby paused.
 
SECTION XI:   If any provision, clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part
of this Ordinance or application thereof to any person, firm, corporation,
public agency or circumstance, shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, said judgment shall
not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of this ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons, firms, corporation, or
circumstances, but shall be confined in its operation to the provision, clause,
sentence, paragraph, section, or part thereof directly involved in the
controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered and to the person,
firm, corporation, or circumstances involved. It is hereby declared to be the
legislative intent of the Corporate Authorities that this ordinance would have
been adopted had such unconstitutional or invalid provision, clause, sentence,
paragraph, section, or part thereof not been included.
 
SECTION XII:   That the Village Attorney is hereby directed to file a certified
copy of this Ordinance with the Illinois Department of Revenue on or before
October 1, 2025.
 
Passed this 24 th day of September, 2025.
 
                  Ayes:      Nays:      Absent/Abstain      
RICH GLOGOVSKY            _____      _____      _____
PETER FURLONG            _____      _____      _____
DAN SUGRUE            _____      _____      _____
KEVIN GRIFFIN                  _____      _____      _____
MAHDI SELLAMI          _____      _____      _____
JOHN D. FLAIG            _____      _____      _____
 
 
APPROVED:
 
By: Date:            
Village President
ATTEST:
 
By:                         
Village Clerk
 
Presented and read, or reading having been waived, at a duly convened meeting
of the Corporate Authorities on September 24, 2025.
 
I hereby certify that the above ordinance was published in pamphlet form on
September 25, 2025 as provided by law.
 
                                            
Village Clerk
 
26/74.39/ORDINANC/00048208.DOC
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 88-16
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE VILLAGE CODE OF
   THE VILLAGE OF GREEN OAKS, ILLINOIS
   WHEREAS, the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Green Oaks
have heretofore employed Sterling Codifiers, Inc. to prepare a codification of
the ordinances of the Village; and,
   WHEREAS, Sterling Codifiers have submitted a Village Code which has been
reviewed by the President and Board of Trustees, and they are of the opinion
that the said Code fairly and reasonably codifies all of the existing
ordinances of the Village other than those relating to tax levies, special
services areas, annexations and other similar special situations; and,
   WHEREAS, the President and Board of Trustees deem it in the best interests
of the Village to adopt the said codification as the Village Code of Green
Oaks, Illinois;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT AND IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF
TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF GREEN OAKS, COUNTY OF LAKE, STATE OF ILLINOIS, AS
FOLLOWS:
   SECTION 1. The loose leaf document, entitled "Village Code of Green Oaks,
1988" consisting of nine Titles and an Index thereto, a copy whereof is
attached to this Ordinance, is hereby adopted as the Village Code of the
Village of Green Oaks.
   SECTION 2. The Village Code herein adopted, as hereafter amended from time
to time, shall be the Code of the Village and the provisions thereof shall
supersede the terms and provisions of any ordinances of the Village heretofore
adopted in so far as there is any conflict between said Code and the said
heretofore adopted ordinances.
   SECTION 3. Notwithstanding the adoption of this Village Code, the terms and
provisions of any ordinance of the Village heretofore adopted shall remain in
full force and effect in so far as the said Code does not deal with the topic
thereof or conflict with the terms thereof.
   SECTION 4. That all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith
be and the same are hereby repealed.
   SECTION 5. That this ordinance shall be published by authority of the
Village Authorities in pamphlet form and placed on file in the office of the
Village Clerk, and the Village Clerk shall record the passage hereof in the
Ordinance Record Book.
   SECTION 6. That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and
after its passage, approval and publication according to law.
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 28th DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 1988.
AYES:   6
NAYES:   0
ABSENT:   0
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Board of Trustees, this Village Code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official Village Code of Green Oaks. This
Village Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the GREEN OAKS VILLAGE
CODE, and it is hereby published by authority of the Board of Trustees and
shall be kept up to date as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter under the direction of the Village Attorney, acting for
said Village Board of Trustees. Any reference to the number of any section
contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same
number, its appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty
clause relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is
made to this Village Code by title in any legal document.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Village Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the Village of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Code.
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Village Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Village Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be forwarded to the codifiers
and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its proper
place in each copy of this Village Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this
Village Code.
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Village Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Village Board. The Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this Village Code shall make
every effort to maintain this Code in an up to date and efficient manner. He
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the Village
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Village and shall
be returned to the office of the Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
Village Board. (1988 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this
Village Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Village
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Village; zoning variations; zoning district special uses; special assessments;
special service areas; designation of depositories; and all special ordinances.
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be replaced by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as
this Village Code may contain provisions for such matters, in which case this
Village Code shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in
respect to such provisions only.
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to
the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable.
If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Village Code.
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Village Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Village Board of
Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1988 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this Village Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this Village Code by words importing the singular
number only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and
females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included;
provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section
of this Village Code which contains any express provision excluding such
construction or where the subject matter or content may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Village has been
changed in the content of this Village Code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the Village's ordinances is not
meant to amend the passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the Board of Trustees of the Village.
CODE: The Municipal Code of Green Oaks, Illinois, and amendments thereto.
COUNTY: The County of Lake, State of Illinois.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the
Village of Green Oaks".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the Village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: See Village President.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the Village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the Village
of Green Oaks".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of
a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right of interest
therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, this term shall be understood
to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
STATE: The State of Illinois.
STREET: This term shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
VILLAGE: The Village of Green Oaks, County of Lake, State of Illinois.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The President of the Village may be referred to as "Mayor"
or "President" of the Village.
WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: These terms may include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to
write, by his proper mark.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Village Code are intended as
mere catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed
or taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify
or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1988 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this Code,
where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for any offense 1 . (Ord. 97-03, 3-26-
1997)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this Chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this Code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless
otherwise specifically provided in this Code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this Chapter
shall apply. (1988 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1988 Code)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election, Term of Office
1-5-2: Duties
1-5-3: Designation of Duties
1-5-4: Bond, Oath, Salary
1-5-5: President Pro Tem
1-5-6: Voting Powers
1-5-1: ELECTION, TERM OF OFFICE:
The Village President shall be elected for a term of four (4) years and he
shall be the President of the Board of Trustees as is provided by statute 1 .
(Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3-5-1.
1-5-2: DUTIES:
The Village President shall be the chief executive officer of the Village and
he shall perform all duties that may be required of him by statute or
ordinance. He shall:
   A.   Have supervision over all executive officers of the Village;
   B.   Have the power and the authority to inspect all books and records kept
by any Village officer or employee at any reasonable time; and
   C.   Appoint all Village officers with the advice and consent of the Board
of Trustees. (Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
1-5-3: DESIGNATION OF DUTIES:
Whenever there is a question as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officer of the Village, this shall be settled by the President. He
shall have the power to delegate to any such officer any duty which is to be
performed when no specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
1-5-4: BOND, OATH, SALARY:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the President shall give a bond
with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees conditioned upon the
faithful performance of his duties, in the amount as required in Section
1-8-6 of this Code or such higher sum as may be directed by the Board of
Trustees. He shall take the oath of office prescribed by statute and shall
receive such compensation as may be set, from time to time, by the Board 1 .
(Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-8-7A of this Code.
1-5-5: PRESIDENT PRO TEM:
During a temporary absence or disability of the Village President, the Board of
Trustees shall elect one of its number to act as President Pro Tem, who during
the absence or disability of the President shall perform the duties pertaining
to the office. (Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
1-5-6: VOTING POWERS:
The Village President shall cast a vote at Village Board meetings only in the
event of a tie; or where one-half (1/2) of the Trustees elected have voted in
favor of an ordinance, resolution or motion; or when more than a majority vote
of the corporate authorities is required by ordinance or by State statute. The
President Pro Tem, however, shall cast his vote on all questions on which a
roll-call vote is taken, in his capacity as a Trustee. (Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
CHAPTER 6
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election, Functions
1-6-2: Oath, Salary
1-6-3: Meetings
1-6-4: Presiding Officer
1-6-5: Quorum
1-6-6: Standing, Special Committees
1-6-6-1: Appointment, Membership
1-6-6-2: Duties
1-6-6-3: Meetings
1-6-6-4: Standing Committees Designated
1-6-7: Rules Of Order, Procedure
1-6-7-1: Robert's Rules Of Order
1-6-7-2: Order Of Business
1-6-7-3: Duties Of Presiding Officer
1-6-7-4: Duties Of Members
1-6-7-5: Visitors
1-6-7-6: Procedure
1-6-8: Rescinded Action
1-6-9: Suspension Of Rules
1-6-10: Disorderly Conduct Of Members; Censure, Expulsion
1-6-1: ELECTION, FUNCTIONS:
The board of trustees (hereinafter, the board), consisting of six (6) members,
shall be elected to office for a four (4) year term as is provided by statute 1
. The board shall be the legislative department of the village government, and
shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be delegated to it by
statute. The term corporate authorities shall refer to the board of trustees
and the village president, acting together by vote. (Ord. 80-06, 5-28-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-5-1 et seq.
1-6-2: OATH, SALARY:
The members of the board shall take the oath of office prescribed by statute,
and shall receive such compensation as may be from time to time provided by
ordinance 1 . (Ord. 80-06, 5-28-1980)
 
Notes
1 2. See subsection
  1-8-7C of this title.
1-6-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular monthly meeting of the board shall be
held on the fourth Wednesday of each month beginning at seven thirty o'clock
(7:30) P.M., and no notice of such regular meeting shall be required. The
meeting place of the said board shall be at the village hall of the village of
Green Oaks, unless otherwise ordered by the board; provided that if such
meeting date should fall on a legal holiday, the meeting shall be held on the
following Wednesday.
   B.   Adjourned Regular Meetings: Should the trustees not dispose of all
pending village business on the regular meeting date, an adjourned regular
meeting may be held on a date set by the board through motion.
   C.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the president of
the village or any three (3) trustees upon at least forty eight (48) hours'
notice to all members and the president. Notice of the special meeting shall be
posted at the regular meeting place at least forty eight (48) hours before such
meeting.
   D.   Open To The Public: All meetings of the board including special and
adjourned meetings, except executive sessions exempt by statute, shall be open
to the public, as is required by statute 1 .
   E.   Conduct Of Meetings: No person other than the president or a member of
the board shall address that body at any time at any regular or special meeting
except upon consent of a majority of the members present. The meetings shall be
conducted under the rules of order set forth in section
1-6-7 of this chapter.
   F.   Calling Meetings To Order: Every regular or special meeting of the
board of trustees shall be called to order within twenty (20) minutes of the
time set for such meeting. In the absence of the president, the village clerk,
or a member of the board may call the meeting to order and call the roll of the
members. If a quorum is present, the clerk shall ask for election by majority
vote of a president pro tem to conduct the meeting as presiding officer. If no
quorum is present, the members present shall be competent to adjourn the board
meeting or recess the board meeting by a majority vote to a time certain prior
to the next regularly scheduled meeting.
   G.   Disturbing Meetings Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
disturb any meeting of the board or any committee thereof. (Ord. 2008-O-10, 8-
27-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
1-6-4: PRESIDING OFFICER:
The village president shall be the presiding officer of all regular and special
meetings of the board and at all times when the board meets as a committee of
the whole. (Ord. 80-06, 5-28-1980)
1-6-5: QUORUM:
A majority of the Trustees elected, or three (3) Trustees and the Village
President, shall constitute a quorum to do business, but no ordinance shall be
passed except upon a favorable vote of a majority of the corporate authorities.
(Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
1-6-6: STANDING, SPECIAL COMMITTEES:
1-6-6-1: APPOINTMENT, MEMBERSHIP:
All standing and special committees shall consist of three (3) members,
including the chairman, unless the Board directs otherwise. All committees
shall be appointed by the Village President. (Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
1-6-6-2: DUTIES:
Any matters not specified herein may be directed to the most appropriate
standing committee by the President, or special committees which may be created
from time to time by the Board to perform such duties as may be directed. (Ord.
80-06, 5-28-80)
1-6-6-3: MEETINGS:
Each standing committee shall establish a regular monthly meeting date, on a
day of the month other than Saturday or Sunday, which shall be published
annually by the Village Clerk and such other special meetings as the chairman
or two (2) committee members shall call. Notice of special meetings shall be
given by posting at the Oak Grove School at least two (2) days before the
meeting. In the event there are no matters proposed to be on the agenda of a
regular meeting five (5) days before the meeting date, the chairman forthwith
may cancel the meeting by notifying the Clerk and the committee members and
causing a notice to be posted at the Oak Grove School. There shall be no quorum
requirements for a committee meeting but any reports or recommendations made by
concurrence of less than two (2) members shall be identified as a minority
action of the committee. (Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80; 1988 Code)
1-6-6-4: STANDING COMMITTEES DESIGNATED:
The following shall be the standing committees of the Board which shall have
the duties as set forth herein:
   A.   Annexation, Planning, Zoning Committee: The Annexation, Planning,
Zoning Committee shall:
      1.   Make the short- and long-term plans for the growth and development
of the Village in accordance with the desires and in the best interests of the
residents of the Village;
      2.   Evaluate recommendations made to the Board by the Plan Commission
relating to those matters that properly come before the Plan Commission;
      3.   Consider proposed annexations to the Village and recommend actions
to be taken by the Village;
      4.   Review proposed subdivisions, zoning variations, amendments to
zoning ordinances and to the Comprehensive Village Plan.
   B.   Building Committee: The Building Committee shall:
      1.   Review the Village building regulations and codes and recommend such
changes and additions as may be deemed necessary to provide a safe living
environment for the residents of the Village;
      2.   Review the enforcement of building codes;
      3.   Review all matters relating to public health and sanitation and
Zoning Ordinance enforcement;
      4.   Review all matters relating to the permitting process;
      5.   Coordinate and oversee the work of the Building Commission;
      6.   Coordinate and oversee the work of the Enforcement Officer.
   C.   Finance Committee: The Finance Committee shall:
      1.   Plan and implement programs and/or studies for maintaining the
financial health of the Village, including the budgeting of anticipated costs
of operation of the various departments of the Village, review and modification
of programs and cost with the responsible departments and the recommendation of
funding or source of revenue to provide for the programs;
      2.   Review and make recommendations concerning expenditures,
collections, savings and investments;
      3.   Review and oversee the work of the Treasurer and Collector;
      4.   File all necessary County, State and Federal financial statements;
      5.   Review all audits required to be made;
      6.   Review all matters relating to any licensing process in the Village.
   D.   Public Affairs Committee: The Public Affairs Committee shall:
      1.   Review the conditions affecting the general health, welfare and
safety of the residents and recommend such actions as are needed to correct any
problems;
      2.   Develop and implement a system of communication between the Village
Board, the residents and other governmental bodies such as schools and other
municipalities;
      3.   Review all matters relating to civil defense, emergency programs,
law enforcement and the general enforcement of ordinances;
      4.   Investigate the insurance requirements of the Village, recommend
insurance coverages and secure bids for such coverages as may be required by
statute or ordinance;
      5.   Prepare and edit the newsletter;
      6.   Review and advise the Board on any relevant legal or health matters
affecting the Village.
   E.   Public Works Committee: The Public Works Committee shall:
      1.   Plan and implement programs for the maintenance, improvement and
protection of physical assets of the Village utilities, including sanitary
sewers which are the responsibility of the Village, pumping and/or lift
stations and associated distribution systems associated with sanitary sewers,
public buildings and grounds, potable water, electricity, telephone, gas and
cable utilities;
      2.   Review all matters relating to stormwater drainage systems and
sanitary sewer permit allotments;
      3.   Coordinate and oversee recycling and waste hauling in the Village;
      4.   Coordinate cleanup of debris, leaves and brush in the Village;
      5.   Oversee and coordinate land resource management of the Village;
      6.   Develop and maintain trail system in the Village.
   F.   Roads And Streets Committee: The Roads and Streets Committee shall:
      1.   Plan and implement maintenance, protection and improvement programs
for roads, streets, bridges, ditches and swales within public right-of-way for
the Village, including, but not limited to, the development of priorities for
roadway, review of proposals from engineering advisors, participation in
selection of contractors, snowplowing, crack filling, grass cutting and review
of both physical and financial results;
      2.   Determine the need or removal of signs in the Village and the
maintenance of the signs;
      3.   Oversee the sale and enforcement of Village stickers;
      4.   Coordinate and oversee the work of the Village Road Superintendent;
      5.   Review and advise the Board concerning traffic movement and
automobile violations. (Ord. 93-23, 5-26-1993)
   G.   Tax Increment Finance (TIF) Committee: The TIF Committee shall consist
of all Trustees and the Mayor. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the
TIF Committee and shall be the Chief Administrative Officer of the TIF
District. The TIF Committee shall:
      1.   Foster communications between staff and the Village Board to
expedite the efficient approval of TIF Assistance Applications that meet the
Village's stated goals as expressed in the redevelopment plan and in adopted
policies.
      2.   Be a two-way communications conduit between staff and the Board of
Trustees for the continuing development and implementation of policies
pertaining to TIF marketing, development, and project monitoring.
      3.   Develop, with the assistance of staff, and to the extent possible,
uniform reporting formats on matters to be reported to the committee and to the
Village Board.
      4.   Additional duties and responsibilities of the TIF Committee shall
be:
         a.   Recommend to the Mayor and Board of Trustees staffing levels and
staff assistance needed by the committee to properly perform its duties and
responsibilities.
         b.   Review redevelopment project proposals and redevelopment project
progress within the redevelopment area; the committee should be prepared to
report on any significant issues at a Board of Trustees meeting and shall
otherwise keep the Mayor and Board of Trustees informed of the activities of
the TIF Committee.
         c.   Review and qualify, with the assistance of staff, all
applications for redevelopment project financial assistance for presentation
and recommendations to the Board of Trustees for final decision on any
redevelopment project assistance request.
         d.   Work with staff in analyzing and then recommending to the Board
of Trustees changes, modifications or revisions to the Village policies,
procedures, and forms pertaining to the implementation of the redevelopment
plan.
         e.   Review and recommend to the Board of Trustees contracts with
consultants and inter-governmental agreements pertaining to the implementation
of the redevelopment project plan.
         f.   Such other redevelopment project area related assignments as may
be referred to the TIF Committee by the Mayor or Board of Trustees.
      5.   Regular meetings of the TIF Committee shall be held concurrently
with the first Committee of the Whole meeting of each month but may, for good
cause, be scheduled to another date during any month upon the determination of
the Mayor. Additional meetings may be scheduled as needed for the business of
the TIF Committee. All TIF Committee meetings are subject to the requirements
of the Illinois Open Meetings Act. (Ord. 2019-O-12, 5-22-2019)
1-6-7: RULES OF ORDER, PROCEDURE:
1-6-7-1: ROBERT'S RULES OF ORDER:
The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published edition
of "Robert's Rules of Order" shall govern the Board in all cases to which they
are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with the special rules of
this Board, or in conflict with any of the rules and regulations contained
within this section
1-6-7. (Ord. 60-05, 5-23-1960; amd. Ord. 80-06, 5-28-1980)
1-6-7-2: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The order of business of the Board shall be as follows:
   1.   Call to order by President or Clerk;
   2.   Roll call, establish quorum;
   3.   Prayer;
   4.   Presentation and approval of minutes of previous meeting;
   5.   Report of President;
   6.   Reports of standing committees;
   7.   Reports of special committees;
   8.   Reports of boards and commissions;
   9.   Communications, petitions, resolutions, orders, ordinances, bills;
   10.   Old business;
   11.   Public discussion or comments from the floor;
   12.   New business;
   13.   Adjournment.
(Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
1-6-7-3: DUTIES OF PRESIDING OFFICER:
The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum and may speak to points
of order in preference to other members, and shall decide all questions of
order subject to appeal. In case of any disturbances or disorderly conduct, the
presiding officer shall have the power to require the chamber to be cleared.
(Ord. 60-05, 3-23-60)
1-6-7-4: DUTIES OF MEMBERS:
While the presiding officer is putting the question, no member shall walk
across or out of the council chamber. Every member, previous to speaking,
making a motion or seconding the same, shall address himself to the presiding
officer and say: "Mr. President", and shall not proceed with his remarks until
recognized and named by the Chair. He shall confine himself to the question
under debate, avoiding personalities and refraining from impugning the motives
of any other member's argument or vote. When two (2) or more members rise at
the same time, the presiding officer shall name the member who is first to
speak. (Ord. 60-05, 3-23-60)
1-6-7-5: VISITORS:
No person other than a member of the Board of Trustees shall address that body,
except with the consent of a majority of the members present. (Ord. 60-05, 3-
23-60)
1-6-7-6: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Presentation of New Business: When a member wishes to present a
communication, petition, order, resolution, ordinance or other original matter,
he shall send it to the desk of the Clerk who shall read such matter when
reached in its proper order.
   B.   Debate: No member shall speak more than once on the same question,
except by unanimous consent, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so; provided, however, that the
proponent of the matter under consideration or the chairman of the committee
whose report is under consideration, as the case may be, shall have the right
to open and close debate. No member shall speak longer than ten (10) minutes at
any one time, except by consent of the Board; and in closing debate on any
question, as above provided, the speaker shall be limited to five (5) minutes,
except by special consent of the Board. While a member is speaking, no member
shall hold any private discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   C.   Call of Members to Order: A member, when called to order by the Chair,
shall thereupon discontinue speaking and take his seat and the order or ruling
of the Chair shall be binding and conclusive, subject only to the right of
appeal.
   D.   Appeals from Decisions of the Chair: Any member may appeal to the Board
of Trustees from a ruling of the Chair and, if the appeal is seconded, the
member making the appeal may briefly state his reason for the same, and the
Chair may briefly explain his ruling; but there shall be no debate on the
appeal and no other member shall participate in the discussion. The Chair shall
then put the question. "Shall the decision of the Chair be sustained?" If a
majority of the members present vote "No", the decision of the Chair shall be
overruled; otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   E.   Question of Personal Privilege: The right of a member to address the
Board on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which
his integrity, character or motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
   F.   Voting: Every member who shall be present when a question is stated
from the Chair shall vote thereon, unless excused by the Board, or unless he is
personally interested in the question, in which case he shall not vote.
   G.   Special Order of Business: Any matter before the Board may be set down
as a special order of business at a time certain if two-thirds (2/3%) of the
Trustees present vote in the affirmative, but not otherwise.
   H.   Seconding of Motions Required, Written Motions: No motion shall be put
or debated in the Board of Trustees or in committee unless it be seconded. When
a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before a
debate, and every motion in the Board of Trustees, except motions of procedure,
shall be reduced to writing, if required by a member, and the proposer of the
motion shall be entitled to the floor.
   I.   Withdrawal of Motions: After a motion or resolution is stated by the
presiding officer, it shall be deemed to be in possession of the Board, but it
may be withdrawn at any time before decision, by consent of the Board.
   J.   Division of Questions: If any question under consideration contains
several distinct propositions, the Board by a majority vote of the members
present may divide such question.
   K.   Record of Motions: In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered
in the Journal, the name of the member moving the same shall be entered also,
as well as the name of the member seconding the same.
   L.   Taking, Entering the Votes; Explanations of Votes not Permitted: The
yeas and nays upon any question shall be taken and entered in the Journal. When
the Clerk has commenced to call the roll of the Board of Trustees for the
taking of a vote by yeas and nays all debate on the question before the Board
shall be deemed concluded and during the taking of the vote no member shall be
permitted to explain his vote but shall respond to the calling of his name by
the Clerk by answering yea or nay, as the case may be.
   M.   Announcement, Changes of Votes: The result of all votes by yeas and
nays shall not be announced by the Clerk, but shall be handed by him to the
chairman for announcement, and no vote shall be changed after the tally list
has passed from the hands of the Clerk.
   N.   Precedence of Motions: When a question is under debate, the following
motions shall be in order and shall have precedence over each other in order,
as listed:
      1.   To adjourn to a day certain;
      2.   To adjourn;
      3.   To take a recess;
      4.   To lay on the table;
      5.   The previous question;
      6.   To refer;
      7.   To amend
      8.   To defer or postpone to a time certain;
      9.   To defer or postpone (without reference to time);
      10.   To defer or postpone indefinitely;
Numbers 2, 4, and 5 are to be decided without debate.
   O.   Motions to Adjourn: A motion to adjourn the Board of Trustees meeting
shall always be in order except:
      1.   When a member is in possession of the floor;
      2.   While the yeas and nays are being called;
      3.   When the members are voting;
      4.   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; and
      5.   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
A motion simply to adjourn shall not be subject to amendment or debate, but a
motion to adjourn to a time certain shall be. The Board may at any time adjourn
over one or more regular meetings, on a vote of a majority of all the Trustees
authorized by law to be elected.
   P.   Previous Question: When the previous question is moved on the main
question, and seconded, it shall be put in this form: "Shall the main question
now be put?" If such motion be carried, all further amendment and all further
motions and debate shall be excluded, and the question put without delay, upon
the pending amendments in proper order, and then upon the main question.
   Q.   Motions to Lay on the Table and to Take from the Table:
      1.   A motion simply to lay a question on the table shall not be
debatable, but a motion to lay on the table and publish, or with any other
condition, shall be subject to amendment and debate.
      2.   A motion to take any motion or other proposition from the table may
be proposed at the same meeting at which such motion or proposition was laid
upon the table, provided two-thirds (2/3) of the Trustees vote therefor.
      3.   A motion to lay any particular motion or proposition on the table
shall apply to that motion or proposition only.
      4.   An amendment to the main question or other pending question may be
laid on the table and neither the main question nor such other pending question
shall be affected thereby.
   R.   Indefinite Postponement, Motion to Defer or Postpone without Reference
to Time: When consideration of a motion or other proposition is postponed
indefinitely, it shall not again be taken up at the same meeting. A motion to
postpone indefinitely shall not open the main question to debate. A motion to
defer or postpone, without any reference to time, shall not be construed as a
motion to postpone indefinitely, but shall be considered to be of the same
general nature, and to possess the same general attributes so far as applicable
under these rules, as a motion to postpone indefinitely or to a time certain.
   S.   Motion to Refer: A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take
precedence over a similar motion to refer to a special committee.
   T.   Motion to Amend: A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but
one to amend an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained. An
amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order, but an
amendment relating to a different subject shall not be in order. On an
amendment to "strike out and insert", the paragraph to be amended shall first
be read as it stands, then the words proposed to be stricken out, then those to
be inserted, and finally the paragraph as it will stand if so amended shall be
read. An amendment to the main question or other pending question may be
referred to a committee and neither the main question nor such other pending
question shall be affected thereby.
   U.   Filling of Blanks: When a blank is to be filled and different sums or
times proposed, the question shall be taken first on the least sum or the
longest time.
   V.   Motion to Substitute: A substitute for any original proposition under
debate or for any pending amendment to such proposition may be entertained
notwithstanding that at such time further amendment is admissible; and if
accepted by the Board of Trustees by vote shall entirely supersede such
original proposition or amendment, as the case may be, and cut off all
amendments appertaining thereto.
   W.   Reconsideration: A vote or a question may be reconsidered at any time
during the same meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A
motion for reconsideration, having been once made and decided in the negative,
shall not be renewed, nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered. A
motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted on the
prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise provided
by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority vote in
the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground that a greater
number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or adoption
of such motion, then in such case a motion to reconsider may be made and
seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on such question to be
reconsidered. (Ord. 60-05, 3-23-60)
1-6-8: RESCINDED ACTION:
No vote or action of the Board shall be rescinded at any special meeting unless
there be present at such special meeting as many members of the Board of
Trustees as were present at the meeting when such vote or action was taken.
1-6-9: SUSPENSION OF RULES:
The rules of order, other than those prescribed by statute, may be suspended at
any time by the consent of a majority of the corporate authorities. (Ord. 80-
06, 5-28-80)
1-6-10: DISORDERLY CONDUCT OF MEMBERS; CENSURE, EXPULSION:
Any member acting or appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner, or who uses
approprious, obscene or insulting language to or about any member of the Board,
or who does not obey the order of the Chair, shall be, on motion, censured by a
majority vote of the members present, or expelled by a two- thirds (2/3) vote
of all members elected. (Ord. 60-05, 3-23-60)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-7-1: Appointment, Term of Office
1-7-2: Bond
1-7-3: Salary
1-7-4: Duties
1-7-5: Records
1-7-6: Monies Received
1-7-7: Vouchers
1-7-8: Vacancy in Office
1-7-9: Deputy Clerk
1-7-1: APPOINTMENT, TERM OF OFFICE:
The Village Clerk shall be appointed by the Village President with the
concurrence of the Village Board. The Village Clerk shall be appointed for a
term concurrent with the term of the Village President; provided, that the
appointment may be terminated by majority vote of the Village Board. (Ord. 92-
25, 10-31-92, eff. 5-1-93)
1-7-2: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of office, the Clerk shall execute a bond as
required in Section
1-8-6 of this Code. (Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
1-7-3: SALARY:
The compensation of the Village Clerk shall be fixed by the corporate
authorities 1 . (Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-8-7B of this Code.
1-7-4: DUTIES:
   A.   Corporate Seal: The Clerk shall keep the Corporate Seal, to be provided
under the direction of the corporate authorities, and all papers belonging to
the Village. (Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
   B.   Journal, Records: The Clerk shall attend all meetings of the President
and Board of Trustees and keep a full record of its proceedings in the journal.
Within not more than ten (10) days after each meeting of the Board, the Clerk
shall supply to each member at his residence a copy of the proceedings. The
Clerk shall keep copies of all papers duly filed in the Village Clerk's office.
Transcripts from the journal and other records and files of the Village Clerk's
office, certified by the Clerk under the Corporate Seal, shall be evidence in
all courts in like manner as if the originals were produced. The Clerk shall
keep a full index of the journal, keeping the same up-to-date from month to
month. (Ord. 60-05, 3-23-60; amd. Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
   C.   Additional Duties: The Clerk shall in addition to the above, as imposed
upon that officer by law, perform the following duties:
      1.   Issue notices to the members and to all officers of the Board of
Trustees and other persons, when directed to do so by the Board, or the
chairman of any committee of said Board, and whenever required by law.
      2.   Attest to all documents required to be signed by the President.
      3.   Without delay, deliver to the officers of the Village and to all
committees of said Board, all resolutions and communications referred to those
officers or committees by the Board and, without delay, deliver to the
President of said Village all ordinances or resolutions under his charge, which
may require to be approved or otherwise acted upon by the President, with all
papers on which the same were founded.
      4.   Within five (5) days after the result of any election is declared or
appointment is made, notify such person so elected or appointed to any Village
office of his election or appointment, and unless such person shall qualify
respectively within ten (10) days after such notice, the office shall become
vacant and the Clerk shall notify the President and Board of Trustees.
      5.   File with the County Clerk of Lake County, Illinois, a certified
copy of the Tax Levy Ordinance, in which the total amount of appropriations for
all corporate purposes of the Village are levied and assessed as provided in
the statutes 1 . (Ord. 88-11, 5-25-88)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/8-3-1 et seq.
1-7-5: RECORDS:
In addition to the record of ordinances 1  and other records which the Clerk is
required by statute 3 to keep, he or the Village Collector, as designated by
the corporate authorities shall keep a register of all licenses and permits
issued, and the payments thereon; a record showing all of the officers and
regular employees of the Village; and such other records as may be required by
the corporate authorities. The Clerk shall file and preserve in convenient form
for reference and use, according to date of filing and subject matter, all
official bonds, oaths of office, written reports of officers and committees,
vouchers and all papers and documents filed with him or deposited in his care,
and promptly turn over the same to his successor in office, taking a receipt
therefor. (Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
The Clerk shall provide copies of any ordinance, resolution, regulation,
minutes of meetings, or other public document in the Clerk's care and
possession upon request by any person. Such copies shall be delivered
reasonably promptly during regular business hours after payment of such copy
fees as may be established from time to time by resolution of the Board of
Trustees 3 . (Ord. 88-11, 5-25-88)
 
Notes
1 2. See Section
  1-9-5 of this Code.
3 3. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3-10-7, 5/3-10-8.
  1. See Sections
3 1-9-6 and
  7-3-8-3 of this Code.
1-7-6: MONIES RECEIVED:
The Clerk shall turn over all money received by him on behalf of the Village to
the Village Treasurer promptly upon receipt of the same, and with such money
the Clerk shall give a statement as to the source thereof. The Clerk shall keep
accounts showing all money received by said Clerk and the source and
disposition thereof, and such other accounts as may be required by statute or
ordinance. (Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
1-7-7: VOUCHERS:
The Clerk shall issue vouchers or orders to the Treasurer. No voucher shall be
issued unless ordered by a majority of the corporate authorities by roll call
vote at a regular or special meeting duly convened. (Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
1-7-8: VACANCY IN OFFICE:
In case the office of Village Clerk shall become vacant for any reason, the
corporate authorities shall appoint a successor as is provided by statute 1 .
(Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
 
Notes
1 2. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3-7-1, 5/3-8-1.
1-7-9: DEPUTY CLERK:
The Clerk may appoint a Deputy, by and with the consent of the corporate
authorities who, in the temporary absence of the Clerk, in case of sickness, or
otherwise, shall be empowered to perform all, or specifically designated duties
of the Village Clerk. (Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
CHAPTER 8
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Village Treasurer
1-8-1-1: Office Created, Appointment
1-8-1-2: Bond
1-8-1-3: Duties
1-8-1-4: Deposit of Funds
1-8-1-5: Records
1-8-1-6: Reports
1-8-2: Village Administrator
1-8-2-1: Office Created, Appointment
1-8-2-2: Bond
1-8-2-3: Duties
1-8-2-4: Compensation
1-8-3: Village Attorney
1-8-3-1: Office Created, Appointment
1-8-3-2: Legal Advisor
1-8-3-3: Duties
1-8-3-4: Suits and Actions
1-8-3-5: Fee Schedule
1-8-3-6: Special Counsel
1-8-4: Village Marshall
1-8-4-1: Office Created, Appointment
1-8-4-2: Qualifications for Office
1-8-4-3: Bond
1-8-4-4: Powers and Duties
1-8-4-5: Warrants
1-8-4-6: Training
1-8-5: Building Commissioner
1-8-5-1: Office Created, Appointment
1-8-5-2: Compensation
1-8-5-3: Powers and Duties
1-8-5-4: Stop Work Orders
1-8-5-5: Right of Entry Powers
1-8-5-6: Assistants
1-8-6: Bond Requirements
1-8-7: Compensation of Elected Officials
1-8-8: Code Enforcement Officer
1-8-8-1: Office Created, Appointment
1-8-8-2: Compensation
1-8-8-3: Powers and Duties
1-8-8-4: Right of Entry Powers
1-8-8-5: Assistants
1-8-9: Village Superintendent
1-8-9-1: Office Created, Appointment
1-8-9-2: Compensation
1-8-9-3: Powers and Duties
1-8-9-4: Right of Entry Powers
1-8-9-5: Assistants
1-8-1: VILLAGE TREASURER:
1-8-1-1: OFFICE CREATED, APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of Village Treasurer who shall be appointed
by the President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, as is
provided by statute 1 . He shall serve for one year, and until his successor
shall have been appointed and shall qualify. (Ord. 80-06, 8-28-80)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3-8-1.
1-8-1-2: BOND:
The Village Treasurer shall give a bond, before entering upon his duties, in an
amount not less than that required in Section
1-8-6 of this Chapter. This bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful
performance by the Treasurer of his duties and shall be conditioned to
indemnify the Village for any loss by reason of any neglect of duty or any act
of the Treasurer. (Ord. 80-06, 8-28-80)
1-8-1-3: DUTIES:
The Treasurer shall perform such duties as may be prescribed for him by statute
or ordinance. He shall receive all money paid into the Village either directly
from the person paying the money or from the hands of such other officer or
employee who may receive it, and he shall pay out money only on vouchers or
orders properly signed by the Clerk. (Ord. 80-06, 8-28-80)
1-8-1-4: DEPOSIT OF FUNDS:
The Treasurer shall deposit the Village funds in such depositories as may be
selected from time to time as is provided by law 1 , and he shall keep the
deposit of the Village money separate and distinct from his own money, and
shall not make private or personal use of any Village money. (Ord. 80-06, 8-28-
80)
 
Notes
1 2. See Title 2, Chapter 2 of this Code.
1-8-1-5: RECORDS:
The Treasurer shall keep the records showing all money received by him, showing
the source from which it is received and the purpose for which it is paid, and
he shall keep accurate records at all times showing the financial status of the
Village. The Treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as may be required by
ordinance, and shall keep them in the manner required by the corporate
authorities. (Ord. 80-06, 8-28-80)
1-8-1-6: REPORTS:
The Treasurer shall make a monthly report to the corporate authorities showing
the receipts and disbursements during the month previous, and the state and
condition of every account not closed on his books. He shall also make an
annual report, during the last month of the fiscal year, showing all the
activities of his office. (Ord. 80-06, 8-28-80)
1-8-2: VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR:
1-8-2-1: OFFICE CREATED, APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of Village Administrator who shall be
appointed by the Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees. The Village Administrator shall be appointed for a term concurrent
with the term of the Village President. The Administrator shall be subject to
removal at any time by a majority vote of the corporate authorities. (Ord. 93-
22, 4-28-93)
1-8-2-2: BOND:
The Village Administrator shall give a bond, before entering upon his duties,
as provided by the terms of, and in an amount not less than that required in
Section
1-8-6 of this Chapter. This bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful
performance by the Administrator of his duties, and shall be conditioned to
indemnify the Village for any loss by reason of the neglect of duty or any act
of the Administrator. (Ord. 93-22, 4-28-93)
1-8-2-3: DUTIES:
The Village Administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of the
Village, subordinate only to the Village President. He shall perform all of the
administrative duties of the Village President as directed by and under the
supervision of the Village President, including directing and supervising the
activities of all other appointed officers and employees of the Village. In
addition, he shall perform the following specific duties:
   A.   The Administrator shall perform the duties set forth in the statutes of
the State for the office of Village Collector 1 , including but not limited to
the following:
      1.   Collect all monies due to the Village under any and all special
assessments, license fees, special taxes of any kind, or any other sums to be
received by or be collected by the Village as authorized by the Village
authorities, except such sums as may be paid over directly to the Village
Treasurer.
      2.   Turn over all money received by him on behalf of the Village
promptly upon receipt thereof to the Village Treasurer, and give therewith a
statement as to the source thereof.
      3.   To keep accounts of all monies received and the source and
disposition thereof and such other accounts as the Village authorities may
direct, and to make a detailed monthly report to the Village Board of the
accounts, and an annual report in the last month of the fiscal year showing all
collection activities.
   B.   The Administrator shall be the ex officio comptroller of the Village
and shall perform the duties set forth in the statutes of the State for said
office 2 .
   C.   The Administrator shall be the official purchasing agent for the
Village 3 , and shall perform the following duties:
      1.   Whenever directed by the Village Board, obtain and provide
information, along with his recommendations, concerning the cost and quality of
any items which the Village proposes to purchase or lease.
      2.   When authorized by the Village Board, purchase or otherwise contract
for acquisition of such items on the best terms and price available.
   D.   The Administrator shall attend all meetings of the Village Board, and
such Board committee meetings, Plan Commission meetings and hearings, and
Zoning Board hearings as the Village Board may direct.
   E.   The Administrator shall conduct Village business at the Village office
during regular business hours as may be established from time to time by the
Village Board.
   F.   The Administrator shall perform all such additional duties as may from
time to time be assigned to him by action of the Village Board. (Ord. 93-22, 4-
28-1993)
   G.   The Administrator is authorized to execute all contracts, work orders,
change orders, and other agreements (hereinafter "contracts") which are
specifically authorized by the Village Board. Without specific Village Board
approval, the Administrator may execute contracts for routine day-by-day
Village operations in accordance with the limitations hereinafter set forth.
      1.   Contracts for routine operation and maintenance activities
specifically included in the approved fiscal budget up to the amounts provided
in the budget for each activity, and for other routine activities not specified
in the budget up to three thousand dollars ($3,000.00).
      2.   Contracts for professional services of engineers, attorneys,
foresters, and other professionals usually retained by the Village for specific
services not included in the budget up to three thousand dollars ($3,000.00).
      3.   Contracts for inspection services, etc., when petitioner, developer
or builder has deposited funds with Village to cover the cost thereof.
   H.   In case of accident, disaster, or other circumstances creating a public
emergency, the Administrator, for the purpose of meeting the emergency, may
contract for work or purchases up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) without
further authorization, and for an additional ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00)
with the verbal approval of the President of the Board of Trustees, or in his
absence, the verbal approval of two (2) Trustees. (Ord. 96-07, 4-24-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3-11-25 et seq.
2 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3-11-21 et seq.
3 2. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3-6-4.
1-8-2-4: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the Village Administrator shall be established from time to
time by the Village Board by ordinance or in the annual appropriation
ordinance. The compensation of the Village Administrator for the fiscal year
beginning May 1, 1996, and until revised by the Village Board shall be two
thousand seven hundred ninety dollars ($2,790.00) per month and shall be
payable during any vacation period which the Village Board may approve. (Ord.
96-14, 6-26-1996)
1-8-3: VILLAGE ATTORNEY:
1-8-3-1: OFFICE CREATED, APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of Village Attorney. The Village Attorney
shall be appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees. The appointment of a Village Attorney may be either of an individual
attorney or of a professional corporation from which one or more individual
attorney members may be designated to perform the duties of Village Attorney
with the consent of the Board of Trustees. The Village Attorney shall be
subject to removal at any time by a majority vote of the corporate authorities.
(Ord. 96-03, 3-20-1996)
1-8-3-2: LEGAL ADVISOR:
The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Village and shall render
advice on all legal questions affecting it, whenever requested to do so by any
Village official. Upon request by the President or by the Board, he shall
reduce any such opinion to writing. (Ord. 80-06, 8-28-1980)
1-8-3-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Judgments: It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to see to the
full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of
the Village and of all similar interlocutory orders.
   B.   Special Assessments: It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to
see to the completion of all special assessment proceedings and condemnation
proceedings. (Ord. 80-06, 8-28-80)
1-8-3-4: SUITS AND ACTIONS:
The Attorney shall, when directed by the Board, prosecute or defend any and all
suits or actions at law or equity to which the Village may be a party, or in
which it may be interested, or which may be brought against, or by, any officer
of the Village on behalf of the Village or in the capacity of such person as an
officer of the Village. (Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
1-8-3-5: FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Monthly retainer as established from time to time by corporate
authorities, which:
      1.   Covers and includes:
         a.   Time at regular monthly Village Board meetings and occasional
special or adjourned Board meetings; and
         b.   Preparation of regular ordinances and resolutions based upon
materials and rough drafts supplied by Board members and committees; and
         c.   Submitting general advice and information on legal matters of
general interest to Village;
      2.   But does not cover and excludes:
         a.   Time attending committee or commission meetings; and
         b.   Time or expenses in prosecuting or defending all suits or actions
at law or equity; and
         c.   All extraordinary (unusually complex, lengthy or comprehensive)
ordinances or resolutions or written reports; and
         d.   All ordinances, resolutions, reports, negotiations, drafts,
investigations and other legal work not on behalf of Board, including but not
limited to, work required to plan and approve annexations, subdivisions, land
plans, building projects and other matters benefitting specific private owners;
and
         e.   Special assessments and condemnation proceedings.
   B.   Additional time at sixty five dollars ($65.00) per hour (to be adjusted
to market increases). Whenever any work required by the corporate authorities
requires additional time charges and specific or general authorization has not
been given for such charges, the Attorney shall notify the corporate
authorities or the Village President of the estimated proposed charges and not
proceed unless authorized by the corporate authorities or the Village
President. (Ord. 80-06, 8-28-80; 1988 Code)
1-8-3-6: SPECIAL COUNSEL:
The President may, by and with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees,
from time to time, retain an attorney to represent or advise the Village on
legal matters if no Village Attorney has been appointed. He may likewise retain
special counsel to advise or represent the Village on special matters or to
assist the Village Attorney.
1-8-4: VILLAGE MARSHALL:
1-8-4-1: OFFICE CREATED, APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of Village Marshall. The Village Marshall
shall be appointed by the President, with the advice and consent of the Board
of Trustees, for a period of one year and until his successor shall have been
appointed and shall qualify. He shall be subject to removal at any time by a
majority vote of the corporate authorities at any regular or special meeting
called in accordance with the law.
1-8-4-2: QUALIFICATIONS FOR OFFICE:
No person shall be qualified for the office of Village Marshall if he has ever
been convicted of a felony or any other crime involving moral turpitude.
1-8-4-3: BOND:
The Village Marshall, before entering upon his duties, shall file with the
Village Clerk a bond as required in Section
1-8-6 of this Chapter with sureties to be approved by the Board, conditioned to
indemnify the Village for any loss or liability due to or occasioned by any act
or failure to act on the part of the Village Marshall.
1-8-4-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Village Marshall shall have the power:
   A.   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all persons
who break the peace, or are found violating any Municipal ordinance or any
criminal law of the State.
   B.   To commit arrested persons for examination.
   C.   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody overnight or Sunday
in any safe place, or until they can be brought before the proper court.
   D.   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace that the
corporate authorities may prescribe.
It shall be the duty of the Village Marshall to see to the enforcement of all
ordinances of the Village and the statutes applicable thereto and to preserve
order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest violators thereof. It shall
be his duty to conduct himself in a proper and law-abiding manner at all times
and to avoid the use of unnecessary force.
1-8-4-5: WARRANTS:
All warrants for the violation of Municipal ordinances, or the State Criminal
Law 1 , to whomsoever directed, may be served and executed within the limits of
the Municipality by the Village Marshall. For this purpose, the Village
Marshall has all the common law and statutory power of sheriffs.
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 720, 725, 730 and 740 ILCS.
1-8-4-6: TRAINING:
Prior to performing any of his duties, the Village Marshall shall receive
necessary and appropriate training and course of study as determined and
provided by the corporate authorities to assure that he has adequate knowledge
of police procedure and of the use of weapons. (Ord. 80-06, 5-28-80)
1-8-5: BUILDING COMMISSIONER 1 :
 
Notes
  2. See also Sections
1 7-4-2, 7-4-3 and subsection
  8-11-8B of this Code.
1-8-5-1: OFFICE CREATED, APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of Building Commissioner. Appointment to
said office shall be made by the Village President with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees.
1-8-5-2: COMPENSATION:
The compensation, if any, of the Building Commissioner shall be established by
the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-60)
1-8-5-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner to enforce all the provisions
of all ordinances relating to building or zoning 1  and to inspect all
buildings and structures and parts and appurtenances thereof regulated by the
Building Title which are being erected, installed or altered as frequently as
may be necessary to insure compliance with the Village ordinances. (Ord. 60-09,
5-12-60)
The Building Commissioner shall have the power and shall exercise the function
prescribed by the State law and by the terms of all ordinances now in force or
hereafter passed. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-60)
 
Notes
1 1. See Titles 7 and 8 of this Code.
1-8-5-4: STOP WORK ORDERS:
The Building Commissioner shall have the power to order all work stopped on
construction, installation, alteration or repair of buildings and structures,
and parts and appurtenances thereof regulated by the Building Title in the
Village when such work is being done in violation of any provision of any
ordinance relating thereto, or in violation of the Zoning Title. Work shall not
be resumed after the issuance of such an order except on the written permission
of the Commissioner, provided, that if the stop order is an oral one, it shall
be followed by a written stop order within two (2) hours. Such written stop
order may be served by the Building Commissioner. (Ord. 60-09, 5-12-60; 1988
Code)
1-8-5-5: RIGHT OF ENTRY POWERS:
The Building Commissioner shall have the power to make or cause to be made an
entry into any building or premises where the work of altering, installing,
repairing or constructing any building and structure and parts and
appurtenances thereof regulated by the Building Title is going on for the
purpose of making inspections at any reasonable hour. (Ord. 60-09, 5-12-60)
1-8-5-6: ASSISTANTS:
Such assistants as may be needed and qualified may also be appointed by the
Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, and
they shall be under the supervision and control of the Building Commissioner.
They shall be empowered to act in place of the Building Commissioner. (Ord. 60-
09, 5-12-60; 1988 Code)
1-8-6: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Amount of Bonds: Before entering upon the duties of their respective
offices, Village officers shall execute and deliver a bond with security, to be
approved by the corporate authorities of the Village. The bond shall be payable
to the Village unless otherwise provided by law, in the following sums and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of their offices and
the payment of all sums received by such officers, according to law and also
the ordinances of the Village:
 
Village President 1         $ 3,000.00
Village Administrator 2      5,000.00
Village Clerk 3             2,000.00
Village Treasurer 4         50,000.00
Village Marshall 5          2,000.00
 
The bond so required may provide that the obligation of the sureties shall not
extend to any loss sustained by the insolvency, failure, or closing of any
bank. The Board of Trustees shall have the right to demand a new or larger bond
or further and additional sureties from time to time as in its opinion may be
necessary for the protection of the Village. If the original bond filed by an
officer shall not be approved, or having been approved by the Board of
Trustees, a new or larger bond or further and additional sureties shall be
required, notice thereof shall be given to the officer, whereupon he shall,
within ten (10) days after receipt of notice, file a bond satisfactory to the
Board of Trustees. Failure to file a satisfactory bond within said ten (10)
days shall create a vacancy in the office involved. (Ord. 93-22, 4-28-93)
   B.   Type of Security: Security may be provided either by personal or
corporate surety. If security is provided by a corporate surety, only one
surety shall be required and any company duly authorized to do surety business
in the State of Illinois shall be sufficient. If security is provided by
personal surety, two (2) sureties shall be required. A personal surety may be
any elector residing within the Village owning property having a value at least
equal to the face amount of the bond. If a bond is executed by a surety or
sureties as provided in this subsection, the requirement as to the approval of
the corporate authorities as to the security of the bond shall have been deemed
satisfied.
   C.   Filing: The bonds herein provided for shall be filed with the Village
Clerk, unless otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 60-01, 3-5-60)
 
Notes
1 1. See also
  1-5-4 of this Title.
2 2. See also Section
  1-8-2-2 of this Chapter.
3 3. See also
  1-7-2 of this Title.
4 4. See also
  1-8-1-2 of this Chapter.
5 5. See also
  1-8-4-3 of this Chapter.
1-8-7: COMPENSATION OF ELECTED OFFICIALS:
   A.   Village President: The Village President shall receive an annual
compensation of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) per year, payable in monthly
installments. (Ord. 87-03, 3-25-87)
   B.   Village Clerk: The Village Clerk shall receive compensation of fifty
dollars ($50.00) for each regular or officially called special meeting of the
Board of Trustees attended by the Clerk, payable monthly. Any meeting adjourned
from time to time shall not be considered to be a separate meeting for the
purposes of determining such compensation. (Ord. 93-22, 4-28-93)
   C.   Village Trustees: The Village Trustees shall each receive compensation
of forty dollars ($40.00) for each regular or officially called special meeting
of the Board of Trustees attended by the Trustee, payable monthly. Any meeting
adjourned from time to time shall not be considered to be a separate meeting
for the purposes of determining such compensation. (Ord. 87-03, 3-25-87)
1-8-8: CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
1-8-8-1: OFFICE CREATED, APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of Code Enforcement Officer. Appointment to
said office shall be made by the Village President with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 89-02, 2-22-89)
1-8-8-2: COMPENSATION:
The compensation, if any, of the Code Enforcement Officer shall be established
by the Board of Trustees by resolution. (Ord. 89-02, 2-22-89)
1-8-8-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Officer to enforce all the
provisions of all of the ordinances of the Village other than the building and
zoning ordinances, traffic control ordinances and any other ordinances
specifically designated as the enforcement responsibility of others. He shall
have such other powers and duties as the Board of Trustees may establish from
time to time.
1-8-8-4: RIGHT OF ENTRY POWERS:
The Code Enforcement Officer shall have the power at any reasonable hour to
make or cause to be made an entry upon any premises or into any building where
he has been reliably informed or reasonably believes that a violation of the
ordinances of the Village has been or is being committed.
1-8-8-5: ASSISTANTS:
The Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, may
appoint such assistants to the Code Enforcement Officer as may be needed. Such
assistants shall be under the supervision and control of the Code Enforcement
Officer and shall be empowered to act in the place of the Code Enforcement
Officer. (Ord. 89-02, 2-22-89)
1-8-9: VILLAGE SUPERINTENDENT:
1-8-9-1: OFFICE CREATED, APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of Village Superintendent. Appointment to
said office shall be made by the Village President with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees.
1-8-9-2: COMPENSATION:
The compensation, if any, of the Village Superintendent shall be established by
the Board of Trustees by resolution.
1-8-9-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the Village Superintendent to perform or to supervise,
as the case may be, all maintenance and construction work to be performed by
the Village to operate and maintain its roads, sewers, drainage structures,
public facilities and improvements, and other properties as required by the
ordinances of the Village. He shall have such other powers and duties as the
Board of Trustees may establish from time to time.
1-8-9-4: RIGHT OF ENTRY POWERS:
The Village Superintendent shall have the power at any reasonable hour to make
or cause to be made an entry upon any premises or into any building where he
reasonably believes that such access is necessary for him to perform his
duties.
1-8-9-5: ASSISTANTS:
The Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, may
appoint such assistants to the Village Superintendent as may be needed. Such
assistants shall be under the supervision and control of the Village
Superintendent and shall be empowered to act in the place of the Village
Superintendent. (Ord. 89-06, 4-26-89)
CHAPTER 9
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Submission to, Action by Board of Trustees
1-9-2: Passage of Ordinances
1-9-3: Ordinance Approval, Veto
1-9-4: Publication, Time of Taking Effect
1-9-5: Record of Ordinances
1-9-6: Fees for Copies
1-9-1: SUBMISSION TO, ACTION BY BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
Any ordinance or resolution submitted to the Board of Trustees shall be reduced
to writing before being voted upon on the request of any member of the Board.
All ordinances shall first be read aloud at an open meeting on a day prior to
the meeting at which it is placed upon the agenda of the Board of Trustees for
vote upon its passage. No ordinance may be voted upon without such first
reading on a prior day unless this rule is suspended as provided in Section
1-6-9 of this Code. (Ord. 81-07, 2-25-81)
1-9-2: PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES:
The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances and on all
propositions to create any liability against the Village, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and in all other cases at the
request of any member of the Board, and such vote shall be entered on the
journal of the proceedings, as is provided by statute 1 . (Ord. 60-05, 5-23-60)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1 et seq.
1-9-3: ORDINANCE APPROVAL, VETO:
All ordinances passed by the Board shall, before they take effect, be deposited
with the Village Clerk, and if the President approves thereof, he shall sign
the same, and such as he shall not approve he shall return to the Board with
his objections thereto in writing at the next regular meeting occurring not
less than five (5) days after the passage thereof. Such veto may extend to any
one or more items or appropriations contained in any ordinance making an
appropriation, or to the entire ordinance; and in case the veto only extends to
a part of such ordinance, the residue thereof shall take effect and be in
force. But in case the President shall fail to return any ordinance, with his
objections thereto by the time aforesaid, he shall be deemed to have approved
such ordinances and the same shall take effect accordingly. Upon the return of
any ordinance by the President, the vote by which the same was passed shall be
reconsidered by the Board of Trustees. If after such reconsideration two-thirds
(2/3) of all the members elected to the Board shall agree by yeas and nays to
pass the same, it shall go into effect notwithstanding that the President may
refuse to approve thereof. (Ord. 60-05, 5-23-60)
1-9-4: PUBLICATION, TIME OF TAKING EFFECT:
All ordinances imposing any penalty for a violation thereof or making any
appropriation shall be published as is required by statute 1 . No ordinance
which must be published to comply with the foregoing sentence shall go into
effect until ten (10) days after it is so published, and all other ordinances
shall go into effect upon the passage thereof, as is provided by statute. (Ord.
60-05, 5-23-60)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4.
1-9-5: RECORD OF ORDINANCES:
The Clerk shall keep a record of all ordinances passed in an ordinance book for
such purpose. (Ord. 60-05, 5-23-60)
1-9-6: FEE FOR COPIES 1 :
Fees pertaining to requests for copies of ordinances of the Village, not within
themselves containing a fee schedule, shall be as follows for purchase of said
ordinance:
 
5 pages or less $1.00
6-10 pages      2.00
Over 10 pages   0.20 per page
 
(Ord. 66-06, 9-28-66)
 
Notes
1 2. See also Section
  7-3-8-3 of this Code for fees for ordinances relating to building.
CHAPTER 10
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
ARTICLE A. PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
1-10A-1: Commission Created
1-10A-2: Membership, Organization
1-10A-3: Term of Office
1-10A-4: Powers
1-10A-5: Meetings
1-10A-6: Rules of Procedure
1-10A-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created a Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals
for the Village pursuant to State law.  1 ,  2 . (Ord. 60-04, 3-5-60; amd. Ord.
2022-O-12, 9-28-2022)
 
Notes
1    S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-4 et seq.
2    S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.
1-10A-2: MEMBERSHIP, ORGANIZATION:
The Plan Commission hereby created shall consist of a chairman and six (6)
other members to be appointed by the President, with the consent of the Board
of Trustees. In addition, the Village President shall be a member ex officio of
the Commission. (Ord. 68-02, 5-22-68)
The chairman, by and with the consent of the members of the Commission, shall
appoint one of the members or the Village Clerk to act as secretary of the Plan
Commission who shall keep a record of its proceedings in an appropriate
journal. A majority of the full membership of the Plan Commission shall
constitute a quorum to do business and all action of the Commission at which a
quorum is present shall be controlled by a majority vote of those present. The
chairman shall be the presiding officer of the Commission and shall be entitled
to vote on all matters in the same manner as any other member of the
Commission. (Ord. 60-04, 3-5-60; 1988 Code)
1-10A-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
   A.   The Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals hereby created
and shall consist of a chairman and six (6) other members to be appointed by
the President, with the consent of the Board of Trustees. In addition, the
Village President shall be a member ex officio of the Commission.
   B.   The Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals may be
referred to as "The Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals," or
the "Plan Commission," or the "PC/ZBA," or "Zoning Board of Appeals," or
"Commission," and whatever references exist throughout this Village Code of
Ordinances to the former singular Plan Commission or former singular Zoning
Board of Appeals shall mean the Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of
Appeals.
   C.   The chairman, by and with the consent of the members of the Commission,
shall appoint one of the members or the Village Clerk, or a member of the
Village staff, to act as secretary of the Plan Commission who shall keep a
record of its proceedings in an appropriate journal. A majority of the full
membership of the Plan Commission shall constitute a quorum to do business and
all action of the Commission at which a quorum is present shall be controlled
by a majority vote of those present. The chairman shall be the presiding
officer of the Commission and shall be entitled to vote on all matters in the
same manner as any other member of the Commission. (Ord. 60-04, 3-5-60; amd.
Ord. 2022-O-12, 9-28-2022)
1-10A-4: POWERS:
The Plan Commission shall exercise all the powers conferred and authorized by
State law and shall be governed by their provisions in determining its
purposes, duties and powers. The Plan Commission shall also exercise all the
powers and duties of the former singular Zoning Board of Appeals under Article
B of this Chapter 1-10. (Ord. 60-04, 3-5-60; 1988 Code; amd. Ord. 2022-O-12, 9-
28-2022)
1-10A-5: MEETINGS:
The Plan Commission shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as may
be determined, and special meetings of the Commission may be held upon the call
of the chairman or of any three (3) members thereof in the same manner as
provided for the calling of special meetings of the Board of Trustees 1 . All
official meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public.
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  1-6-3C of this Code.
1-10A-6: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The Commission may adopt its own rules of procedure for the conduct of its
meetings, but such rules shall not be in conflict with any of the provisions of
this Article or any other ordinances of the Village or with any applicable
statutory requirements. (Ord. 60-04, 3-5-60)
ARTICLE B. COMBINED PLAN COMMISSION AND ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 1
SECTION:
1-10B-1: Board Created, Membership
1-10B-2: Terms of Office
1-10B-3: Reserved
1-10B-4: Meetings
1-10B-5: Jurisdiction, Authority
1-10B-6: Decisions
 
Notes
1    See Title 8 of this Code.
1-10B-1: BOARD CREATED, MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   There is hereby created a Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of
Appeals. The word "Board" when used in this subsection B shall be construed to
mean the Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals. The said Board
shall consist of the membership of the Combined Plan Commission and Zoning
Board of Appeals as provided in Section
1-10A-2 of subsection A of this Chapter 1-10.
   B.   Where the terms "Board" or "Board of Appeals" is used in this
subsection B or in this Code, such terms shall be construed to mean the
Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-60;
amd. Ord. 2022-O-12, 9-28-2022)
1-10B-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The members of said Board shall serve for the terms of office provided for on
Section
1-10A-3 of subsection A. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-60; amd. Ord. 2022-O-12, 9-28-2022)
1-10B-3: RESERVED:
(Repealed by Ord. 2022-O-12, 9-28-2022)
1-10B-4: MEETINGS:
All meetings of the Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals shall
be held at the call of the chairman or at such other times as such Board may
determine. Such chairman, or in his absence, the acting chairman, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of said
Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent
or failing to vote indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its
examinations and other official actions. Findings of fact shall be included in
the minutes of each case of a requested variation, specifying the reasons for
making or denying such variation. Every rule or regulation, every amendment or
repeal thereof, and every order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Board shall immediately be filed in the office of the Board and shall be a
public record. The Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure not in conflict
with the statute in such case made and provided. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-60; amd.
Ord. 2022-O-12, 9-28-2022)
1-10B-5: JURISDICTION, AUTHORITY:
The Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby invested
with the following jurisdiction and authority:
   A.   To hear and decide appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the administrative official, charged with the
enforcement of the Zoning Title 1 or any other ordinance adopted pursuant to
State law 1 .
   B.   To hear and make recommendations to the Village Board upon applications
for variations from the regulations provided in the Zoning Title in the manner
and subject to the standards hereafter set forth; and
   C.   To hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under the Zoning Title. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-60; amd. Ord. 2022-
O-12, 9-28-2022)
 
Notes
1    S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.
1-10B-6: DECISIONS:
The concurring vote of four (4) members of the Board is necessary to reverse
any order, requirement, decision or determination of an administrative
official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter which it is
required to pass upon under the Zoning Title, or to recommend any variation or
modification in the Zoning Title to the corporate authorities. (Ord. 60-08, 4-
27-60)
ARTICLE C. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
SECTION:
1-10C-1: Findings Of Fact
1-10C-2: Title
1-10C-3: Intent
1-10C-4: Definitions
1-10C-5: Establishment; Duties
1-10C-6: Organization And Membership
1-10C-7: Appointment And Terms
1-10C-8: Rules Of Procedure
1-10C-1: FINDINGS OF FACT:
The President and Board of Trustees of the Village make the following findings
of fact:
   A.   The Village has planned its development as an essentially residential
community with a rural atmosphere, open spaces, trail systems, and other
amenities which seek to provide a desirable quality of life for the residents
of the community.
   B.   The long-term economic stability of the Village requires careful
consideration of, and precise planning for some economic diversification in the
land uses within appropriate areas of the Village, which includes consideration
of desirable light industrial and commercial land uses and the development of
appropriate mechanisms to attract desirable industrial and commercial
businesses to the Village.
   C.   In order to enhance appropriate economic activity in the Village, and
in order to improve the long-term economic stability of the Village, it is
necessary, desirable and in the public interest to facilitate and encourage the
economic development of the Village through an Economic Development Commission.
(Ord. 97-04, 4-2-1997)
1-10C-2: TITLE:
This Article may be referred to as the VILLAGE OF GREEN OAKS ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION ORDINANCE. (Ord. 97-04, 4-2-1997)
1-10C-3: INTENT:
It is the intent of this Article to promote, protect and improve the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the Village by fostering diversified
economic development of the local economy through the activities of an Economic
Development Commission. Such Commission shall develop and recommend adoption of
economic development plans to the President and Board of Trustees which guide,
stimulate and promote the coordinated, efficient, appropriate and beneficial
economic development of the Village in accordance with present and future needs
and resources. The Economic Development Commission shall take no action which
will serve to facilitate the transaction of specific business by any of its
members or to promote the private interests of any member or to engage in any
activities which would constitute a regular business of a kind ordinarily
carried on for profit. This Article shall be liberally construed in order to
effectively carry out the purposes hereof. (Ord. 97-04, 4-2-1997)
1-10C-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Article, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
BOARD: The corporate authority of the Village consisting of the President and
Board of Trustees.
BUSINESS PROSPECT: Any person or representative of a firm or a company actively
considering the location of a business within the Village, provided that such
person, firm or company has local, regional, national or international market
(s) for its goods, services or products.
COMMISSION: The Village of Green Oaks Economic Development Commission
established herein.
VILLAGE: The Village of Green Oaks, Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 97-04, 4-2-
1997)
1-10C-5: ESTABLISHMENT; DUTIES:
   A.   Commission Established: The Village Economic Development Commission is
established for the purpose of establishing, developing and implementing sound
economic development programs for the Village, consisting of, among other
things, conducting research of available resources and the preparation of
industrial and commercial fact profiles to be made available to prospective
business prospects. Nothing in this Article shall be construed to alter, amend
or otherwise conflict with the powers and duties of the Village's Plan
Commission or Zoning Board of Appeals.
   B.   Duties: The Economic Development Commission shall collect information
on opportunities for business investment in the Village. The Economic
Development Commission shall prepare an economic development plan for the
Village utilizing such resources as are made available to it from private and
governmental sources. Such economic development plan shall be submitted to the
Village Board for adoption or further study. The Commission shall make
expenditures only upon the prior approval of the Village Board and the
Commission shall at all times remain strictly within the budget approved by the
Village Board for such purposes. (Ord. 97-04, 4-2-1997)
1-10C-6: ORGANIZATION AND MEMBERSHIP:
The Commission shall consist of seven (7) members who shall be appointed by the
Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The
Village President shall designate the chairperson and the vice chairperson of
the Commission. The chairperson and vice chairperson shall be designated
annually. Officers of the Commission may be appointed to successive terms.
(Ord. 97-17, 9-10-1997)
1-10C-7: APPOINTMENT AND TERMS:
   A.   All appointments of members to the Commission shall be for terms of
three (3) years, each of which shall expire on April 30, except for initial
appointments, which shall be as follows:
      1.   Two (2) members to serve until April 30, 1998 (1 year);
      2.   Two (2) members to serve until April 30, 1999 (2 years); and
      3.   Three (3) members to serve until April 30, 2000 (3 years). (Ord. 97-
17, 9-10-1997)
   B.   Any member may be appointed to successive terms on the Commission.
Vacancies shall be filled by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Board
of Trustees, but only for the balance of the term of the vacant seat.
   C.   The Village President, with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees,
may for good cause shown remove any member of the Commission. (Ord. 97-04, 4-2-
1997)
1-10C-8: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
   A.   Adoption Of Rules: The Commission shall adopt such rules of procedure
as it deems advisable for the conduct of its business.
   B.   Meetings: The Commission shall meet as frequently as its rules of
procedure shall provide, but not less than once every month.
   C.   Records: The Commission shall maintain a record of all its proceedings,
which records shall be placed on file with the Village Clerk.
   D.   Expenses: All members of the Commission shall serve without
compensation. All expenses incurred on behalf of the Commission shall, with the
prior approval of the Village Board, be reimbursed to the person incurring such
expenses.
   E.   Reports: The Commission shall submit reports of its activities to the
Village Board as often as it shall deem necessary or at the request of the
Village Board.
   F.   Quorum: A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a
quorum for the purpose of conducting the business of the Commission, and the
affirmative vote of a majority of the members present shall be necessary for
any action taken by the Commission. No vacancy in the membership of the
Commission shall impair the right of a quorum to perform the duties of the
Commission. (Ord. 97-04, 4-2-1997)
CHAPTER 11
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Annexation Hearings And Fees
1-11-1: ANNEXATION HEARINGS AND FEES:
   A.   Annexation Hearing: Whenever any person shall petition for the
annexation of territory contiguous to the village, the corporate authorities
shall conduct a hearing on the proposed annexation; provided, however, that the
hearing may be waived upon a two- thirds (2/3) vote of the corporate
authorities. (Ord. 84-03, 3-28-1984)
   B.   Fee For Annexation: The schedule of fees for annexation shall be as
follows:
 
For 1 acre or less of territory sought to be annexed          $200.00
For each additional acre from 1 to 5 acres in same parcel     200.00 per acre
For each additional acre from 6 to 20 acres in same parcel    150.00 per acre
For each additional acre in excess of 20 acres in same parcel 100.00 per acre
 
All such fees are nonrefundable if the parcel is annexed to the village;
provided, however, that the fee may be waived by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the
corporate authorities.
   C.   Annexation Hearing Costs: In addition to the fee for annexation, the
petitioner shall pay all costs and expenses incurred by the village in
connection with said hearing, including, but not limited to, publication of
notice, reporter's fees, attendance of legal counsel, and all related and
incidental expenses. (Ord. 89-23, 9-27-1989)
   D.   Annexation Cost Escrow Deposit: Petitioner shall comply with title 2,
chapter 4, "Development Fees And Costs", of this code at the time of
application, before the village considers any request for annexation. (Ord.
2012-O-10, 8-22-2012)
   E.   Time Of Payment Of Fees And Escrow Deposit: The aforesaid fees and
deposits shall be paid at the time of filing of petition with the clerk of the
village and prior to hearing thereon. (Ord. 84-03, 3-28-1984)
CHAPTER 12
INVESTMENT POLICY, VILLAGE
SECTION:
1-12-1: Scope And Objectives
1-12-2: Delegation Of Authority
1-12-3: Prudence
1-12-4: Eligible Investments
1-12-5: Other Investments
1-12-6: Cash Management
1-12-7: Collateral
1-12-8: Ethics And Conflicts Of Interest
1-12-9: Investment Diversification
1-12-10: Investment Maturity And Liquidity
1-12-11: Selection Of Financial Institutions And Dealers
1-12-12: Safekeeping
1-12-13: Internal Controls
1-12-14: Reporting
1-12-15: Policy Revisions
1-12-1: SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   Scope: This investment policy applies to activities of the Village of
Green Oaks (hereinafter referred to as the Village) with regard to investing
the financial assets of all funds.
   B.   Objectives: The Village's principal investment objectives are:
      1.   Preservation of capital and the protection of investment principal.
      2.   Maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet anticipated
disbursements.
      3.   Diversification to avoid incurring unreasonable risks regarding
specific security types or individual institutions.
      4.   Attainment of a market rate of return equal to or higher than the
performance measure established by the Village Treasurer.
      5.   Conformance with all Federal, State and other legal requirements.
(Ord. 99-09, 4-28-1999)
1-12-2: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY:
The ultimate responsibility and authority for investment transactions involving
the Village resides with the Village Treasurer. The Village Treasurer shall be
responsible for all investment decisions' activities, and for the operation of
the Village's investment program consistent with this investment policy. (Ord.
99-09, 4-28-1999)
1-12-3: PRUDENCE:
The standard of prudence to be used for managing the Village's assets is the
"prudent investor rule, which states, investments shall be made with judgment
and care, under circumstances then prevailing, which persons of prudence,
discretion and intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs,
not for speculation, but for investment considering the probable safety of
their capital as well as the probable income to be derived". (Ord. 99-09, 4-28-
1999)
1-12-4: ELIGIBLE INVESTMENTS:
The following is a list of authorized securities which may be purchased with
assets of the Village:
   A.   U.S. Treasury obligations (T-bills, T-notes, T-bonds).
   B.   U.S. Treasury strips (book-entry U.S. Treasury securities whose coupon
has been removed).
   C.   Federal instrumentalities; the following only: Federal National
Mortgage Association (FNMA) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC).
   D.   Fully collateralized repurchase agreements (collateralized with any of
the above).
   E.   Certificates of deposit of commercial banks and savings and loan
associations which are insured by the FDIC or FSLIC.
   F.   Prime commercial paper issued on U.S. corporations which has a maturity
of three (3) months or less and is rated "A-1" by Moody's, "P-1" by Standard &
Poor's, or "Duff 1+" by Duff & Phelps. (Ord. 99-09, 4-28-1999)
1-12-5: OTHER INVESTMENTS:
It is the intent of the Village that the foregoing list of authorized
securities be strictly interpreted and that any deviation from this list must
be preapproved by the Village Board. (Ord. 99-09, 4-28-1999)
1-12-6: CASH MANAGEMENT:
   A.   The Village's policy regarding cash management is based upon the
realization that there is a time-value to money. Temporarily idle cash may be
invested for a period of one day to an excess of one year, depending upon when
the money is needed. Accordingly, the Treasurer shall cause to be prepared
written cash management procedures, which shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:
      1.   Receipts: All monies due the Village shall be collected as promptly
as possible. Monies that are received shall be deposited in an approved
financial institution or with the Village Treasurer no later than the third
business day after receipt by the Village. Amounts that remain uncollected
after a reasonable length of time shall be subject to any available legal means
of collection.
      2.   Disbursements: Any disbursement to suppliers of goods and/or
services or to employees for salaries and wages shall be contingent upon an
available budget appropriation.
      3.   Cash Forecast: At least annually, a cash forecast shall be prepared
using expected revenue sources and items of expenditure to project cash
requirements over the fiscal year of the Village. The forecast shall be updated
periodically to identify the probable investable balances that will be
available.
      4.   Pooling Of Cash: Except for cash in certain restricted and special
accounts, the Village may pool the cash of various funds to maximize investment
earnings. Investment income will be allocated to the various funds based upon
their respective participation.
   B.   One of the objectives of the Village's cash management procedures is to
comply with the Public Funds Deposit Act 1  which states: "When such deposits
become collected funds and are not needed for immediate disbursement, they
shall be invested within two working days at prevailing rates or better". (Ord.
99-09, 4-28-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
1-12-7: COLLATERAL:
   A.   It is the policy of the Village to require that funds on deposit in
excess of FDIC, FSLIC, or successor entity's limits be secured by some form of
collateral. High-volume checking accounts under the control of the Treasurer
shall be collateralized based upon the anticipated average balance for the
following weeks. The ratio of fair-market value of collateral to the amount of
funds secured will be reviewed quarterly and additional collateral will be
requested when the ratio declines below the level required.
   B.   The Village will accept any of the following assets as collateral,
provided that the amount of collateral pledged will be not less than one
hundred ten percent (110%) of the fair-market value of the net amount of public
funds secured; and any financial institution pledging collateral from this
Section must place required collateral securities in a restricted account at a
Federal reserve bank, a trust department of a commercial bank or with another
financial institution that is not owned or controlled by the same institution
or holding company. Collateral agreements will preclude the release of the
pledged assets without authorization from the Village, but they will allow for
an exchange of collateral of like value and security.
      1.   U.S. Government securities.
      2.   Obligations of Federal agencies.
      3.   Obligations of Federal instrumentalities.
      4.   Obligations of the State of Illinois.
      5.   Obligations of the County of Lake.
      6.   General obligation municipal bonds rated "AA" or better by Moody's
or "A" or better by Standard & Poor's.
      7.   Any other collateral identified in Illinois statutes as acceptable
for use by the Treasurer of the State of Illinois.
   C.   Pledged collateral will be held in safekeeping and evidenced by a
safekeeping agreement.
   D.   The Village may also accept any of the following assets as collateral
provided that the amount of collateral pledged will not be less than one
hundred ten percent (110%) of the market value of the net amount of the public
funds secured, except subsection D2 of this Section pertaining to mortgages
shall be one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the market value of the net
amount. The aggregate collateral from subsections D1 through D4 of this Section
should not exceed seventy five percent (75%) of the total collateral pledged
from any given institution.
      1.   Bonds, notes and other various types of securities or certificates
of indebtedness issued by taxing bodies located within Lake County.
      2.   Single-family primary residential mortgages and commercial first
mortgages secured by improved property located within Lake County with a
maximum of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per pledged mortgage.
      3.   United States Government guaranteed tuition loans made to
individuals residing in or attending school in Lake County.
      4.   Small Business Administration loans generated to businesses located
within Lake County. The value of this collateral shall be only that portion of
the loan guaranteed by the Small Business Administration.
   E.   Any financial institution pledging collateral under this Section shall
supply the following reports:
      1.   A quarterly report at the end of February, May, August and October
of each year listing a description of the collateral pledged and a value for
said collateral. This report shall be signed by the president of the financial
institution and shall contain a certification that each loan listed therein is
current and up to date.
      2.   As of October 31 each year, a report from a CPA firm that does the
financial institution's audit, listing a description of the collateral pledged
and a value for each piece of collateral, a certification that each loan is
current and up to date, and a statement that the collateral is pledged only to
the Village.
      3.   Any reports submitted under subsections E1 and E2 of this Section
shall be considered exempt from public inspection under the Freedom of
Information Act. (Ord. 99-09, 4-28-1999)
1-12-8: ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST:
Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution and
management of the investment program, or that could impair their ability to
make impartial decisions. Employees and investment officials shall disclose any
material interests in financial institutions with which they conduct business.
They shall further disclose any personal financial/investment positions that
could be related to the performance of the investment portfolio. Employees and
officers shall refrain from undertaking personal investment transactions with
the same individual with whom business is conducted on behalf of the Village.
(Ord. 99-09, 4-28-1999)
1-12-9: INVESTMENT DIVERSIFICATION:
It is the policy of the Village to diversify the investment instruments within
the portfolio to avoid incurring unreasonable risks inherent in overinvesting
in specific instruments, individual financial institutions and maturities. The
asset allocation in the portfolio should, however, be flexible depending upon
the outlook for the economy and the securities markets. (Ord. 99-09, 4-28-1999)
1-12-10: INVESTMENT MATURITY AND LIQUIDITY:
Investments shall be limited to maturities not exceeding one year. In addition,
the weighted average maturity life of the total portfolio shall at no time
exceed one year. (Ord. 99-09, 4-28-1999)
1-12-11: SELECTION OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND DEALERS:
The Village shall maintain a list of all authorized brokers/dealers and
financial institutions which are approved for investment purposes, and it shall
be the policy of the Village to purchase securities only from those authorized
institutions and firms. To be eligible for authorization, a broker/dealer must
be recognized as a primary dealer by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Banks and savings and loan associations must be members of the FDIC or FSLIC in
order to be eligible for authorization. (Ord. 99-09, 4-28-1999)
1-12-12: SAFEKEEPING:
Investment securities purchased by the Village will be delivered by either book
entry or physical delivery, and held for safekeeping by the Village Clerk. The
trust department of the bank designated as primary agent will be considered to
be a third party for the purposes of safekeeping of securities.
Demand deposit accounts utilized for the liquidity portion of the Village's
portfolio shall not be subject to these safekeeping requirements as long as the
deposits are fully insured. (Ord. 99-09, 4-28-1999)
1-12-13: INTERNAL CONTROLS:
   A.   The Treasurer is responsible for establishing and maintaining an
internal control structure designed to ensure that the assets of the entity are
protected from loss, theft or misuse. The internal control structure shall be
designed to provide reasonable assurance that these objectives are met. The
concept of reasonable assurance recognizes that: 1) the cost of a control
should not exceed the benefits likely to be derived and 2) the valuation of
costs and benefits requires estimates and judgments by management.
   B.   Accordingly, the Treasurer shall establish a process for an annual
independent review by an external auditor to assure compliance with policies
and procedures. The internal controls shall address the following points:
      1.   Control of collusion.
      2.   Separation of transaction authority from accounting and record
keeping.
      3.   Custodial safekeeping.
      4.   Avoidance of physical-delivery securities.
      5.   Clear delegation of authority to subordinate staff members.
      6.   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and
wire transfers.
      7.   Development of a wire transfer agreement with the lead bank or third
party custodian. (Ord. 99-09, 4-28-1999)
1-12-14: REPORTING:
The Treasurer shall prepare an investment report at least quarterly, including
a succinct management summary that provides a clear picture of the status of
the current investment portfolio and transactions made over the last quarter.
This management summary will be prepared in a manner which will allow the
Village to ascertain whether investment activities during the reporting period
have conformed to the investment policy. The report should be provided to the
Village Board at its regular meeting. The report will include the following:
   A.   Listing of individual securities held at the end of the reporting
period.
   B.   Realized and unrealized gains or losses resulting from appreciation or
depreciation intended to be held until maturity (in accordance with GASB
requirements).
   C.   Average weighted yield to maturity of portfolio on investments as
compared to applicable bench marks.
   D.   Listing of investment by maturity date.
Percentage of the total portfolio which each type of investment represents.
(Ord. 99-09, 4-28-1999)
1-12-15: POLICY REVISIONS:
This investment policy will be reviewed periodically by the Treasurer and the
Village Board. It may be amended as conditions warrant. (Ord. 99-09, 4-28-1999)
CHAPTER 13
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Definitions
1-13-2: Prohibited Political Activities
1-13-3: Gift Ban
1-13-4: Ethics Advisor
1-13-5: Penalties
1-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given these
definitions:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
b) relating to collective bargaining, or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this chapter, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed, "compensated
time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises under the
control of the employer and any other time when the officer or employee is
executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the minimum work
time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the election code 3 .
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the village of Green Oaks whether on a full time
or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the
direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how
the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
EMPLOYER: The village of Green Oaks.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment, b) service credit towards pension benefits, and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining, or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY:
   A.   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political meeting,
political rally, political demonstration, or other political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer or 2) with
an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer or 2) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord. 2004-O-
03, 5-26-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 2. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-13-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village of
Green Oaks in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment,
or 3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 2004-O-03, 5-26-
2004)
1-13-3: GIFT BAN:
   A.   Solicitation Or Acceptance Of Gifts: Except as permitted by this
chapter, no officer or employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member
living with any officer or employee (collectively referred to herein as
"recipients"), shall intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any
"prohibited source", as defined herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by law
or ordinance. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift
that violates this section.
   B.   Exceptions: Subsection A of this section is not applicable to the
following:
      1.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
      2.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
      3.   Any: a) contribution that is lawfully made under the election code
or b) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.
      4.   Educational materials and missions.
      5.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
      6.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
      7.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: a) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; b)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and c) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
      8.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: a) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or b) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
      9.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
      10.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this chapter, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
      11.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
      12.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection B is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other.
   C.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this chapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 2004-O-03, 5-26-2004)
1-13-4: ETHICS ADVISOR:
   A.   The village president, with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees, shall designate an ethics advisor for the village. The duties of the
ethics advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of the village unless
the position has been created as an office by the village.
   B.   The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and employees
of the village concerning the interpretation of and compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and state ethics laws. The ethics advisor shall
perform such other duties as may be delegated by the corporate authorities.
(Ord. 2004-O-03, 5-26-2004)
1-13-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-13-2 of this chapter may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   B.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-13-3 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   C.   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this chapter to the local enforcement authorities, the
state's attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punished by a
term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined
in an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   D.   A violation of section
1-13-2 of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney
for the village of Green Oaks by filing in the circuit court an information, or
sworn complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and
conform to the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the
establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
A violation of section
1-13-3 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney for the village of Green Oaks.
   E.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-13-2 or
1-13-3 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 2004-O-03,
5-26-2004)
TITLE 2
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
CHAPTER 1
FISCAL YEAR
SECTION:
2-1-1: Fiscal Year Designated
2-1-1: FISCAL YEAR DESIGNATED:
The fiscal year of the Village is hereby established as commencing on May 1,
1968, and ending on April 30, 1969 and on each succeeding year following 1968,
the fiscal year of the Village shall also commence on May 1 and end on April 30
of the following year. (Ord. 67-06, 9-27-67)
CHAPTER 2
VILLAGE DEPOSITORIES
SECTION:
2-2-1: First National Bank of Libertyville, Illinois
2-2-1-1: Depository Designated
2-2-1-2: Endorsement for Deposits
2-2-1-3: Signed Checks, Drafts, Orders
2-2-1-4: Responsibilities of Village
2-2-1-5: Nonliability of Bank
2-2-2: American Security Federal Savings and Loan Association of Libertyville,
Illinois
2-2-2-1: Depository Designated
2-2-2-2: Statement of Resources and Liabilities Required
2-2-2-3: Amount of Uninsured Deposits
2-2-1: FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS:
2-2-1-1: DEPOSITORY DESIGNATED:
The First National Bank of Libertyville, Illinois, be and hereby is designated
a depository in which the funds of this Municipal corporation may be deposited
by its officers, agents, and employees.
2-2-1-2: ENDORSEMENT FOR DEPOSITS:
The President, Treasurer and Finance Chairman Trustee of the Village, Lake
County, Illinois shall be and each of them hereby is authorized to endorse for
deposit or negotiation any and all checks, drafts, notes, bills of exchange and
orders for the payment of money, either belonging to or coming into possession
of this Municipal corporation. Endorsements for deposit may be by the written
or stamped endorsement of the company without designation of the person making
the endorsement.
2-2-1-3: SIGNED CHECKS, DRAFTS, ORDERS:
The President, Treasurer and Finance Chairman Trustee of this Municipal
corporation are authorized to sign any and all checks, drafts, and orders,
including orders or directions in informal or letter form, against any funds at
any time standing to the credit of this Municipal corporation with the said
Bank and the said Bank hereby is authorized to honor any and all checks,
drafts, and orders so signed, including those drawn to the individual order of
any such officer and/or other person signing the same, without further inquiry
or regard to the authority of said officer and/or other person of the use of
said checks, drafts and orders, or the proceeds thereof.
2-2-1-4: RESPONSIBILITIES OF VILLAGE:
This Municipal corporation, by its duly authorized agent, enters into an
agreement with the said First National Bank of Libertyville, Illinois,
contemporaneously with the opening of said account whereby said Municipal
corporation agrees in consideration of the opening of said account to assume
and pay all expenses, costs and attorney's fees incurred by said Bank in any
legal proceedings brought against the said Bank by reason of the said account
and further agrees that any funds in possession of the said Bank to the credit
of this Municipal corporation may at any time be applied toward payment of such
expenses.
2-2-1-5: NONLIABILITY OF BANK:
Each of the foregoing sections shall continue in force until express written
notice of its decision or modification has been received by the said Bank, but
if the authority contained in them should be revoked or terminated by operation
of law without such notice, it is resolved and hereby agreed for the purpose of
inducing the said Bank to act thereunder, that the said Bank shall be saved
harmless from any loss suffered or liability incurred by it in so acting after
such revocation or termination without such notice. (Ord. 77-05, 11-16-77)
2-2-2: AMERICAN SECURITY FEDERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION OF LIBERTYVILLE,
ILLINOIS:
2-2-2-1: DEPOSITORY DESIGNATED:
The American Security Federal Savings and Loan Association of Libertyville,
Illinois, is hereby designated pursuant to the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3-10-3, as a place of deposit to keep the funds and moneys
of the Village in the custody of the Village Treasurer.
2-2-2-2: STATEMENT OF RESOURCES AND LIABILITIES REQUIRED:
The American Security Federal Savings and Loan Association shall furnish the
Village with copies of the last two (2) sworn statements of resources and
liabilities which it is required to furnish to the Commissioner of Savings and
Loan Associations or the Federal Home Loan Bank. It shall, while acting as such
depository, furnish the Village with a copy of all statements of resource and
liabilities which it is required to furnish to the Commissioner of Savings and
Loan Associations or the Federal Home Loan Bank.
2-2-2-3: AMOUNT OF UNINSURED DEPOSITS:
The amount of all such deposits not collateralized or insured by an agency of
the Federal government shall not exceed seventy five percent (75%) of the net
worth of the Savings and Loan Association as defined by the Federal Savings and
Loan Insurance Corporation. (Ord. 82-09, 9-22-82)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL TAXES
SECTION:
2-3-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
2-3-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
2-3-3: Municipal Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
2-3-4: Municipal Automobile Renting Use Tax
2-3-5: Municipal Vehicle Replacement Tax
2-3-6: Municipal Use Tax
2-3-7: Electric Consumption Tax Established
2-3-7-1: Definitions
2-3-7-2: Tax Imposed
2-3-7-3: Exceptions
2-3-7-4: Additional Taxes
2-3-7-5: Collection
2-3-7-6: Tax Remittance And Return
2-3-7-7: Credit For Over-Payment
2-3-7-8: Penalty
2-3-7-9: Resales
2-3-8: Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
2-3-8-1: Tax Imposed; Rate
2-3-8-2: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
2-3-8-3: Definition Of Cannabis
2-3-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in this Village at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business while these provisions are in effect, in accordance
with the provisions of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-1. (Ord. 86-12)
   B.   Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the
Village shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report
to the State Department of Revenue required by section three of "An Act in
Relation to a Tax Upon Persons to Purchasers for Use or Consumption", approved
June 28, 1933, as amended 1 .
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding
month. (Ord. 67-03, 8-23-1967, eff. 10-1-1967)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2-3-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this
Municipality in the business of making sales of service at the rate of one
percent (1%) of the gross receipts received from such business, in accordance
with the provisions of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-5. (Ord. 86-12)
   B.   Report Required: Every serviceman required to account for Municipal
Service Occupation Tax for the benefit of this Municipality shall file, on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department
of Revenue required by section nine of the Service Occupation Tax Act 1 .
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 67-
04, 8-23-1967, eff. 10-1-1967)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
2-3-3: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of renting automobiles in the Village, at the rate of one percent (1%)
of the gross receipts from such rentals made in the course of such business
while these provisions are in effect, in accordance with the provisions of the
Illinois Municipal Code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-7.
   B.   Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the
Village shall file, on or before the last day of each calendar month, the
report to the State Department of Revenue required by paragraphs two and three
of "An Act in Relation to a Tax Upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling
Tangible Personal Property to Purchasers for Use or Consumption", approved June
29, 1933, as amended 1 .
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the renting of automobiles during the preceding month. (Ord. 82-02, 3-24-
1982)
 
Notes
1 2. 35 ILCS 155/1 et seq.
2-3-4: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in
this Village an automobile which is rented from a rentor outside Illinois and
which is titled or registered with an agency of this State's government in the
Village, at the rate of one percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile
while these provisions are in effect, in accordance with the provisions of the
Illinois Municipal Code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-8.
   B.   Applicability Of Tax: The tax provided for in this section shall be
collected from the persons whose Illinois address for titling or registration
purposes is given as being in the Village.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: The tax imposed by this section shall be paid to the
Illinois Department of Revenue. (Ord. 82-01, 3-24-1982)
2-3-5: MUNICIPAL VEHICLE REPLACEMENT TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon each vehicle, as defined in
the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-146, purchased in
the Village by or on behalf of an insurance company to replace a vehicle of an
insured person in settlement of a total loss claim. The tax shall be in the
amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) per vehicle purchased.
   B.   Certificate Required: Every such insurance company that purchases a
replacement vehicle as defined herein shall complete and file with the Illinois
Department of Revenue a replacement vehicle certificate (Form RVT-7).
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 84-
04)
2-3-6: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using, in
the Village, any item of tangible personal property which was purchased in the
State of Illinois at retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered
with an agency of this State's government, at the rate of one percent (1%) of
the selling price of such tangible personal property, as selling price is
defined in the "Use Tax Act", approved July 14, 1955, as amended 1 .
   B.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereinabove imposed on
account of the use of personal property during the preceding month. (Ord. 86-
12)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
2-3-7: ELECTRIC CONSUMPTION TAX ESTABLISHED:
Effective August 1, 2017, there is hereby established a method of imposing a
local Municipal tax for the use of electricity within the Village of Green Oaks
to be collected and administered upon the provisions which follow. (Ord. 2017-
O-06, 5-24-2017)
2-3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this section
2-3-7, unless the context otherwise requires:
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the State or any of its political subdivisions, any
State university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court.
PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this State, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or other
representative operating within this State under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this State permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this State.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for purposes
of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the use of
electricity by a public utility, as defined in section
8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1 , directly in the generation,
production, transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of the
Village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
VILLAGE: The Village of Green Oaks, Illinois. (Ord. 2017-O-06, 5-24-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
2-3-7-2: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges:
      1.   The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the
Municipality at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each
purchaser:
         a.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.61 cents per kilowatt-hour (rate 0.00610);
         b.   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.40 cents per kilowatt-hour (rate 0.00400);
         c.   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.36 cents per kilowatt-hour (rate 0.00360);
         d.   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.35 cents per kilowatt-hour (rate 0.00350);
         e.   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.34 cents per kilowatt-hour (rate 0.00340);
         f.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.32 cents per kilowatt-hour (rate 0.00320);
         g.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.315 cents per kilowatt-hour (rate 0.00315);
         h.   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.31 cents per kilowatt-hour (rate 0.00310);
         i.   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.305 cents per kilowatt-hour (rate 0.00305);
         j.   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month; 0.30 cents per kilowatt- hour (rate 0.00300).
   B.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, the rates set forth
in subsection A of this section shall be effective on January 1, 2018. (Ord.
2017-O-06, 5-24-2017)
2-3-7-3: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   None of the taxes authorized by this section
2-3-7 may be imposed with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or
otherwise to the extent to which the business or privilege may not, under the
Constitution and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation
by this State or any political sub-division thereof; nor shall any persons
engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or
transmitting gas, water, or electricity, or engaged in the business of
transmitting messages, or using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase
at retail, be subject to taxation under the provisions of this section
2-3-7 for those transactions that are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of the Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax Act as authorized by
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1; nor shall any tax authorized by this
section
2-3-7 be imposed upon any person engaged in a business or any privilege unless
the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all persons engaged
in businesses of the same class in the Municipality, whether privately or
Municipally owned or operated, or exercising the same privilege within the
Municipality.
   B.   The following units of local government and school districts are exempt
from the imposition of the tax imposed by this section
2-3-7:
      1.   The Village of Green Oaks, Illinois;
      2.   Oak Grove Elementary School District 68;
      3.   Rondout Elementary School District 72. (Ord. 2017-O-06, 5-24-2017)
2-3-7-4: ADDITIONAL TAXES:
Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes, fees or charges lawfully levied
upon or charged to the taxpayer or its business. (Ord. 2017-O-06, 5-24-2017)
2-3-7-5: COLLECTION:
The tax authorized by this section
2-3-7 shall be collected from the purchaser by the person maintaining a place
of business in this State who delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This
tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who delivers the
electricity to the purchaser and if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner
as the original charge for delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to this section
2-3-7 and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the Municipality by such person delivering the
electricity provided that the person delivering the electricity shall be
allowed a credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity the charges
for which are written off as uncollectible, and provided further, that if such
charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to
remit such tax. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add
to such gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to
reimburse the person delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping
records, billing customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and
supplying data to the Municipality upon request. If the person delivering
electricity fails to collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser
shall be required to pay the tax directly to the Municipality in the manner
prescribed by the Municipality. Persons delivering electricity who file returns
pursuant to this section shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the
Municipality the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this section
2-3-7. (Ord. 2017-O-06, 5-24-2017)
2-3-7-6: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
   A.   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer who has not paid
the tax imposed by this section
2-3-7 to a person delivering electricity as set forth in section
2-3-7-5 of this chapter and who is not otherwise exempted from paying such tax
shall make a return to the Village Treasurer for the preceding month stating:
      1.   His name.
      2.   His principal place of business.
      3.   His gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the month upon
the basis of which the tax is imposed.
      4.   Amount of tax.
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the Corporate
Authorities may require.
   B.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the Village of Green Oaks, the amount of tax
herein imposed; provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may,
if he so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of late
payments based upon any differences between such billings, and the taxable
gross receipts.
   C.   Every tax collector and every taxpayer required to pay the tax imposed
by this section
2-3-7 shall keep accurate books and records of its business or activity,
including contemporaneous books and records denoting the transactions that gave
rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability under this section
2-3-7. The books and records shall be subject to and available for inspection
at all reasonable times during business hours of the day and upon reasonable
notification by the Municipality. (Ord. 2017-O-06, 5-24-2017)
2-3-7-7: CREDIT FOR OVER-PAYMENT:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this section
2-3-7, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such
amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this
section
2-3-7 from the taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided that no
amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a
claim therefor shall be so credited.
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this section
2-3-7 shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such
amount. (Ord. 2017-O-06, 5-24-2017)
2-3-7-8: PENALTY 1 :
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who willfully violates any other provision of this section
2-3-7 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense and in addition, shall be liable in a civil
action for the amount of tax due. (Ord. 2017-O-06, 5-24-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
2-3-7-9: RESALES:
   A.   Resale Number Required For Resale: Electricity that is delivered to a
person in this Village shall be considered to be for use and consumption by
that person unless the person receiving the electricity has an active resale
number issued by the Village and furnishes that number to the person who
delivers the electricity, and certifies to that person that the sale is either
entirely or partially nontaxable as a sale for resale.
   B.   Application For Resale Number: If a person who receives electricity in
the Village claims to be an authorized reseller of electricity, that person
shall apply to the Village for a resale number. The applicant shall state facts
showing why it is not liable for the tax imposed by this section
2-3-7 on any purchases of electricity and shall furnish such additional
information as the Village may reasonably require.
   C.   Assignation Of Resale Number: Upon approval of the application, the
Village shall assign a resale number to the applicant and shall certify the
number to the applicant.
   D.   Cancellation Of Resale Number: The Village may cancel the resale number
of any person if the person fails to pay any tax payable under this section
2-3-7 for electricity used or consumed by the person, or if the number: 1) was
obtained through misrepresentation, or 2) is no longer necessary because the
person has discontinued making resales.
   E.   Tax:
      1.   If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or consumption
and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by this section
2-3-7 directly to the Village pursuant to sections
2-3-7-2 and
2-3-7-5 of this chapter on the amount of electricity that the reseller uses or
consumes, and shall collect the tax pursuant to section
2-3-7-5 of this chapter and remit the tax pursuant to section
2-3-7-6 of this chapter on the amount of electricity delivered by the reseller
to a purchaser within the Municipality.
      2.   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an active
resale number and complying with all other conditions of this section
2-3-7 shall be excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of
the electricity delivered to the reseller, provided that the person reports to
the Village the total amount of electricity delivered to the reseller, and such
other information that the Village may reasonably require. (Ord. 2017-O-06, 5-
24-2017)
2-3-8: MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX:
Effective January 1, 2022, there is hereby established a method of imposing a
local municipal tax for the retail sale of cannabis and cannabis-containing
products within the Village of Green Oaks to be collected and administered upon
the provisions which follow. (Ord. 2021-O-16, 10-27-2021)
2-3-8-1: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
   A.   Effective from and after January 1, 2022, a tax is hereby imposed upon
all persons engaged in the business of selling cannabis, other than cannabis
purchased under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at
retail in the Village at the rate of three percent (3%) of the gross receipts
from these sales made in the course of that business.
   B.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
sections 8-11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code, as amended (65 ILCS 5/8-11-
22). (Ord. 2021-O-16, 10-27-2021)
2-3-8-2: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax imposed by this section shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller’s tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any State tax that sellers are required to collect.
   B.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this section
2-3-8.
   C.   Effective Date: The tax provided for herein shall take effect for all
retail cannabis sales with point of retail sale within the Village of Green
Oaks from and after January 1, 2022.
   D.   Filing With Illinois Department Of Revenue: Upon its passage, approval
and publication in pamphlet form as provided by law, two (2) duly certified
copies of Ordinance 2021-O-16 shall be sent to:
Local Tax Allocation Division (3-500)
Illinois Department of Revenue
101 W. Jefferson
Springfield, Illinois 62702
(Ord. 2021-O-16, 10-27-2021)
2-3-8-3: DEFINITION OF CANNABIS:
As used in this section
2-3-8 and its subsections, the term “Cannabis” means marijuana, hashish, and
other substances that are identified as including any parts of the plant
Cannabis sativa and including derivatives or subspecies, such as indica, of all
strains of cannabis, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof, the resin
extracted from any part of the plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin,
including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other naturally produced
cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction;
however, “cannabis” does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber
produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any
other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the
mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it), fiber, oil or cake, or the
sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of germination. “Cannabis” does
not include industrial hemp as defined and authorized under the Industrial Hemp
Act. “Cannabis” also means concentrate and cannabis-infused products. (Source:
410 ILCS 705/1-10.) (Ord. 2021-O-16, 10-27-2021)
CHAPTER 4
DEVELOPMENT FEES AND COSTS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Professional Fees And Other Costs
2-4-2: Escrow Of Funds
2-4-3: Escrow Agreement
2-4-1: PROFESSIONAL FEES AND OTHER COSTS:
   A.   Any person or other legal entity seeking the village's approval or
consideration of any matter shall be responsible for any professional fees or
other costs incurred by the village in reviewing the requested action or matter
and in acting upon the requested approval or consideration, including, but not
limited to, engineering fees, planning fees, attorney fees and other fees
incurred by the village.
   B.   Any such person or entity requesting consideration or action by the
village shall be required to deposit, pursuant to section
2-4-2 of this chapter, anticipated funds necessary to defray professional and
other costs to be incurred by the village.
   C.   Whenever any person or other entity is required by village ordinance or
rule, state or federal law, to submit plans, specifications or other documents
to the village engineer, attorney or other employee of the village, for his
review, comments and approval or disapproval, such person or entity shall be
responsible for the fees charged to the village in connection therewith.
   D.   Whenever any person or other entity shall, of his or its own volition,
submit plans, specifications or other documents to the village engineer,
attorney or other employee of the village, acting in his official capacity as
such employee of the village for his review, approval, disapproval or comments
upon such plans, specifications or other documents, the person or entity
submitting the same shall be responsible for the fees charged by the employee
in connection therewith.
   E.   Any person or firm who is required to pay money in accordance with this
chapter shall pay the same to the village promptly after request. The village
administrator shall be responsible for collecting the money and disbursing
same, on the approval of and at the direction of the village board, on account
of the fees and costs incurred for services rendered in connection with the
respective person or entity's submissions. (Ord. 2012-O-10, 8-22-2012)
2-4-2: ESCROW OF FUNDS:
   A.   It is the purpose of this section to require the deposit of necessary
funds by applicants prior to professional fees or other costs being incurred by
the village in those instances in which the village requires that the applicant
reimburse the village for any professional fees or other costs incurred by the
village in connection with the applicant's request.
   B.   The village administrator shall be responsible for the administration
of escrow of funds in all those instances in which the village's ordinances
require an applicant or other individual to reimburse the village for any
professional fees or other costs it may incur in processing that applicant's
request or matter. This chapter shall apply to all instances in which the
village's ordinances require that an applicant or other individual reimburse
the village for its professional expenses or other fees incurred or to be
incurred.
   C.   The village administrator shall, upon receipt of any matter, which may
or will require professional services to be rendered to the village, make a
good faith estimate of the amount of the cost of expected services based on the
nature of the matter, its complexity, the relative need for professional
advice, and the expected duration or processing of the matter. The village
administrator shall so notify the applicant in writing with the estimate of the
necessary funds to defray all professional costs the village might incur in the
course of reviewing the matter submitted by the applicant or other individual.
The village administrator shall also include in this communication a request
that the applicant deposit with the village, within fourteen (14) days, such
sum to be held in escrow. The application or matter shall not hereafter be
reviewed or acted upon by the village unless and until the sum is received by
the village. Upon receipt of the sum, the village administrator shall deposit
the same in a separate escrow account. All appropriate employees of the village
shall cooperate with the village administrator in determining the amount
necessary to be placed in escrow.
   D.   Simultaneously with the sending of notice to the applicant, the village
administrator shall also notify the professionals or others whom the village
expects to utilize to review the matter and request that those persons bill no
less frequently than monthly on such matter, and otherwise keep the village
apprised of time and costs expended in reviewing this matter.
   E.   The escrow funds as deposited shall be utilized to pay for professional
review and other costs and any and all disbursements therefrom shall be
approved by the village board and a copy of each disbursement shall be
available for review by the individual applicant who has deposited the funds.
   F.   The village administrator shall periodically review the escrow funds on
deposit to ensure that adequate funds are available to satisfy all professional
statements relating to the matter and all other costs incurred. If the escrow
funds on deposit are reduced to twenty percent (20%) or less of its original
amount (or any subsequent reduction(s) to 20 percent or less of the total
amount if and when replenished), the village administrator shall require
additional deposits into the escrow account from time to time in such amount or
amounts as the village administrator reasonably estimates will cover remaining
consultants' fees and costs. In the event that the village administrator
determines that sufficient funds are not available, the village administrator
shall so notify the applicant or other individual and request a further amount
to defray the anticipated additional costs in accordance with the standards of
this chapter. The professionals or other employees of the village engaged for
the matter shall be advised not to do any further work until the sum has been
received and the individual applicant shall be given fourteen (14) days to
deposit the additional funds. In the event that the funds are not deposited,
the village shall take no further action on the matter and shall so advise the
applicant or other individual.
   G.   At the conclusion of the matter and after all outstanding professional
fees and other costs incurred by the village in review of the matter have been
satisfied in full, the village administrator shall, subject to the approval of
the village board, remit the balance, if any, to the applicant or other
individual. (Ord. 2012-O-10, 8-22-2012)
2-4-3: ESCROW AGREEMENT:
Any person or other legal entity seeking the village's approval or
consideration of any matter pursuant to this chapter shall enter into a written
"escrow agreement" with the village prior to the village proceeding with any
stage of the approval or consideration process. The escrow agreement shall be
in substantially the following form:
   VILLAGE OF GREEN OAKS
   DEVELOPMENT ESCROW AGREEMENT
Escrow Number:     Initial Escrow: $   
Name and Information:
      Name:    
      Address    
      Phone:    
      E-mail    
Project Name:       
Project Location:       
For and in consideration of the Village processing my development inquiry and/
or application, the undersigned makes this escrow deposit with the Village of
Green Oaks. I understand and agree that this escrow account shall be a non-
interest bearing account.
The undersigned understands and agrees that the Village shall, from time to
time, draw from this escrow account in order to pay any reasonable fees and
costs of consulting professionals the Village deems necessary to consult with
pertaining to the subject project such as engineers, plan review services,
planners and attorneys. I also understand that I may request to review any and
all bills and statements for services rendered and costs incurred which have
been paid or reimbursed to the Village from this escrow account.
The undersigned further understands and agrees that when the escrow account
balance is reduced to 20% or less of its original amount (or any subsequent
reduction(s) to 20% or less of the total amount if and when replenished) that
the Village may require additional deposits into the escrow account from time
to time in such amount or amounts as the Village reasonably estimates will
cover remaining consultants' fees and costs.
The undersigned understands and agrees that if the escrow account is not
replenished when requested by the Village that the Village may, in its sole and
exclusive discretion, cease any further plan reviews, cease the further
processing of any pending applications, cease any further inspections and
refuse to issue any permits pending until such time as the escrow is
replenished by a further deposit in the amount requested.
When the project is complete and no further consultant expenses are reasonably
anticipated by the Village, the Village shall refund the remaining balance of
the escrow account to the person or entity making the most recent deposit.
Approved at the Village of Green Oaks, Illinois this           day of
                    , 20    .
Developer/Owner
By:    
Title (if Applicable)    
APPROVED:
Date:    
By:    
Village Title or Office    
(Ord. 2012-O-10, 8-22-2012)
TITLE 3
PUBLIC SERVICES
CHAPTER 1
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Rules of Construction
3-1-3: Rights Granted
3-1-4: Conditions of Grant
3-1-5: Service Considerations
3-1-6: Economic and Technological Provisions
3-1-7: Administration
3-1-8: Compensation
3-1-9: Municipal Rights Reserved
3-1-10: Term and Termination
3-1-11: Remedies
3-1-12: Nondiscrimination and Equal Opportunity
3-1-13: Laws, Rules and Regulations
3-1-14: Indemnification, Insurance and Performance Security
3-1-15: Miscellaneous Provisions
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms, phrases and words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given in this Section, unless the context
or use clearly indicates another or different meaning is intended.
CLERK: The Clerk of the Village of Green Oaks.
COMPETENT AUTHORITY: Includes any governmental body or forum vested by law with
authority to do the act or make the order, rule or regulation involved.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The President and Village Board of the Village of Green
Oaks.
EDISON EMERGENCY REPRESENTATIVE: The person or persons designated by the
Licensee responsible for the performance of the Licensee's duties under this
Chapter during emergencies and at all times other than the Licensee's regular
office hours and who shall be available and accessible to the Village for that
purpose during emergencies and at all times other than the Licensee's regular
office hours. The Edison representative may also be designated as the Edison
emergency representative.
EDISON REPRESENTATIVE: The person or persons designated by the Licensee to be
responsible for the day-to-day performance of the Licensee's duties under this
Chapter and who shall be available and accessible to the Village for that
purpose during regular office hours.
ELECTRIC SYSTEM: A system for the production, transmission, distribution and
sale of electricity for lighting, heating, power and other purposes within and
outside the corporate limits of the Village.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY/DSM: Applications of technologies and techniques for
increasing the efficiency of electric energy use or managing demand for
electric energy. Such applications may be designed to achieve greater end use
benefits from electric energy consumed, reductions in electric energy
consumption, shifts of electric energy demand to times when it can be met more
economically, or other initiatives designed to manage or reduce demand for
electric energy.
FERC: Refers to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or other authority
succeeding to the regulatory powers of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission.
GENERATING FACILITIES: Those facilities used or constructed by the Licensee for
the purpose of generating or producing electric energy.
HIGH VOLTAGE TRANSMISSION LINES: Power lines designed to transmit electricity
at 138 kilovolts (138 kv) or more.
ICC: The Illinois Commerce Commission or other authority succeeding to the
regulatory powers of the Illinois Commerce Commission.
LIABILITY: Includes, but is not limited to: actual or claimed loss or damage to
property or injury to or death of persons; actual or claimed responsibility for
such loss, damage, injury or death; and any and all judgments, decrees, costs
and expenses of every sort and kind incident to such loss, damage, injury,
death or responsibility, including but not limited to court costs, fines and
attorney's fees.
LICENSEE: The Commonwealth Edison Company.
MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC REPRESENTATIVE: The person or persons designated by the
Village to be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of this Chapter on
behalf of the Village during regular office hours.
MUNICIPAL EMERGENCY ELECTRIC REPRESENTATIVE: The person or persons designated
by the Village to be responsible for the implementation of this Chapter on
behalf of the Village during emergencies and at all times other than the
Village's regular office hours.
OTHER WAYS: Rights of way within the Village that are under the jurisdiction
and control of a governmental entity other than the Village.
OVERHEAD DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES: Poles, wires, cables and other overhead
apparatus used in the distribution of electricity of not to exceed 14,000
volts.
OVERHEAD FACILITIES: Transmission and distribution utility facilities located
on or above the surface of the ground, including the underground foundations or
supports for such facilities.
PERSON: One or more individuals, associations, firms, partnerships, trusts,
private corporations, Municipal corporations, receivers or trustees.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: All real property and all improvements thereon, owned, leased
to, leased by or otherwise controlled by the Village.
PUBLIC WAYS: The surface, the air space above the surface and the area below
the surface of any public right of way, including but not limited to any
street, highway, avenue, drive, boulevard, lane, path, alley, sidewalk,
waterway, bridge, tunnel, park, parkway or other public right of way including
public utility easements or rights of way over which the Village has
jurisdiction, and any temporary or permanent fixtures or improvements located
thereon now or hereafter held by the Village in which the Village holds rights
sufficient, without consent of any other person, to permit Licensee the use
thereof for the purpose of installing or maintaining Licensee's electric
system.
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES: Includes all lines, equipment and
structures used in the transmission, distribution or sale or electric energy,
wherever located. Transmission and distribution facilities include high voltage
transmission lines.
UNDERGROUND FACILITIES: Transmission and distribution facilities located under
the surface of the ground, excluding the underground foundations or supports
for overhead facilities.
UTILITY FACILITIES: Include, but are not limited to, property, land,
structures, equipment, plants, works, systems and improvements of the Licensee,
such as pipes, electric substations, conduits, wires, transformers, cables,
poles and meters, used in the production, transmission, distribution or sale of
electricity within the Village. Utility facilities includes all generating
facilities, transmission and distribution facilities, overhead facilities and
underground facilities.
VILLAGE: The Village of Green Oaks. (Ord. 92-26, 11-18-92)
3-1-2: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
This Chapter shall be construed in accordance with the following provisions:
   A.   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense
include the future tense, words in the plural number include the singular
number and words in the singular number include the plural number.
   B.   The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and the word "may" is
permissive.
   C.   The provisions of this Chapter shall be read as a whole so as to effect
the purposes of Ordinance 92-26.
   D.   Section headings are descriptive and used merely for the purpose of
organization. Where inconsistent with the text, section headings are to be
disregarded. (Ord. 92-26, 11-18-92)
3-1-3: RIGHTS GRANTED:
   A.   Grant of Right to Use Public Ways and Public Property: The Village
hereby grants to the Licensee the right, permission and authority to construct,
operate and maintain in and through the Village its electric system and to
construct, operate and maintain all such utility facilities as may be necessary
or convenient for such electric system, in, upon, along, over, across, above
and under the public ways and public property in the Village, for the period of
time and upon the terms and conditions hereinafter specified.
   B.   Emergency Access to Public Ways and Public Property: In the event of an
emergency which the Licensee reasonably believes poses a threat of immediate
harm to the public or to any of the utility facilities, the Licensee is hereby
granted access to the public ways and public property, without a permit, to
ameliorate the threatened harm. The Licensee shall promptly advise the Village
of the emergency.
   C.   Exemption from Parking Restrictions: While used in the course of
installation, repair and maintenance work on the utility facilities, Licensee's
vehicles shall be exempt from parking restrictions of the Village. (Ord. 92-26,
11-18-92)
3-1-4: CONDITIONS OF GRANT:
   A.   Construction and Location of Facilities:
      1.   The Licensee or any person acting on its behalf may construct,
repair, maintain, renew or replace utility facilities located in the public
ways, on public property or on other ways, subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The Licensee shall obtain a permit in accordance with the
applicable ordinances of the Village. The Licensee shall include with its
permit application such plans and schedules for restoration of the public ways
or public property as the Village may require by ordinance 1 .
         b.   The Licensee shall obtain all necessary approvals from any
competent authority for the performance of said work, and such work shall be
performed in accordance with the plans and specifications approved or
prescribed by competent authority.
         c.   Except as provided in this Chapter, neither the Licensee nor any
person acting on its behalf shall take any action or allow any action to be
done which may impair or damage the public ways, any property located on the
public ways or the public property.
         d.   Neither the Licensee nor any person acting on its behalf may
interfere unreasonably with the use of the public ways or public property by
the general public or by other persons authorized to use or be present upon
said public ways or public property.
         e.   The Licensee shall provide reasonable notice to the Village
before beginning any work in other ways within the Village.
         f.   To the extent practicable, the Licensee shall notify the Village
of plans to undertake any construction, repair, maintenance or replacement of
utility facilities in conjunction with the annual planning meeting provided for
in subsection
3-1-7H of this Chapter. This notice shall be in addition to any other notice
requirements imposed by other applicable ordinances. The notice requirements of
this subsection A1f do not apply to the installation of lateral service
connections to individual customers.
         g.   In the event of an emergency, if prior acquisition of formal
authorization is not possible, the Licensee or any person acting on its behalf
may undertake the work described above without first acquiring formal
authorization; provided that the Licensee uses its best efforts to contact the
Municipal emergency electric representative prior to performing such work, and,
provided further, that the Licensee shall apply for such formal authorization
at the earliest reasonable opportunity.
      2.   All transmission and distribution facilities erected hereunder shall
be placed in alleys wherever practicable so to do, and shall be so placed,
wherever located, so as not to interfere unnecessarily with travel on or access
to the public ways.
      3.   Unless specifically permitted by the Village, all utility facilities
erected under this Chapter shall be located so as not to injure any drains,
sewers, catch basins, water pipes, pavements or other public improvements.
      4.   All poles shall be of sufficient length to be anchored substantially
in the ground and to extend to a height of at least twenty five feet (25')
above the surface. Poles shall be adequately braced wherever necessary.
      5.   All wires, conductors, transformers and other apparatus that are
attached to utility poles shall be at a sufficient height to preclude
interference with free use of the public ways.
      6.   Prior to filing any application with a competent authority for the
construction of any generating facilities or high-voltage transmission lines
within the corporate limits of the Village, the Licensee shall meet with the
Village to discuss such plans.
      7.   Any utility facilities in the public ways that have been, or are at
any future time acquired, leased or utilized in any manner by the Licensee are
thereupon to be deemed authorized by and shall be subject to all the provisions
of this Chapter.
      8.   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Licensee shall not be
required to change the location, the height above, or the depth below the
public ways of those utility facilities in place as of the effective date
hereof.
   B.   Relocation or Removal of Facilities:
      1.   Upon receiving at least thirty (30) days' notice from the Village,
the Licensee shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently remove,
relocate, change or alter the position of any utility facilities in public ways
or public property whenever the corporate authorities shall have determined
that such removal, relocation, change or alteration:
         a.   Is reasonably necessary for the construction, repair,
maintenance, improvement or use of such public ways or public property;
         b.   Is reasonably necessary for the location, construction,
replacement, maintenance, improvement or use of other property of the Village;
or
         c.   Is reasonably necessary for the operations of the Village.
The Village agrees to engineer the projects in the public ways or public
property either so as not to require any such removal, relocation, change or
alteration or, if that is not reasonably feasible, so as to minimize the
Licensee's expenses in making such removals, changes or alterations. The
Licensee will not be responsible for the expense of removals, relocations,
changes or alterations required by the Village primarily for the purpose of
assisting either private projects or a Municipal electric utility.
      2.   Whenever it shall be necessary for the Village or any other person
to move along or across the public ways, any vehicle, equipment, structure or
other object of such height or size as will interfere with any of the
Licensee's overhead facilities, the Licensee shall temporarily remove such
overhead facilities from such place as must necessarily be crossed by such
vehicle, equipment, structure or other object; provided that:
         a.   The Licensee shall receive at least twenty four (24) hours'
notice thereof from the Village electric representative;
         b.   The Licensee shall have received payment for such removal, where
payment is required; and
         c.   Such temporary removal shall be done at such time of the day or
night as will least interfere with the Licensee's use of such wires and poles
for the benefit of the inhabitants of the Village and the successful operation
of the Licensee's electric system.
It is understood that the Licensee shall bear the expense of any such temporary
removals for projects being undertaken by or for the benefit of the Village or
its agent and that the expense of all other such temporary removals shall be
borne by the person requesting such removal. All questions as to the time when
any of said wires and poles shall be so cut, removed or adjusted for the
purpose aforesaid shall be decided by the Municipal electric representative,
and such decision shall be final.
   C.   Restoration of Public Ways or Public Property:
      1.   When the Licensee, or any person acting on its behalf, does any work
in or affecting the public ways or public property, it shall, at its own
expense, remove any obstructions therefrom and restore such public ways or
public property to as good a condition as existed before the work was
undertaken, unless otherwise directed by the Village.
      2.   If weather or other conditions do not permit the complete
restoration required by this subsection C, the Licensee may temporarily restore
the affected public ways or public property upon receiving the approval of the
Village electric representative; provided, that such approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld. Such temporary restoration shall be at the Licensee's
sole expense and the Licensee shall promptly undertake and complete the
required permanent restoration when the weather or other conditions no longer
prevent such permanent restoration.
      3.   Upon the request of the Village, the Licensee shall restore the
public ways or public property to a better condition than existed before the
work was undertaken; provided, that the Village shall bear any additional costs
of such restoration.
      4.   If the Licensee fails to restore the public ways or public property
or to remove any obstruction therefrom, as required by this subsection C, the
Village may, after communications with the Edison representative and after
affording the Licensee a reasonable opportunity to correct the situation, give
seven (7) days' written notice to the Licensee, and thereafter restore such
public ways or public property or remove the obstruction therefrom. No such
prior written notice shall be required in the event that the Village determines
that an emergency situation exists. The Licensee shall pay the Village for any
such restoration or removal within fourteen (14) days after receiving a bill
from the Village for such work.
   D.   Trimming of Trees and Vegetation: From time to time, when the Licensee
believes it to be warranted by existing conditions, the Licensee shall, at its
own expense, cause the trees and vegetation growing upon or overhanging any of
the public ways or public property in the Village where utility facilities are
erected to be trimmed in such a manner that there shall be a proper clearance
between the nearest wires or equipment and any portion of the trees or
vegetation. The trees and vegetation shall be trimmed so that no branches,
twigs or leaves come in contact with or in any way interfere with the utility
facilities. The Licensee shall notify the Village electric representative no
less than seven (7) days before it plans to perform such work. The Village
electric representative shall approve the time, place and manner of performing
such work.
   E.   Tree Location Program:
      1.   Tree Removal and Replacement: The Licensee and the Village agree to
develop a cooperative program for the removal and replacement of certain
Municipally owned trees located in the public ways or on public property which
conflict or potentially conflict with the overhead facilities. The trees to be
removed and replaced shall be designated by the Village after consultation with
the Edison representative. Within thirty (30) days after receipt of a written
notice from the Village of trees to be removed, the Licensee shall schedule a
removal date acceptable to the Village, and shall remove the designated trees
and dispose of all tree brush except that the Village shall dispose of all
stumps and logs over four inches (4") in diameter. The Village shall purchase,
plant and maintain all trees planted pursuant to the tree removal and
replacement program, and the Licensee shall reimburse the Village for one-half
(1/2) of the Village's cost of tree replacement, up to a maximum amount of one
hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) per tree. The reimbursement shall be made
to the Village within sixty (60) days after the Licensee's receipt of a written
request for reimbursement.
      2.   Tree Selection: The Village agrees to implement a policy for the
purpose of regulating tree planting on the public ways or public properties so
as to allow only such low-growing tree species as will not attain a mature
height that will conflict with primary electrical lines and thereby require
line clearance maintenance. Such policy shall not preclude planting upright,
columnar or pyramidal shaped trees to the side of power lines, thereby avoiding
the need for severe and disfiguring line clearance tree trimming.
      3.   Tree Location: The Village agrees that it will attempt to locate new
trees and other new vegetation on the public ways and public property so as to
minimize contact with utility facilities.
      4.   Duration of Program: The tree location program provided for in
subsections E1 through E3 of this Section shall remain in effect for the first
ten (10) years of this agreement, after which it shall be renewed on terms that
are mutually agreeable.
   F.   Use of Utility Facilities: The Licensee shall, when requested by the
Village, 1) permit its overhead facilities to be used for the suspension and
maintenance of wires and 2) permit its underground facilities to be used for
the running and maintenance of wires, both as may be reasonably required either
by the Village or by other persons holding a valid Municipal license or other
valid authorization to use the public ways or public property. Except as
provided in the following sentence, the Village shall be entitled to make such
use without charge. Such use by other persons, and such use by the Village for
a proprietary purpose, shall be subject to such terms and conditions, including
fees, as the Licensee may reasonably require. Such use of the utility
facilities shall be under the supervision and direction of the Licensee so as
not to materially interfere with the Licensee's present or reasonably
contemplated usage of the utility facilities. Such use may not be for the
purpose of allowing any person to transmit or distribute electricity. The
Village agrees to save and keep harmless the Licensee from any and all
liability incurred by the Licensee as a result of the Village's use of the
utility facilities pursuant to this subsection F. In no event shall the Village
be responsible for liability incurred by the Licensee as a result of the use of
the utility facilities by other persons.
   G.   Removal of Facilities: The Licensee shall promptly remove from the
public ways and public property all above ground wires and the supports
therefor whose use is abandoned and shall either promptly remove or board up or
render reasonably inaccessible all other utility facilities whose use is
abandoned or discontinued. The Licensee shall take reasonable steps to prevent
any such nonremoved utility facilities from becoming nuisances.
   H.   Undergrounding of Facilities: The Licensee will relocate its overhead
distribution facilities in or on public ways and public property in the
Village, other than alleys, by placing the overhead distribution facilities
under ground, or rerouting them if necessary, if so requested by the Village.
The overhead distribution facilities to be placed under ground or rerouted
shall not exceed five hundred feet (500') annually and will be determined by
the mutual agreement of the Licensee and the Village; the agreement of the
Licensee will not be unreasonably withheld. Scheduling of the requested work to
be performed will be in accordance with the Licensee's normal work scheduling
practices. The total cost for such work, including but not limited to material,
labor and overhead shall not exceed forty one-hundredths of one percent (0.40%)
of the revenues collected by the Licensee in the prior calendar year for
electric service in the Village; except that if, on or before November 15,
1991, the Licensee had made a written offer to the Village to underground its
overhead distribution facilities at the rate of either five hundred feet (500')
annually or two thousand five hundred feet (2,500') every five (5) years, then
the cost of such work shall not be subject to the foregoing limitation. The
number of feet available to be undergrounded or rerouted in any year which are
not utilized may be carried forward for utilization in future years. (Ord. 92-
26, 11-18-92)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  7-3-1 of this Code.
3-1-5: SERVICE CONSIDERATIONS:
   A.   Adequate Supply of Power: The Licensee shall at all times take all
reasonable and necessary steps to assure an adequate supply of electricity to
its customers within the Village at the lowest reasonable cost consistent with
long-term reliable supplies. The Licensee shall, from time to time, make such
enlargements and extensions of its facilities as are necessary to adequately
provide for the requirements of the Village and its residents.
   B.   Duty to Provide Electricity: The Licensee shall furnish electricity
within the corporate limits of the Village to the Village and to the
inhabitants thereof, and to any person or persons or corporation doing business
in the Village. All such electricity shall be furnished at the rates and under
the terms and conditions as provided, from time to time, by the ICC.
   C.   Nondiscrimination: The Licensee shall not, as to rates, charges,
service, facilities, rules, regulation or in any other respect, make or grant
any preference or advantages to any corporation or person or subject any person
to any prejudice or disadvantage; provided, that nothing in this grant shall be
taken to prohibit the establishment, from time to time, of graduated scales of
charges and classified rate schedules to which any customer coming within an
established classification would be entitled.
   D.   Maintenance of Facilities:
      1.   All utility facilities shall be maintained in good condition.
      2.   All utility facilities shall be maintained in such a manner that
they do not create hazardous conditions for the public ways or public property.
   E.   Service Interruptions:
      1.   The Licensee shall make all reasonable efforts to prevent power
surges and interruptions of service. When power surges or interruptions occur,
the Licensee shall reestablish service with the shortest possible delay
consistent with general safety and public welfare.
      2.   The Licensee shall make all reasonable efforts to notify the
Municipal electric representative or the Municipal emergency electric
representative of major service interruptions within the Village within one
hour after the Licensee learns of such interruption. If, at the time such
notification is made, the Licensee is not able to provide an estimate of when
service is expected to be restored, such information shall be provided to the
Municipal electric representative or the Municipal emergency representative as
it becomes available. A major service interruption is defined as: a) an outage
with an interrupted load of greater than 1,000 KVA and persisting for fifteen
(15) minutes or more; or b) any outage with a significant impact, as such term
may be defined by agreement between the Village and the Edison representative,
lasting fifteen (15) minutes or more.
      3.   No less than twenty four (24) hours prior to beginning scheduled
maintenance, scheduled repairs or other scheduled work on its utility
facilities that may result in an interruption of electric service to customers
in the Village, the Licensee shall make a good faith effort to provide written
notice to potentially affected customers and to the Municipal electric
representative of the scheduled time and estimated duration of the work. The
Licensee shall make a good faith effort to notify potentially affected
customers and the Municipal electric representative prior to performing any
emergency work on its utility facilities that may result in an interruption of
electric service to customers in the Village.
      4.   The Licensee shall keep records of interruptions affecting service
within the Village. An interruption will be considered as a failure of any
portion of the system or equipment whereby the voltage is reduced to less than
fifty percent (50%) of the standard voltage for a period longer than one
minute, except that where automatic reclosing equipment is used only "circuit
breaker lockout" shall be so considered, unless the ICC promulgates a rule or
regulation setting forth a different standard for defining an interruption;
provided, that the Licensee shall notify the Village of any docket opened by
any competent authority that would change the standard, and, provided further,
that the standard set forth herein shall remain in effect if the competent
authority sets no standard by rule or regulation. The record shall show the
date, time of day, duration, extent and cause of the interruption.
      5.   The Licensee shall also maintain records showing the average
customer outage frequency and duration both within the Village and for the
Licensee's system as a whole.
      6.   Upon the request of the Village, but no less than once a year, the
Licensee shall provide the Village with reports providing the information
contained in the records maintained pursuant to subsection E4 and E5 of this
Section.
      7.   On October 23, 1991, the Licensee filed with the ICC the rider set
forth in Exhibit A, attached to Ordinance 92-26 and on file in the office of
the Village Clerk, to provide for a service policy allowing customers whose
electric service is interrupted because of an operating error or equipment
malfunction for twelve (12) or more consecutive hours to receive a credit
against the monthly customer charge. (Ord. 92-26, 11-18-92)
3-1-6: ECONOMIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Technological Advances: The Licensee shall investigate, develop and
incorporate technological advances into its equipment and service in its sole
discretion and subject to order of competent authority. Upon the request of the
Village, the Licensee shall discuss such technological advances at the annual
meeting provided in subsection
3-1-7H of this Chapter.
   B.   Cogeneration and Small Power Production Facilities: The Licensee shall
provide, on a timely basis, such information as may reasonably be required for
interconnection with the Licensee's system by the Village, if the Village
desires to develop a qualifying facility, and by and person doing business in
the Village that desires to develop a qualifying facility related to its
business in the Village. A qualifying facility is a cogeneration facility or
small power production facility which meets the criteria for qualification set
forth in subpart B of 18 C.F.R. 292, as it may be amended, from time to time.
   C.   Demand Side Management: The Licensee shall make systemwide expenditures
in connection with the least cost planning process of twenty five million
dollars ($25,000,000.00) through 1996 in furtherance of its recognition of the
Village's strong commitment to energy conservation and compliance by the
Licensee with the least cost planning provisions of the Public Utilities Act.
In addition, to the extent that energy efficiency/DSM programs are identified
during the five (5) year period described above that are cost justified in the
good faith judgment of the Licensee, the Licensee shall expend at least an
additional twenty five million dollars ($25,000,000.00) in the implementation
of such programs. The Licensee shall implement cost-effective energy
efficiency/DSM programs, consistent with the Licensee's least cost planning
requirements as an integral part of the Licensee's provision of electricity to
its customers. Examples of programs which the Licensee will consider for its
energy efficiency/DSM program are home weatherization and the maintenance of
appliances and air-conditioning systems at peak efficiency. The Licensee shall
be required to implement only those energy efficiency/DSM programs that are
approved by the ICC and for which the Licensee can recover from its customers
1) program costs, 2) offsets for lost revenue and stranded investment (if any)
resulting from such program and 3) any appropriate return to the Licensee on
such costs, lost revenues and stranded investments, as approved by the ICC. The
Licensee shall provide the Village with notice of the specifics of the energy
efficiency/DSM programs within two (2) business days of the ICC's acceptance of
the Licensee's proposal for filing.
   D.   Environmental Protection: The Licensee shall make such efforts as it
deems necessary to meet the standards required for its utility facilities in
the Village to meet applicable Federal and State air and water pollution laws.
Upon the request of the Village, the Licensee shall discuss such environmental
matters at the annual meeting provided for in subsection
3-1-7I of this Chapter.
   E.   Economic Sources of Power: As part of its provision of electricity to
the Village, the Licensee shall take efforts to obtain electric power from
sources other than its electric system, when it considers obtaining such power
to be cost effective and as may be required by 83 Illinois Administrative Code,
part 430, as it may be amended, from time to time. In connection therewith, the
Licensee shall make such adjustments to its rates as required by the ICC. (Ord.
92-26, 11-18-92)
3-1-7: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Representatives:
      1.   The Licensee agrees to maintain such local offices and facilities as
it deems adequate for the purposes of providing repair and maintenance services
and personnel available during office hours to address concerns the Village
might have regarding the provision of electric service and the administration
of this Chapter. The Licensee shall provide the Village with the location and
telephone number of the local office and the name and telephone number of the
Edison representative.
      2.   The Licensee further agrees to maintain such local offices and
facilities as it deems adequate for the purpose of providing the Village with
twenty four (24) hour emergency service pertaining to the operation of the
utility facilities. The Licensee shall provide the Village with the location
and telephone number of the local office, the name of the Edison emergency
representative and the telephone number or numbers at which the Edison
emergency representative can be reached twenty four (24) hours a day.
      3.   The Village agrees to provide the Licensee with the name of the
Municipal electric representative and the telephone number or numbers at which
the Municipal electric representative can be reached during office hours.
      4.   The Village agrees to provide the Licensee with the name of the
Municipal emergency electric representative and the telephone number or numbers
at which the Municipal emergency electric representative can be reached twenty
four (24) hours a day.
      5.   The Village and the Licensee agree that each one will promptly
notify the other party in the event that any of the information required under
the foregoing subsections is changed, so as to keep such information current at
all times while this Chapter remains in effect.
   B.   Facilities Maps: Upon the request of the Village, the Licensee shall
provide the Village with a current map or set of maps, showing the location of
all utility facilities installed in or under public ways within the corporate
limits of the Village; provided, that the Licensee shall not be required to
prepare new maps to comply with this provision if no such maps exist.
   C.   Duty to Provide Information: The Licensee shall, from time to time,
furnish such additional information as the Village may reasonably deem to be
necessary to enable it to determine whether the Licensee is complying or has
complied with the provisions of this Chapter, other than those matters subject
to the exclusive jurisdiction of a competent authority other than the Village.
The Licensee shall not be required to provide information as to which it has a
legal privilege to refuse to provide.
   D.   Disclosures of Documents or Information: The Village agrees that no
documents or information provided to the Village by the Licensee in accordance
with this Chapter shall be made available to the public if such documents or
information are exempt from disclosure under the provisions of the Freedom of
Information Act or section 5-108 of the Public Utilities Act, as such statutes
may be amended, from time to time.
   E.   Inspection of Facilities: The Licensee shall permit the Village, at
reasonable times and upon reasonable notice, to inspect the utility facilities
within the corporate boundaries of the Village so as to determine whether the
Licensee is complying or has complied with the provisions of this Chapter,
other than those matters subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of a competent
authority other than the Village.
   F.   Superintendent of Public Works: The Superintendent of Public Works, or
such other person as the corporate authorities may designate from time to time,
is hereby designated the official of the Village having full power and
authority to take appropriate action for and on behalf of the Village to
administer and enforce the provisions of this Chapter and to investigate any
alleged violations or failures of the Licensee to comply with the provisions
hereof or to adequately and fully discharge its responsibilities and
obligations hereunder.
   G.   Notices:
      1.   Notice to Village: Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices
from the Licensee to the Village under this Chapter shall be made in writing
and delivered to the Village Administrator at the following address:
Ms. Elaine Palmer
Village Administrator
Village of Green Oaks
2020 O'Plaine Road
Green Oaks, Illinois 60048
      2.   Notice to the Licensee: Unless otherwise specified herein, all
notices from the Village under this Chapter shall be made in writing and
delivered to Ms. Kathryn Houtsma, Director, Regulatory Affairs, at the
following address:
Ms. Kathryn Houtsma
Director, Regulatory Affairs
Commonwealth Edison Company
P.O. Box 767
Chicago, IL 60690-0767
      3.   Changes in Person or Place for Notification: In the event that
either the Village or Licensee changes the person to whom written notices are
to be directed or the address to which such notices are to be sent, the party
making the change shall promptly notify the other party of such change in
writing.
      4.   All notices shall be effective upon their receipt by the person or
persons to whom they are directed.
   H.   Coordination of Construction Activities: The Licensee and the Village
agree to exercise their best efforts to coordinate to the extent practicable
the timing of construction activities of each so as to minimize any public
inconvenience that might otherwise occur. In conjunction with this goal,
shortly after January 1 of each year, as agreed by the parties, the Licensee
shall meet with the Village and such other users of the public ways as may be
invited by the Village to discuss scheduling of construction in the public ways
in that calendar year.
   I.   Annual Meeting: No less than once a year, the Licensee shall attend a
meeting of the corporate authorities to provide a status report of the
Licensee's activities within the Village during the previous year, to outline
its planned activities for the next year, and to answer questions the corporate
authorities may have regarding the Licensee's performance under this Chapter.
   J.   Notice of Boundary Changes: The Village agrees to notify the Licensee
in writing of any ordinance, statute or court or administrative action that
causes a change in the Village's boundaries. Failure to give such notice
excuses the Licensee both from noncompliance with this Chapter and from the
noncollection of Municipal utility taxes within the area affected until such
notice is given.
   K.   Notice of Regulatory Changes: In the event that either the ICC or the
FERC opens a docket or proposes an administrative rule that 1) would directly
affect the Licensee and 2) would, in the Licensee's opinion, be inconsistent
with or change any provision of or duty under this Chapter, the Licensee,
within seven (7) days of determining such inconsistency, shall notify the
Village of such docket or proposed rule and what it thinks is the
inconsistency. The Licensee shall make a good faith effort to make such
determination and to give such notice prior to the expiration of any
intervention period or comment period.
   L.   Notice of Actions Before Competent Authorities: In the event that the
Licensee becomes a party to any proceedings of a competent authority that 1)
would directly affect the Licensee and 2) would, in the Licensee's opinion, be
inconsistent with or change any provision of or duty under this Chapter, the
Licensee, within seven (7) days of determining such inconsistency, shall notify
the Village of such proceeding and what it thinks is the inconsistency. The
Licensee shall make a good faith effort to make such determination and to give
such notice prior to the expiration of any intervention period or comment
period.
   M.   Notice of Requests for Rate Changes: The Licensee shall notify the
Village of any applications the Licensee may make to the ICC to effectuate any
change in its rates, including the riders thereto. The notice shall be made in
accordance with the notice provisions of this Chapter, and shall be sent no
later than two (2) business days following the date on which the rate
application is accepted for filing by the ICC. For each rate or charge affected
by the application, the notice shall contain a statement of the existing rates
or charges and all proposed rates or charges. If the proposed rates or charges
are to be phased in over a period of time, the notice shall also contain a
statement of the proposed rates or charges for each increment and the time
period each incremental increase is to be in effect. Upon the written request
of the Village, the Licensee shall send the Village a copy of the complete
application filed with the ICC. This provision shall not apply to applications
filed solely for the purpose of effectuating Municipal utility taxes. (Ord. 92-
26, 11-18-92)
3-1-8: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Municipal Compensation: The Licensee will during each calendar year
throughout the life of this Chapter, supply without charge to the Village such
an amount of electric energy as may be reasonably necessary for:
      1.   Lighting and various other uses in Municipal buildings solely
occupied for Municipal purposes and not for purposes of revenue (or such part
thereof as may, from time to time, be so occupied) as may be identified as
eligible for such electric energy by the parties;
      2.   Traffic signals.
The foregoing arrangement shall be effective beginning with readings made after
the date hereof of meters measuring electric energy for the above purposes at
locations set forth in Exhibit B, attached to Ordinance 92-26 and on file in
the office of the Village Clerk. Exhibit B shall be amended, from time to time,
during the term of this Chapter so as to maintain a current list of the
locations and traffic signals eligible to receive service under the terms of
this Section. None of said electric energy so to be supplied without charge to
the Village shall be used by the Village for heating, street lighting, water
pumping or other such power purposes. Nor shall any of said energy be resold
for any purpose whatsoever.
   B.   Waiver of Certain Fees and Charges: The consideration provided to the
Village by this Chapter shall be in lieu of:
      1.   Any permit, license, inspection or other similar fees or charges
imposed by the Village upon persons for use of the public ways; or
      2.   Any permit of license fee imposed by the Village upon any persons
for the operation of a business similar to that conducted by the Licensee.
(Ord. 92-26, 11-18-92)
3-1-9: MUNICIPAL RIGHTS RESERVED:
   A.   Police Powers: The Village expressly reserves the right to adopt, from
time to time, in addition to the provisions contained herein, such ordinances,
rules and regulations as the corporate authorities may deem necessary in the
exercise of the police power for the protection of the health, safety and
welfare of the Village's citizens and their properties.
   B.   Regulation of Public Ways and Public Property: The Village expressly
reserves the right to enforce reasonable regulations concerning access to or
use of the public ways or public property, as may, from time to time, be
provided by ordinance, including requirements for permit applications.
   C.   Municipal Acquisition of Facilities:
      1.   Purchase: At any time while this Chapter remains in effect, upon
written notice from the Village to the Licensee, the Village may offer to
purchase from the Licensee any or all of the utility facilities located within
the Village, or any lesser interest thereof, free and clear of all mortgages
and other liens in any manner provided for by law.
      2.   Condemnation: Nothing herein shall be deemed or construed to impair
or affect, in any way or to any extent, the right of the Village to acquire the
property of the Licensee, either by purchase or through the exercise of the
right of eminent domain, and nothing herein contained shall be construed to
contract away or to modify or abridge, either for a term or in perpetuity, the
Village's right of eminent domain.
      3.   Continuation of Service: In the event the Village takes any action
pursuant to this subsection C, the Licensee agrees that it shall continue to
supply electric service within the Village and shall continue to comply with
the provisions of this Chapter until the acquisition of the utility facilities
has been finalized and the ICC has authorized the Licensee to discontinue
service within the Village.
   D.   Nonexclusive Grant:
      1.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to grant the Licensee an
exclusive franchise to operate within the corporate limits of the Village.
      2.   The Village reserves the right to make a similar use or grant a
similar use in the public ways to any other person.
      3.   The Village agrees to require all other contractors, subcontractors,
franchisees, licensees and permittees in the public ways not to interfere
unreasonably with the right of the Licensee in the public ways.
   E.   Right to Compete with Licensee. Nothing in this Chapter shall be
construed as a waiver of the Village's rights to own and operate an electric
utility in competition with the Licensee or to acquire any or all of the
Licensee's utility facilities in such manner as may, from time to time, be
provided by law.
   F.   Small Power Production and Cogeneration: The Village expressly reserves
the right to engage in the production of electric energy, both from
conventional power plants and from cogeneration and small power production
facilities. (Ord. 92-26, 11-18-92)
3-1-10: TERM AND TERMINATION:
   A.   Term: The franchise granted by this Chapter shall last for a term of
fifty eight (58) years from its effective date, except that, at the sole option
of the Village, it may be terminated at the end of the fifteenth year prior to
the year in which it would otherwise terminate; provided, that the Village
notifies Edison in writing of its intent to terminate within the first three
(3) months of the fifteenth prior year.
   B.   Acceptance: The Licensee shall accept this Chapter by filing with the
Clerk an unconditional written acceptance hereof, to be duly executed according
to law, along with proof of compliance required by subsections
3-1-14B and C of this Chapter. The failure of the Licensee to so accept this
Chapter within thirty (30) days of enactment shall be deemed a rejection hereof
by the Licensee, and the rights and privileges herein granted shall absolutely
cease and desist unless said period of time shall be extended by an ordinance
duly passed by the corporate authorities for that purpose before the expiration
of the thirty (30) day period.
   C.   Effective Date: This Chapter shall be in full force and effect upon the
Licensee's filing of its acceptance as provided hereinabove or upon its passage
and publication as required by law, whichever is later.
   D.   Reopener: At any time, but no more than once in any ten (10) year
period, either party may require both parties to negotiate in good faith on any
proposed amendment to this Chapter. The subject of any proposed amendment shall
be set forth in written notice.
   E.   Amendments: Except for the amendments to Exhibit B 1  required under
subsection
3-1-8A of this Chapter, no revision, modification or amendment of this Chapter
shall be effective unless it has been passed by the corporate authorities and
accepted by the Licensee in writing.
   F.   Renewal: At any time during the first sixty (60) days of the last year
occurring prior to the expiration date of this Chapter, Edison may request the
Village to enter into negotiations toward renewing or extending this Chapter.
Any renewal or extension shall be according to terms that are mutually
agreeable and the Village shall not be bound to accept any particular terms or
to renew any or all of the rights granted by this Chapter.
   G.   Termination: The rights and obligations of the Licensee under this
Chapter shall be terminated upon the end of the term of this Chapter, or at the
end of the fifteenth year prior to the term of this Chapter if the Village has
exercised its option to terminate under subsection A of this Section, or upon
the Licensee's forfeiture as provided in Section
3-1-11 of this Chapter.
   H.   Rights Upon Termination:
      1.   Upon any termination of its rights and obligations under this
Chapter, the Licensee shall not refuse to provide electric service to any
potential customers within the Village unless a petition for abandonment has
been filed with and approved by the ICC.
      2.   Notwithstanding the termination of the Licensee's rights and
obligations hereunder, by forfeiture or otherwise, the Licensee shall remain
subject to all other applicable regulations and authority of the Village,
without limitation, as long as the Licensee continues to provide electrical
service within the Village or the Licensee's utility facilities remain in the
public ways or on public property.
      3.   Any claims for indemnification for liability incurred by the
Village, its boards, committees, commissions, officers, agents and employees
arising from any incidents that occurred on or before the termination of this
Chapter shall survive the termination; provided, that such claims for
indemnification are timely made. (Ord. 92-26, 11-18-92)
 
Notes
1 1. Exhibit B is attached to Ordinance 92-26 and on file in the office of the
  Village Clerk.
3-1-11: REMEDIES:
   A.   Subject to the limitations in subsections B, C and D below, in the
event the Licensee or the Village fails to fulfill any of their respective
obligations under this Chapter the Village or the Licensee, whichever the case
may be, will have claims for breach of contract and specific performance
against the other in addition to any other remedy provided under this Chapter
or otherwise provided by law, except that no remedy that would have the effect
of amending the specific provisions of this Chapter shall become effective
without such action as would be necessary to formally amend the Chapter.
   B.   In the event that the Licensee violates any terms of this Chapter for
conduct that is subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of a competent authority
other than the Village, the sole remedy for such violation shall be before that
other competent authority. For purposes of determining the applicability of
this subsection B, no provision of this Chapter may be used as the sole basis
to defeat the exclusive jurisdiction of such competent authority.
   C.   In the event that the Licensee violates any term of this Chapter for
conduct that is also a violation of another applicable Village ordinance, the
Licensee shall be subject to remedies under that other ordinance plus ordinary
contract remedies under this Chapter. Licensee shall not be subject to be fined
under both subsection F of this Section and another ordinance of the Village
for the same conduct.
   D.   Subject to the limitation of subsection B of this Section, at the
option of the Village, upon the finding by the Village that the Licensee has
failed or refused to observe any terms and conditions of this Chapter, the
Village may notify the Licensee in writing of the terms and conditions which it
has not observed. The notice shall inform the Licensee of the actions which the
Licensee must take to correct the violation and shall grant the Licensee a
reasonable period of time to cure such failure or violation. In the case of an
emergency, the notice need not be made in writing. If a competent authority
other than the Village has determined that the action giving rise to the
Village's notice constituted a violation of an applicable rule, regulation or
order of such competent authority, then the cure period granted by the Village
shall be no less than the cure period ordered by such competent authority. If
the Licensee does not eliminate or correct such failure or violation in
accordance with the notice, the Licensee's rights under this Chapter may be
forfeited or the Licensee may be subjected to any other remedies afforded by
this Chapter, including the assessment of fines.
   E.   In the event that a competent authority revokes or suspends any
license, certificate or other authorization held by the Licensee for the
purpose of either operating any portion of its utility facilities within the
Village or providing electrical service within the Village, then the Licensee's
rights under this Chapter shall likewise be revoked or suspended, without
further notice from the Village. The Licensee's rights under this Chapter shall
be reinstated 1) if the competent authority rescinds its revocation or
suspension; 2) if the revocation or suspension order is overturned upon review
by a competent authority; 3) if the competent authority reinstates the
Licensee's license; or 4) if the suspension expires of its own terms. The
original termination date of this Chapter shall not be affected if the rights
forfeited under this Chapter are reinstated as provided herein.
   F.   If, after failing to correct a violation of the terms and conditions of
this Chapter in accordance with the notice issued to the Licensee under
subsection D of this Section, the Licensee is found guilty of violating any
provision of this Chapter for which the Village is a competent authority, then
the Licensee shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues. (Ord. 92-26, 11-18-92)
3-1-12: NONDISCRIMINATION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY:
   A.   Nondiscrimination: The Licensee represents that it will not
discriminate against any person employed or seeking employment with respect to
hiring, promotion or tenure, or to terms, conditions or privileges of
employment, on account of race, color, sex, religion, national origin or
ancestry, including without being limited to any employment practice whereby
the Licensee or any agency engaged or used by the Licensee makes inquiry with
respect to the race, color, sex, religion, national origin or ancestry of any
applicant for employment by the Licensee.
   B.   Affirmative Action:
      1.   The Licensee shall make good faith efforts to expand opportunities
for minorities and women in all areas of employment, including but not limited
to: hiring, promotion, recruitment or recruitment advertising, compensation,
and selection for training and apprenticeship.
      2.   The Licensee shall continue and expand its minority purchasing
program and its efforts to promote and enhance contracting opportunities for
minorities. (Ord. 92-26, 11-18-92)
3-1-13: LAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance with Laws, Rules and Regulations: While this Chapter remains
in effect, the Licensee shall promptly and fully comply with all applicable
statutes, ordinances, judgments, decrees, orders, rules and regulations of any
competent authority other than the Village having jurisdiction over the
Licensee's activities.
   B.   Compliance with Municipal Ordinances, Rules and Regulations: While this
Chapter remains in effect, the Licensee shall promptly and fully comply with
all applicable orders, rules, regulations and ordinances of the Village.
   C.   Violation of Laws, Rules and Regulations: Any claim by the Village that
the Licensee has violated any provision of this Section, shall be subject to
the procedures set forth in Section
3-1-11 of this Chapter. (Ord. 92-26, 11-18-92)
3-1-14: INDEMNIFICATION, INSURANCE AND PERFORMANCE SECURITY:
   A.   Indemnification: The Licensee shall indemnify, become responsible for
and forever save harmless the Village, its boards, committees, commissions,
officers, agents and employees from any and all liability incurred by them:
      1.   For loss or damage to property of the Licensee, its officers,
agents, employees, licensees and invitees in the public ways or on public
property pursuant to this Chapter or for injury to or death of any such
employee, agent or licensee while in the public ways or on public property
pursuant to this Chapter, however arising; and
      2.   Arising directly or indirectly from any act or omission of the
Licensee or any person acting on its behalf done or claimed to have been done
by virtue of or pursuant to this Chapter or by virtue of or pursuant to order,
rule, regulation or authorization by the ICC.
   B.   Comprehensive Liability Insurance or Self-Insurance: At all times while
this Chapter remains in effect, and in recognition of the indemnification
provided in the foregoing subsection A, the Licensee shall, at its own cost and
expense, maintain a program of third party liability insurance and/or self-
insurance to protect the Village, its officers, employees and agents from any
liability for bodily injury, death and property damage occasioned by the
activities of the Licensee under this Chapter. As proof of compliance with this
requirement, the Licensee shall, during the life of this Chapter, keep on file
with the Clerk a certificate of insurance and/or an affidavit of self-
insurance. Said certificate and/or affidavit shall show the types and amounts
of coverage. Any affidavit of self-insurance shall be signed by an employee or
officer of the Licensee who has knowledge of the Licensee's self-insurance
program and is authorized to make representations as to the scope of said
program, and shall contain a statement making such representations.
   C.   Indemnification Security: As security for the indemnification required
in subsection A of this Section, the Licensee shall, during the life of this
Chapter, keep on file with the Clerk a good and sufficient bond in the penal
sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) conditioned to protect and indemnify
the Village as provided in subsection A. Said bond shall be subject to the
approval of the corporate authorities.
The Village reserves the right:
      1.   To require the Licensee to renew said bond whenever, in the opinion
of the corporate authorities, such action may be necessary; and
      2.   To require the Licensee to increase the amount of said bond or to
provide additional or other security in the event said bond is insufficient to
fully cover a claim made against it; provided, that the amount of the increased
bond does not exceed the total amount of the claim made against it, and
provided further that the value or amount of such other or additional security
does not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or the total amount of the
claim made against the original bond, whichever is greater. (Ord. 92-26, 11-18-
92)
3-1-15: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Transfer and Assignment:
      1.   Except in the event of the merger, consolidation or reorganization
of the Licensee, the Licensee shall not have the right to assign its rights and
privileges under this Chapter or to otherwise transfer it in any manner
whatsoever, without the prior written approval of the Village, pursuant to an
ordinance enacted by the corporate authorities.
      2.   In the event of a transfer or assignment of the Licensee's rights
and privileges under this Chapter, all provisions of this Chapter which are
obligatory upon, or which inure to the benefit of, the Licensee shall also be
obligatory upon and shall insure to the benefit of any and all successors and
assigns of the Licensee.
   B.   Chapter as Contract: Ordinance 92-26 codified herein as Title 3,
Chapter 1 shall have the effect of and shall be a contract between the Village
and the Licensee and shall be a measure of the rights and obligations of the
Village as well as of the Licensee.
   C.   Chapter Requirements as Voluntary Undertaking: The Licensee and the
Village understand that the general operations of the Licensee are under the
jurisdiction of the ICC and the FERC. The Licensee has voluntarily agreed to
perform the duties and obligations set forth in this Chapter; provided, that
such performance does not violate any applicable regulatory standard or any
applicable statutes, ordinances or judgments or decrees of administrative or
judicial tribunal.
   D.   Scope of Chapter: No privilege or exemption is granted or conferred to
Licensee by this Chapter unless specifically provided herein. The permission
and authority granted by this Chapter are not intended to limit or modify any
agreement, franchise, license or permit previously granted by the Village to
any other person for the use or occupancy of the public ways, and the Licensee
shall therefor exercise the rights granted by this Chapter in such a manner as
shall neither unreasonably interfere with the rights, nor endanger or impair
the property, of other contractors, franchisees, licensees and permittees in
the public ways. The Village agrees to require other contractors, franchisees,
licensees and permittees of the Village to exercise their rights under such
agreements, franchises, licenses and permits in such a manner as shall neither
unreasonably interfere with the rights nor endanger or impair utility
facilities of the Licensee located in the public ways.
   E.   Expenses to be Borne By Licensee: Unless specifically provided to the
contrary, the Licensee shall be responsible for procuring, through rates or
otherwise, the revenues necessary to meet the expenses of its performance under
and its compliance with this Chapter.
   F.   Most Favored Nations Provisions:
      1.   In the event that the Licensee accepts from any Illinois
municipality, other than the City of Chicago, an electric ordinance or
amendments to an electric ordinance containing terms, conditions or provisions
different from those contained in this Chapter, or if any other arrangement is
at any time made with any municipality other than the City of Chicago, the
Licensee shall inform the Village in writing of such fact and provide a copy of
such ordinance or other arrangement to the Village. If, within ninety (90) days
of such notice, the Village adopts such other electric ordinance or other
arrangement of such other municipality, the Licensee agrees it will accept such
ordinance or other arrangement. In such event, the term of the new ordinance
will expire at the time the original ordinance was scheduled to expire, unless
otherwise agreed by the parties. Changes in the term of the Chapter or
arrangement shall be subject to the provisions of this Section, unless the
change in the term is for a period of more than fifty (50) years.
      2.   In the event that the Village grants any benefit to any other
electric utility regarding the use of the public ways, such benefit shall be
offered in writing to the Licensee, under the same terms and conditions, within
thirty (30) days after it has been granted to such other electric utility. If
the Licensee requests the extension of the benefit to it, the Village will take
such steps as to provide such benefit to the Licensee under the same terms and
conditions, including amending this Chapter accordingly.
   G.   Severability: If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this
Chapter shall be held invalid, the invalidity of such section, paragraph,
clause or provision shall not affect any of the other provisions of this
Chapter.
   H.   Repealer: All ordinances, resolutions or orders, or parts thereof, in
conflict with the provisions of this Chapter, or containing provisions granting
any right, privilege or license to the Licensee or to any of its predecessor
companies, including "An Ordinance Authorizing Commonwealth Edison Company
(Public Service Company Division), Its Successors and Assigns, to Construct,
Operate and Maintain an Electric Light and Power System in and through the
Village of Green Oaks, Lake County, Illinois", passed April 27, 1960, are
hereby repealed. However, any claims for indemnification timely and properly
made under that last named ordinance survive this repeal.
   I.   Force Majeure: The Licensee shall not be deemed in violation of this
Chapter for the delay in performance or failure to perform in whole or in part
its obligations under this Chapter due to strike, war or act of war (whether an
actual declaration is made or not), insurrection, riot, act of public enemy,
fire, flood or other act of God or by other events to the extent that such
events are caused by circumstances beyond the Licensee's control and are not
caused by negligence on the part of the Licensee or any person acting on its
behalf. In the event that the delay in performance or failure to perform
affects only part of the Licensee's capacity to perform its obligations under
this Chapter, the Licensee shall perform such obligations to the extent it is
able to do so in as expeditious a manner as possible. Licensee shall promptly
notify the Village electric representative in writing of any event covered by
this Section and the date, nature and cause thereof. Furthermore, Licensee, in
such notice, shall indicate the anticipated extent of such delay and the
obligations under this Chapter to be affected thereby. (Ord. 92-26, 11-18-92)
CHAPTER 2
GAS FRANCHISE
SECTION:
3-2-1: Grant of Authority
3-2-2: Excavations and Restoration Work
3-2-3: Maintenance of Structures
3-2-4: Street Opening Permit Required
3-2-5: Hold Harmless Agreement
3-2-6: Liability Insurance
3-2-7: Obligations Extend to Successors
3-2-8: Effective Date and Acceptance
3-2-1: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
The right, permission and authority are hereby granted for a term of fifty (50)
years to North Shore Gas Company, its successors and assigns, to construct,
operate and maintain in, under, along and across each and all of the public
streets, sidewalks, alleys, avenues, bridges, other public thoroughfares or
parkways within the present corporate limits of the Village, and in any
presently unincorporated area which may become annexed thereto, a system of
pipes, tubing, mains, feeding or service pipes and other devices, apparatus and
equipment as may be necessary or convenient for the construction, operation and
maintenance of a system for the production, distribution and sale of gas for
fuel, heating, processing and other purposes in and through the Municipality,
subject to the conditions and regulations hereinafter set forth.
3-2-2: EXCAVATIONS AND RESTORATION WORK:
Said Grantee, upon completion of any work involving excavation, shall leave the
surface of the ground in a neatly graded condition; provided further, that if
any sidewalks, parkways or pavements are disturbed by said Grantee, then said
Grantee shall restore them as soon as climatic conditions permit, to as good
condition as before said sidewalk, parkway or pavement was disturbed by said
Grantee. In the event that said sidewalk, parkway or pavement shall become
uneven, unsettled or otherwise require repair because of such disturbance by
said Grantee, then said Grantee, as soon as climatic conditions permit, shall
promptly, upon receipt of notice from the Municipality, cause said sidewalk,
parkway or pavement to be repaired or restored to as good a condition as before
said sidewalk, parkway or pavement was disturbed by said Grantee; and in the
event of any failure of said Grantee promptly to do so, or in the case said
restoration work is not satisfactory to the Municipality, the Municipality may
restore said sidewalk, parkway or pavement to said prior condition, the expense
of which work shall be paid by said Grantee, provided such expense is
consistent with competitive costs for similar work in the area.
3-2-3: MAINTENANCE OF STRUCTURES:
Said Grantee shall not open or encumber more of any street, sidewalk, alley,
avenue, bridge, other public thoroughfare or parkway at any one time than may
be reasonably necessary to enable said Grantee to construct or maintain said
pipes, tubing, mains, feeding or service pipes and other devices, apparatus and
equipment, nor shall said Grantee permit any said street, sidewalk, alley,
avenue, bridge, other public thoroughfare or parkway to remain open or
encumbered for a longer period than shall be reasonably necessary to complete
the intended work. Said Grantee shall use reasonable care to keep all
structures which it shall construct by virtue of this Chapter, in a safe
condition at all times, and shall maintain such barriers and danger signals
during the construction, repair or renewal of said structures as are reasonably
required to avoid damage to life, limb and property.
3-2-4: STREET OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED:
Said Grantee shall obtain from the Village Engineer a permit in connection with
openings to be made in the streets, sidewalks, alleys, avenues, bridges, other
public thoroughfares or parkways for maintenance, repair or renewal work or for
construction or installation of new pipes, tubing, mains, feeding or service
pipes or other devices, apparatus and equipment and said Grantee shall install
its tubing, mains, feeding or service pipes and other devices, apparatus and
equipment in such part or parts of said streets, sidewalks, alleys, avenues,
bridges, other public thoroughfares or parkways in the Municipality as
authorized; provided however, that emergency work may be done without prior
permit when necessary to prevent interruption in service or for protection of
public safety, and permits therefor shall be obtained as soon as practically
convenient thereafter. In addition, said Grantee, prior to the installation of
gas mains pursuant to this Chapter, shall file with said Village Engineer, for
his information and use, working drawings of said mains, and, if requested,
shall file with said Village Engineer, for his information and use, permanent
maps of said gas mains, which maps shall be updated annually.
3-2-5: HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT:
Said Grantee shall hold and keep the Municipality harmless from any and all
damages to persons or property resulting from acts or omissions of said
Grantee, its officers, agents or servants, in the construction and operation of
all work.
3-2-6: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Grantee shall, at its sole cost and expense, insure against the liabilities
assumed under Section
3-2-5 herein by maintaining general public liability insurance, including
contractual liability coverage, against claims for personal injury, death or
property damage arising within the territory for which this franchise is
granted, such insurance to afford excess protection in the amount of one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) beyond the usual and customary deductible
amounts for a public utility as provided in such insurance policies. All
policies shall be written in companies customarily used by public utilities for
said purposes and certificates therefor shall be delivered to said Municipality
not less than ten (10) days prior to the expiration of any then current policy.
3-2-7: OBLIGATIONS EXTEND TO SUCCESSORS:
All provisions of this Chapter which are obligatory upon, or which inure to the
benefit of, said North Shore Gas Company shall also be obligatory upon, and
shall inure to the benefit of, any and all successors and assigns of said
corporation, and the word "Grantee", wherever appearing in this Chapter, shall
include, and be taken to mean, not only said North Shore Gas Company, but also
each and all of said successors and assigns. All provisions of this Chapter
which are obligatory upon, or which inure to the benefit of the Village, shall
also be obligatory upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, any and all
successors and assigns of the Municipal corporation, and the word
"Municipality", wherever appearing in this Chapter, shall include, and shall be
taken to mean, not only the Village of Green Oaks, but also each and all of
said successors and assigns.
3-2-8: EFFECTIVE DATE AND ACCEPTANCE:
This Chapter, if accepted by said Grantee as hereinafter provided, shall be in
full force and effect on and after its passage and acceptance thereof by said
Grantee, and after delivery of the certificates of insurance hereinabove
required, and shall, from and after the effective date, supersede, cancel and
be in lieu of any and all other existing or prior grants of right, permission
and authority to said Grantee or any predecessor companies or assignors of said
Grantee, to construct, operate and maintain any system for the production,
distribution and sale of gas for fuel, heating, processing and other purposes
within the Municipality. Within thirty (30) days after the approval of this
Chapter, said Grantee shall file with the Municipality, acceptance in writing
of all of the terms and provisions thereof. (Ord. 85-08, 11-27-85)
CHAPTER 3
TELEPHONE FRANCHISE
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definition
3-3-2: Grant of Authority
3-3-3: Liability of Company
3-3-4: Poles and Wires
3-3-5: Excavations
3-3-6: Moving Buildings, Duty of Company
3-3-7: Use of Company Property for Municipality's Police and Fire Alarm Signal
Wires
3-3-8: Payment for Access Lines
3-3-9: Vacation of Public Ways
3-3-10: Rescission of Contract
3-3-11: Previous Franchises Repealed
3-3-12: Franchise Effective Upon Acceptance by Company
3-3-1: DEFINITION:
Whenever the word "Company" or the words "Illinois Bell Telephone Company" are
used in this Chapter, they shall be construed to mean the Illinois Bell
Telephone Company, its lessees, successors and assigns, and this Chapter shall
be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, its lessees,
successors and assigns.
3-3-2: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
The Illinois Bell Telephone Company, (hereinafter called the Company), its
lessees, successors and assigns, are hereby granted the right to construct,
erect, renew, maintain and operate in, upon, along, across, under and over the
streets, alleys and public ways of the Village of Green Oaks (hereinafter
called the Municipality), lines of poles, anchors, wires, cables, conduits,
vaults, laterals and other fixtures and equipment, and to use the same for the
transmission of sounds and signals by means of electricity, and especially for
the conduct of a general telephone business. (Ord. 80-05, 5-28-80)
The term of this Chapter shall be for the period of three (3) years beginning
January 1, 1984, and extending to December 31, 1986, and thereafter until
terminated by sixty (60) days' written notice, either by the Municipality to
the Company, or by the Company to the Municipality. (Ord. 85-01, 2-27-85)
3-3-3: LIABILITY OF COMPANY:
The Company shall, at its own expense, defend all suits that may be brought
against the Municipality on account of or in connection with the violation by
the Company of the obligations hereby imposed upon or assumed by it, or by
reason of or in connection with any damage to life, limb or property as a
result of any of the structures constructed by it under or by virtue of this
Chapter, and shall save and keep harmless the Municipality from any and all
damages, judgments, costs and expenses of every kind, that may arise by reason
thereof; provided, that notice in writing shall be immediately given to the
Company of any claim or suit against the Municipality which, by the terms
hereof, the Company shall be obligated to defend, or against which the Company
has hereby agreed to save and keep harmless the Municipality and provided
further that the Municipality shall furnish to the Company all information in
its possession relating to said claim or suit, and cooperate with the Company
in the defense of said claim or suit. The governing body of the Municipality
may, if it so desires, assist in defending any such claim or suit, but solely
under the direction of the Company or its attorneys, and the company shall not
be required to reimburse the Municipality for expenses incurred by it in case
of the election so to assist.
3-3-4: POLES AND WIRES:
   A.   Location and Height:
      1.   Existing Structures: The location and height above or the depth
below the public thoroughfares of the existing lines of poles, anchors, wires,
cables, conduits, vaults, laterals and other fixtures and equipment of the
Company within the Municipality are hereby approved, and the same shall be
maintained and operated under and subject to the provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   New Structures: The height above public thoroughfares of all aerial
wires and cables hereafter constructed shall conform to the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission or other regulatory body having jurisdiction
thereof.
   B.   Alteration or Extension, Permit Required: Any change in or extension of
any of said poles, anchors, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals or other
fixtures and equipment (herein referred to as "structures"), or the
construction of any additional structures, in, upon, along, across, under or
over the streets, alleys and public ways of the Municipality shall be made
under the direction of the chairman of the Committee on Streets and Alleys of
the Municipality, or such officer as may be designated from time to time by the
governing body of the Municipality for that purpose, who shall if the proposed
change, extension or construction conforms to the provisions hereof, issue
written permits therefor.
   C.   Interference with Public Property Prohibited: All structures hereafter
installed shall be so placed, and all work in connection with such installation
shall be so performed as not to interfere unreasonably with ordinary travel on
the highways of the Municipality or with any Municipal water or sewer pipes
then in place.
   D.   Change of Street Grade or Width: In case of bringing to grade or change
of grade, or change of width of any street or alley, the Company, provided it
is notified thereof in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to the
commencement thereof, shall change its structures so as to conform thereto,
except where such change of grade or the width of any street or alley is made
in connection with the rearrangement, separation or alteration of railroad
crossings or is incident to any such rearrangement, separation or alteration.
   E.   Vaults: The tops of all vaults constructed by the Company within the
Municipality shall present an even surface with the pavement at the point where
laid, and, subject to the exception contained in subsection D above, shall be
lowered or raised by the Company to conform to the top of paving or improvement
as required by the governing body of the Municipality whenever the grade of the
street or alley in which any such vault is located may be at any time hereafter
lowered or raised.
3-3-5: EXCAVATIONS:
The Company, after doing any excavating, shall leave the surface of the ground
in a neatly graded condition. All sidewalks, parkways or pavements disturbed by
the Company shall be restored by it to as good condition as before said
sidewalk, parkway or pavement was disturbed by it, and in the event that any
such sidewalk, parkway or pavement shall become uneven, unsettled, or otherwise
require repairing, because of such disturbance by the Company, then the
Company, as soon as climatic conditions will permit, shall, promptly upon
receipt of notice from the Municipality so to do, cause such sidewalk, parkway
or pavement to be repaired or restored to as good condition as before said
sidewalk, parkway or pavement was disturbed by the Company. The Company shall
keep all structures which it shall construct by virtue of this Chapter in a
reasonably safe condition at all times, and shall maintain such barriers and
danger signals during the construction, repair or renewal work performed
hereunder as will reasonably avoid damage to life, limb and property.
3-3-6: MOVING BUILDINGS, DUTY OF COMPANY:
The Company, after five (5) days' written notice from the governing body of the
Municipality to do so, shall remove or raise or lower its structures
temporarily to permit the moving of a building or any other object along a
highway, provided the benefited party or parties shall agree to pay the Company
an amount equal to the actual cost of effecting such temporary changes in its
structures; and provided further that, pending the determination of such actual
cost, the benefited party or parties shall have deposited with the Company an
amount equal to the cost as estimated by the Company. Should any amount of such
deposit remain unexpended, after deducting the actual cost involved, said
amount shall be returned to the party making the deposit.
3-3-7: USE OF COMPANY PROPERTY FOR MUNICIPALITY'S POLICE AND FIRE ALARM SIGNAL
WIRES:
In consideration of the foregoing grant, while the Company is using any pole or
poles erected or maintained hereunder, it will permit the Municipality the use
of space, if such space is not required for Company needs, for attaching the
Municipality's police and fire alarm signal wires, provided that the police and
fire alarm system is provided to the public without charge. Any such
attachments are to be in accordance with specifications designated by Company
and all work will be performed by the Municipality at its expense, at the top
of the space available for the use of the Company on any of said poles, it
being understood that the poles upon which space is permitted the Municipality
shall be considered, for the purpose of this agreement, as personal property;
provided that such wires shall be so placed and maintained by the Municipality
that the use of the same will not interfere with the operation and maintenance
of the Company's equipment or its use of said poles; and provided further that
a thirty inch (30") climbing space shall be maintained between the pole pins on
poles jointly used with another public utility. All such police and fire alarm
signal wires shall be attached and maintained under the direction and
supervision of the Company's authorized representatives and only in compliance
with any rules for construction and maintenance of electric power and
communication lines as may be ordered by the Illinois Commerce Commission. The
Municipality shall, at its own expense, defend all claims, demands, or suits on
account of any injury to life, limb or property that may result by reason of or
in connection with the presence, use, maintenance, erection or removal of the
Municipality's police and fire alarm signal wires and their appurtenances
pursuant hereto, and hereby agrees to save and keep harmless the Company from
any and all damages, judgments, costs and expenses of any kind which may arise
by reason thereof. (Ord. 80-05, 5-28-80)
3-3-8: PAYMENT FOR ACCESS LINES:
   A.   So long as the Company exercises and enjoys the rights granted to it
hereunder, it shall pay to the Municipality for each access line that the
Company maintains and operates within the Municipality: $0.256 per access line
per month for the calendar year 1984, retroactive to January 1, 1984; $0.288
per access line per month for the calendar year 1985; and $0.320 per access
line per month for the calendar year 1986 (hereinafter "access line value");
provided, however, that the amount paid in such years shall not be less than
the payment that the Municipality is entitled to or has received under a prior
interim agreement dated December 30, 1983, for the period commencing January 1,
1984, nor in any event shall the payments be less than the amounts the
Municipality received either in cash or value of services rendered for the
calendar year 1983. The Company shall make said payments on a monthly basis,
due the last day of the succeeding calendar month. "Access line" as used in
this Section shall mean "the connecting facility between a customer's premises
and the Company's serving central office that provides customer access to the
dial network for placing and receiving calls". "Within the Municipality" means
within the corporate boundaries of the city, village or incorporated town named
in this Chapter as recorded with the appropriate county recorder and as
provided to the Company. Municipality agrees to notify the Company of any
ordinances annexing to or disconnecting from such corporate boundaries and
agrees to provide to the Company in accurate map of such changes showing, if
available, street name and number detail.
   B.   The access line values specified in this Section are based upon
aggregate franchise payments by the Company to all Illinois municipalities
(except Chicago) within the Company's operating area (hereinafter "Illinois
Municipalities") of $8.0 million for the calendar year 1984, $9.0 million for
the calendar year 1985 and $10.0 million for the calendar year 1986
(hereinafter "agreed franchise payments"). If the Company's actual annual
franchise payments to all Illinois Municipalities, whether paid or accrued,
differ from said agreed franchise payments, such difference in amount shall be
adjusted in January of the succeeding year. Such difference in amount shall be
divided by the number of the Company's access line value for said month of
January. Thereafter, the access line value specified in subsection A of this
Section shall be used for each succeeding month in such calendar year.
   C.   Company shall, within forty five (45) days of the effective date of
this Chapter, make an appropriate adjustment between payments to which the
Municipality is entitled under this Chapter and payment that the Municipality
is entitled to or has received under a prior interim agreement dated December
30, 1983, for the period commencing January 1, 1984.
   D.   Company agrees to provide annually, within a reasonable time from
Municipality's request, the names, addresses and number of access lines for
each of its customers within the Municipality, subject to Municipality's
agreement not to disclose said information, which Municipality agrees shall be
used solely for the purposes of verifying the number of Company's access lines
within the Municipality. Company further agrees to substantiate, upon request,
the contents of such report and all records and other documents required for
such verification shall, upon reasonable advance notice, be subject to
inspection by the Municipality.
   E.   The Company, without charge and when directed by the chief executive
officer of the Municipality, shall move within the same premises the customer
premises wire associated with each access line provided to the Municipality by
the Company, provided that not more than one such change of location in any one
year per access line shall be made by the Company without expense to the
Municipality. "Customer premises wire" is defined as any wire beginning on the
customer's side of the network interface or equivalent and ending at the
registration jack or connecting block, exclusive of wiring associated with key
or PBX systems and their serving terminals or main distribution frames.
   F.   The provisions of this Section shall be renegotiated upon thirty (30)
days' written notice from one party to the other at any time on or after June
30, 1986. (Ord. 85-01, 2-27-85)
3-3-9: VACATION OF PUBLIC WAYS:
So long as the Company exercises the rights granted to it hereunder and so long
as the Municipality shall receive the considerations therefor as recited in
Sections
3-3-4,
3-3-7 and
3-3-8 hereof, the Municipality will not, by ordinance or otherwise, vacate any
street, alley or public way in which the Company has its structures installed
without reserving the following easement rights: Illinois Bell Telephone Co.,
its successors and assigns, are granted the right to construct, reconstruct,
add to, remove, operate, and maintain communication systems consisting of such
poles, anchors, guys, wires, cables, conduits, terminals, manholes, and other
fixtures as said Company may from time to time require, together with the right
of access to the same in aforesaid described vacated alley or street.
3-3-10: RESCISSION OF CONTRACT:
In case the Company shall fail or neglect to comply with any or all of the
provisions of this Chapter (unless by order of the Illinois Commerce Commission
or of any other body, board, commission or court of competent jurisdiction, the
Company is otherwise directed, or unless compliance by the Company with such
provision is prohibited or adjudged unlawful by an order of the Illinois
Commerce Commission or by an order of any other body, board, commission or
court of competent jurisdiction), the Municipality reserves the right to repeal
this Chapter or rescind this contract, and forfeit the rights hereby created or
sought to be created, provided that no such repeal, rescission or forfeiture
shall exist or be claimed because of such failure or neglect, until written
notice of such failure or neglect so claimed shall have been given to the
Company, and a reasonable opportunity afforded it to comply with the provisions
hereof or to prove that such compliance already exists. In the event that the
Illinois Commerce Commission or any other body, board, commission or court of
competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision or provisions hereof invalid
or illegal, or direct a change by the Company in any matter or thing herein
contained, such invalidity or illegality or change shall in no way affect the
remaining provisions of this Chapter, or their validity or legality, and this
Chapter in all other respects shall continue in full force and effect, as if
said provision or provisions had not been so adjudged invalid or illegal or
such change directed.
3-3-11: PREVIOUS FRANCHISES REPEALED:
All grants, franchises, rights, licenses and privileges heretofore made or
granted by the Municipality by ordinance or otherwise to the Company and all
rights of the Company under grants, franchises, rights, licenses and privileges
made by the Municipality to others from which the Company may have purchased
any part of its poles, lines, equipment or plant, are hereby revoked and
repealed, it being the intention that this Chapter shall contain all grants,
franchises, rights, permits, licenses and privileges of the Company, and all
obligations of the Company in connection therewith and that the considerations
as recited in Sections
3-3-4,
3-3-7 and
3-3-8 shall be in lieu of any and all other license, permit, inspection or
occupancy fees for the erection, placing, maintenance and operation, including
opening and closing excavations in the streets, alleys and public ways, of the
Company's facilities and equipment in the Municipality.
3-3-12: FRANCHISE EFFECTIVE UPON ACCEPTANCE BY COMPANY:
This Chapter shall be in full force upon receipt, by the Clerk of the
Municipality, of the Company's written and unconditional acceptance of all of
the provisions of this Chapter executed by its proper officers thereunto duly
authorized, under the corporate seal of the Company, and attested by its
secretary or assistant secretary. (Ord. 80-05, 5-28-80)
CHAPTER 4
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM FRANCHISE
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Grant of Authority
3-4-3: Acceptance by Company
3-4-4: Jurisdiction
3-4-5: Term of Franchise
3-4-6: Liability, Responsibilities of Company
3-4-7: Rules and Regulations
3-4-8: Rights and Responsibilities of Village
3-4-9: Franchise Fee
3-4-10: Reports and Records
3-4-11: Service Rates and Charges
3-4-12: Construction and Maintenance Requirements
3-4-13: Programming and Services
3-4-14: Insurance Required
3-4-15: Bond
3-4-16: Sale or Transfer of System
3-4-17: Termination of Franchise
3-4-18: Declaration of Forfeiture
3-4-19: Company Office
3-4-20: Prohibitions
3-4-21: Removal of Company Equipment
3-4-22: Franchise Non-Exclusive
3-4-23: Penalties
3-4-24: Severability
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include future, words in the
plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
BASIC CABLE SERVICES: The simultaneous delivery by Grantee to television
receivers, or any other suitable type of audio-video communication receivers,
of that service regularly provided to all of its subscribers, including all
broadcast signals authorized for carriage by the FCC and all regular non-
broadcast signals provided to all of its subscribers, but excluding additional
services and pay television.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The Board of Trustees of the Village of Green Oaks,
Illinois.
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or CATV: A non-broadcast facility consisting of a set
of transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception and control
equipment that distributes or is designed to distribute to subscribers, the
signals of one or more television broadcast stations. Such term shall not
include any such facility that serves fewer than fifty (50) subscribers and any
system which serves only the residents of one or more apartment dwellings under
common ownership, control or management.
COMPANY: The grantee of rights under this Chapter.
GROSS RECEIPTS: All monies and other things of value received directly or
indirectly by the Company from all services generated by the system facilities,
or from the use of the system facilities, including, but not limited to data
transmission, alarm or signal transmission, advertising revenue, charges to
subscribers for basic cable service and all other services, premium
programming, FM services, installation charges, and any and all revenue
received from any source whatsoever for the use of the system facilities for
the transmission of electronic or microwave impulses, provided, however, that
isolated sales of facilities or equipment employed by the Company in rendering
such services shall be excluded. Gross revenues shall also include all monies
or other things of value received by any affiliated person, subsidiary,
partnership, or wholly or partially owned corporation related to the company
with respect to the system facilities. In cases where advertising or other
revenue related to an area covered by more than one cable television franchise,
such revenue shall be prorated according to the population of each franchised
area and so allocated. The portion allocated to the Village shall be included
in gross revenues herein. The gross revenue fee shall not supersede or replace
normal taxes, i.e., property, vehicle.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PREMIUM PROGRAMMING: Programming for which a charge in addition to the basic
charge is made.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person, firm or corporation receiving service and paying the
rates as referred to in Section
3-4-11 hereof.
SYSTEM FACILITIES: A system composed of, without limitation, antennas, cables,
wires, lines, towers, amplifiers, conduits, converters, equipment or
facilities, designed, constructed or wired for the purpose of producing,
receiving, amplifying, and distributing by coaxial cable, fiber optics,
microwave or other means, audio and/or visual radio, television, electronic or
electrical signals to and from subscribers.
VILLAGE/MUNICIPALITY: The Village of Green Oaks.
3-4-2: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
   A.   The Village hereby grants to U.S. Cable of Lake County (hereinafter the
"Company") the right, privilege and franchise to acquire, construct and operate
a cable television system in the Village and to sell and supply audio and video
cable television services within the Village, subject to conditions and
restrictions set forth herein.
   B.   The Village hereby grants to the Company, the right to construct,
maintain and operate in or upon the streets, highways, sidewalks, bridges and
other public ways and lands in the Village, equipment, structures, facilities,
apparatus and appurtenances of any nature which are or which may be used in or
reasonably necessary for the business of providing audio and video cable
television services, subject to conditions and restrictions set forth herein.
3-4-3: ACCEPTANCE BY COMPANY:
This franchise shall be accepted by the Company in writing on or before the
expiration of sixty (60) days from the effective date hereof.
3-4-4: JURISDICTION:
The Company shall provide service to all residents within the present corporate
limits of the Village and shall provide service to any additional annexed
areas.
3-4-5: TERM OF FRANCHISE:
The rights, privileges and franchises granted the Company herein shall
terminate on March 23, 2000. (Ord. 96-22, 11-20-1996)
3-4-6: LIABILITY, RESPONSIBILITIES OF COMPANY:
   A.   It is expressly understood and agreed by and between the Company and
the Village, that the Company shall save the Village harmless from any loss and
related expenses (including reasonable attorney fees) sustained by the Village
on account of any suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand whatsoever,
resulting from negligence on the part of the Company in the construction,
operation or maintenance of its television system in the Village. The Village
shall notify the Company's representatives in the Village, within ten (10) days
after the presentation of any claim or demand, either by suit or otherwise,
made against the Village on account of any negligence as aforesaid on the part
of the Company.
   B.   The Company shall maintain and operate its system and render efficient
service in accordance with the rules and regulations as are, or may be, set
forth by the Board of Trustees as provided for in this Chapter.
   C.   Whenever it is necessary to shut off or interrupt service for the
purpose of making repairs, adjustments or installations, the Company shall do
so at such time as will cause the least amount of inconvenience to its
customers and unless such interruption is unforeseen and immediately necessary,
it shall give reasonable notice thereof to its customers.
   D.   The undertaking in connection with subsection A of this Section
includes liabilities or claims of liability with respect to property damage,
personal injury, invasions of the right of privacy, defamation of any person,
the violation or infringement of any copyright, trademark, tradename, service
mark, or patent, or of any other right of any person, and failure of the
Company to comply with the provisions of any Federal, State or local statute,
ordinance, rule or regulation applicable to the Company in connection with this
Chapter.
   E.   The Company expressly acknowledges that upon accepting the right,
privilege and franchise granted by this Chapter, it did so relying upon its own
investigation and understanding of the power and authority of the Municipality
in connection with the system and this Chapter. By the acceptance of this
franchise, the Company agrees that it will not at any time set up against the
Municipality in any claim or proceeding any provisions, conditions or terms of
this Chapter as unreasonable, arbitrary or void or that the Municipality had no
power or authority to make such provision, term, condition or part of this
Chapter. (Ord. 82-03, 3-24-1982)
3-4-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: The Company shall at all times comply with all
applicable Federal, State and local laws and regulations, including, but not
limited to, the Customer Service Standards promulgated by the Federal
Communication Commission ("FCC") in Regulations part 76, section 76.309. Within
one year of adoption by the FCC of modifications or additions to its rules and
regulations relating to the permissible terms of cable television franchises,
this franchise shall be conformed to such rules and regulations. (Ord. 96-22,
11-20-1996)
   B.   Authority Of Company: The Company shall have the authority to
promulgate such rules, regulations, terms and conditions governing the conduct
of its business as shall be reasonably necessary to enable the Company to
exercise its right and perform its obligations under this franchise, and to
assure an uninterrupted service to each and all of its customers. Provided,
however, that such rules, regulations, terms and conditions shall not be in
conflict with the provisions herein or of Federal, State and local laws,
including the rules and regulations set forth by the Board of Trustees.
   C.   Authority Of Village: The right is hereby reserved to the Village to
adopt and enforce in addition to the terms, conditions and provisions contained
in this Chapter and in otherwise existing applicable ordinances, such
additional ordinances, rules and regulations as it shall find necessary in the
exercise of the police powers; provided, that such ordinances, rules and
regulations shall be reasonable and not in material or substantial conflict
with the rights herein granted. (Ord. 82-03, 3-24-1982)
   D.   Basic Service Rates: The Village shall regulate the basic service rates
and charges of all cable system operation franchisees, including, without
limitation, the existing franchisee, U.S. Cable, in accordance with the
regulations as prescribed by the FCC in the "Report and Order, in the Matter of
Implementation of Sections of The Cable Television Consumer Protection and
Competition Act of 1992: Rate Regulations", MM Docket 92-266, FCC 93-177
(released May 3, 1993) (the "FCC rate regulations"), notwithstanding any
different or inconsistent provisions in this Chapter of the Village Code.
      1.   The Village shall follow the FCC rate regulations in its regulation
of the basic service rates and charges of all franchisees.
      2.   In connection with such regulation, the Village shall ensure a
reasonable opportunity for hearing and consideration of the views of all
interested parties.
      3.   The Village Administrator, or his designee, is authorized to execute
on behalf of the Village and file with the FCC such certification forms or
other instruments as are now or may hereafter be required by the FCC rate
regulations in order to enable the Village to regulate basic service rates and
charges. (Ord. 94-02, 1-26-1994)
3-4-8: RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF VILLAGE:
   A.   The right is hereby reserved to the Village to adopt, following written
notice to the Company and a public hearing, in addition to the provisions
herein contained and in existing applicable ordinances, such additional
regulations as it shall find necessary in the exercise of the police power,
provided that such regulations, by ordinance or otherwise, shall be reasonable,
and not in conflict with the rights herein granted and shall not be in conflict
with the laws of the State.
   B.   The Village shall have the right, during the life of this franchise,
free of charge, where aerial construction exists, of maintaining upon the poles
of the Company within the Village limits, wire and pole fixtures necessary for
a police and fire alarm system, such wires and fixtures to be constructed and
maintained to the satisfaction of the Company and in accordance with its
specifications.
The Village, in its use and maintenance of such wires and fixtures, shall at
all times comply with the rules and regulations of the Company so that there
may be minimum danger of contact or conflict between the wires and fixtures of
the Company and the wires and fixtures used by the Village.
   C.   The Village shall be solely responsible for all damage to persons or
property arising out of the construction or maintenance of said wires and
fixtures authorized by this Section and shall save the Company harmless from
all claims and demands whatsoever, except those arising from the negligence of
the Company, arising out of the attachment, maintenance change or removal of
said wires and fixtures to the poles of the Company. In case of rearrangement
of the Company plant or removal of poles or fixtures, the Village shall save
the Company harmless from any damage to persons or property arising out of the
removal or construction of its wires and/or other fixtures.
   D.   The Village shall have the right to supervise all construction or
installation work performed subject to the provisions of this Chapter and to
make such inspection as it shall find necessary to ensure compliance with
governing ordinances. (Ord. 82-03, 3-24-1982)
3-4-9: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   (Rep. by Ord. 96-22, 11-20-1996)
   B.   Within thirty (30) days after the expiration of each calendar year
during the franchise term, the Company shall file with the Village a statement
of its gross receipts during the preceding year. Within ninety (90) days after
the expiration of each fiscal year of the Company during the franchise term, it
shall file with the Village an annual report acceptable to the Village showing
the total gross receipts during the fiscal year, the payments made to the
Village during that year and any further financial information which the
Village may reasonably require.
   C.   In the event that the Company's franchise should be terminated or
forfeited for any reason prior to the end of the term provided for herein, the
Company shall immediately submit to the Village a statement of the gross
receipts received during the time elapsed since the end of the last quarter-
year for which a franchise fee was paid to the Village by the Company. No later
than thirty (30) days following the termination of the franchise the Company
shall pay to the Village the franchise fee due and owing to the Village as
determined under subsection A of this Section.
   D.   The Village shall have the right to inspect the Company's records from
which the payments hereunder are computed and shall have the right to audit and
recompute the amount of such payments. Acceptance of payments by the Village
shall not be construed as a release, accord or satisfaction of any claim the
Village may have for further or additional sums payable hereunder or for any
other performance or obligation required of the Company.
   E.   Payments by the Company to the Village, pursuant to the foregoing
provisions shall be in addition to any and all taxes which are now or which
hereafter may be required to be paid by any Federal, State or local law.
   F.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the amount of the franchise
fee set forth in this Section shall increase to the highest rate that the
Company is paying any other municipality located in Lake County, Illinois.
Should the Company also pay a minimum fee to any other such municipality, said
minimum fee, prorated on the basis of the population of the municipalities,
shall be paid to the Municipality. For the purposes of this Section, any
affiliated person, subsidiary, partnership or wholly owned corporation related
to the Company shall qualify as a company which will trigger an increase in the
amount paid to the Municipality. Any transferee or assignee shall be bound by
all rate increases and by the provisions of this Section.
   G.   The Municipality may require as a term or condition of the Company's
initiation of operation or continuance of operation, any term or condition to
which the Company is subject to in any other municipality located in Lake
County, Illinois. The change in the amount of franchise fee shall go into
effect on the date of passage of any ordinance in the other municipality where
the Company operates. The change in a term or condition shall go into effect
fifteen (15) days after the Municipality gives notice thereof to the Company.
   H.   To facilitate the implementation of this Section, the Company shall,
within fifteen (15) days after their passage, send to the Village copies of all
ordinances granting said Company a franchise passed by any municipality within
Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 82-03, 3-24-1982)
3-4-10: REPORTS AND RECORDS:
   A.   The Village shall have access, at all reasonable hours to all of the
Company's plans, contracts and engineering, accounting, financial, statistical,
customer and service records, relating to the property and the operation of the
Company and to all other records required to be kept hereunder. The following
records and reports shall be filed with the Village Clerk and in the local
office of the Company:
      1.   Copies of such rules, regulations, terms and conditions adopted by
the Company for the conduct of its business.
      2.   Such other information as the Village shall request with respect to
properties and expenses related to the Company's service within the Village.
   B.   Within ninety (90) to one hundred twenty (120) days after the
expiration of each calendar year during the franchise term, the Company shall
submit a written report to the Village, which shall include:
      1.   A summary of the previous year's activities and development of this
system, including, but not limited to, service begun or dropped and subscriber
gain or loss.
      2.   Copies of the financial statements audited by a certified public
accounting firm, including the Company's balance sheet, income statement and
working papers relating to subscribers' accounts.
      3.   A current statement of costs of construction.
      4.   A summary of complaints, identifying the number and nature of
complaints and their disposition.
      5.   A list of officers and members of the board of the Company and the
parent corporation, if any.
      6.   A list of all stockholders holding three percent (3%) or more of the
voting stock of the Company, U.S. Cable of Lake County, if any.
   C.   The Company shall simultaneously file with the Village, a copy of all
petitions, applications, and communications filed or submitted by the Company,
with any governmental entity or agency having jurisdiction with respect to any
matter affecting the system, systems facilities or the Company's undertakings
with respect to this Chapter.
3-4-11: SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this Section, "basic cable television
service" shall mean the services specified in subsections
3-4-13A, B, D, E, and F hereof and any additional services which may be so
designated by the Company.
   B.   Schedule of Rates and Charges:
      1.   Basic Service: The following rates and charges are authorized for
basic service under the franchise and shall not be increased for a minimum
period of two (2) years from the date cable programming is received by the last
subscribers of the initial plant construction:
 
Installation Charge*                             $10.00
Monthly Service Charge (basic service)           8.00
Additional Outlets Installation Charge (each)     10.00
Monthly Service Charge (each)                    2.00
 
*Installation charges will be waived during the forty five (45) days after each
area is activated and potential subscribers have been notified that services
are available.
      2.   The charge for moving or disconnecting an outlet shall not exceed
five dollars ($5.00).
      3.   Reconnection: The charge for reconnecting a subscriber or housing
unit after disconnecting for any reason other than failure to pay the
subscriber fee shall not exceed ten dollars ($10.00), provided all wiring other
than internal wiring has remained in its prior position and with respect to a
subscriber who is being reconnected after failure to pay its subscriber's fee,
the reconnection fee would be ten dollars ($10.00), subject to the same
proviso.
      4.   Deposit for Multi-channel Connections: The Company will supply
multi-channel converters to subscribers desiring the same and obtain a twenty
dollar ($20.00) refundable deposit.
      5.   Public Building: The Company shall provide on basic cable television
outlet at no cost to all Municipally owned buildings, to include the Fire
Department, Rescue Squad, Library and to all public and parochial schools in
the Village, now or in the future. All service to such buildings shall be free
of charge. The Company shall be entitled to be reimbursed for its costs of
labor and materials for any additional drops within any schools or Municipal
buildings.
      6.   Charitable Institutions: Charitable institutions shall receive a ten
percent (10%) discount from the foregoing rates. There shall be no rent for the
multi-channel converters.
   C.   Changes in Rates and Charges: The rates and charges for basic services
specified herein may be raised or lowered by the Company following the initial
three (3) years after installation; provided that, thirty (30) days prior to
the effective date of any proposed change in rates or charges, the Company
shall give written notice to the Village of the proposed changes. Such proposed
changes in rates and charges as set forth in the said written notice to the
Village shall become effective on the date specified in said written notice
unless the Board of Trustees shall, within said thirty (30) day period, elect
to hold a hearing with respect to such proposed changes in which latter event,
such proposed changes shall not take effect until the completion of said
hearing (which completion shall take place not later than sixty (60) days after
the date the Board of Trustees shall receive the aforesaid written notice of
proposed changes in rates and charges); provided, that after holding the
aforesaid hearing, the Board of Trustees may veto all or any of such proposed
changes in rates and charges within ninety (90) days after receipt of the said
written notice from the Company. In reviewing the proposed changes in rates and
charges determining whether to exercise its power of veto contained herein, the
Village shall give due consideration to such rates as are required to offset
all necessary costs for the provision of CATV services in the Village,
including a fair rate of return to the Company on its investment. The Company
may not propose changing the rates and charges specified herein after the
initial three (3) year period, more than once each calendar year.
   D.   Abatement of Charges Upon Service Interruption: Charges shall abate pro
rata in the event that service to a subscriber is interrupted for more than
twenty four (24) hours for any reason whatsoever.
3-4-12: CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General: All facilities and equipment of the Company shall be
constructed and maintained in accordance with the requirements and
specifications of the ordinances of the Village and the laws of the State of
Illinois, and shall fully comply with technical standards which have been or
which hereafter may be adopted by the Federal Communications Commission. The
construction and maintenance of the Company's facilities shall not interfere
unreasonably with the use or maintenance of any facilities or equipment of the
Village or of any public utility company, in, under, upon, across or along the
streets, alleys, avenues and public ways, easements and rights of way. The
Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Village from any and all
liability growing out of any injury to person or property as a result of its
operation under this franchise.
   B.   Construction Schedule: The Company shall use due diligence to obtain
all necessary permits and authorizations which may be required in the conduct
of its business including, without limitation, utility joint agreements,
microwave radio licenses and authorizations from appropriate County, State or
Federal regulatory agencies. Construction shall proceed with reasonable
diligence and shall be performed in a workmanlike manner. The Company shall
begin construction of the CATV system by May 1, 1982, with final completion of
the system no later than ninety (90) days hence. The Company shall be entitled
to a reasonable extension of the schedule specified herein in the event
construction is delayed by acts of God, earthquake, lightning, flood, fire,
explosion, vandalism, strikes or other industrial disturbances, riots or other
civil disturbance, later delivery of equipment, supplies or machinery by
suppliers, late performance by suppliers of services, or other similar causes
reasonably beyond the Company's control. If the Company fails to comply with
the construction timetable as set out above, the Village reserves the right,
following a public hearing, a thirty (30) day written notice of which shall be
given to the Company, to terminate and cancel the franchise pursuant to Section
3-4-17.
   C.   Interference with Public Ways and Property:
      1.   The Company shall so set its poles and place its cables, wires and
appliances so as not to interfere with the ordinary travel and use of the
streets, alleys, avenues, or public ways, easements and rights of way;
provided, however no poles shall be set without prior permit approval which
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. All of such installations shall be
of a permanent nature, durable and of sufficient height not to interfere
unreasonably in any manner with the rights of the public, public utilities or
of individual property owners. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
Company from leasing pole rights from existing public utility companies.
      2.   All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment
erected by the Company within the Village shall be so located as to cause
minimum interference with the proper use of streets, alleys and other public
ways and places and to cause minimum interference with the rights or reasonable
convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the said streets, or other
public ways and places. Company will utilize telephone company, power company
and public easements wherever possible.
      3.   The Company shall not place poles or other fixtures where the same
will interfere with any gas, electric or telephone fixture, water hydrant or
main and all such poles or other fixtures placed in any street shall be placed
at the outer edge of the sidewalk and inside the curb line, and those placed in
alleys shall be placed close to the line of the lot abutting on said alley, and
then in such a manner as not to interfere with the usual travel on said
streets, alleys, and public ways. Wherever public utilities are underground,
the CATV system when subsequently installed in that area, shall be installed
underground. If at any time during the life of the franchise the telephone or
electric utility facilities go underground, the affected facilities of the
Company shall go underground, simultaneously.
   D.   Restoration of Street and Sidewalk Surfaces: In case of any disturbance
of pavement, sidewalk, driveway or other surfacing, the Company shall, at its
own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the Village, replace and
restore all paving, sidewalk, driveway or surface of any street or alley
disturbed, in as good condition as before said work was commenced, and shall
maintain the restored pavement, sidewalk, driveway or other surface in that
condition for one year after restoration is complete, reasonable wear and tear
excepted.
   E.   Street Grade Change: In the event that at any time during the period of
this franchise the Village shall lawfully elect to alter, or change the grade
of, any street, alley or other public way, the Company, upon reasonable notice
by the Village, shall remove, repair and relocate its poles, wires, cables
underground conduits, manholes and other fixtures at its own expense.
   F.   Moving Buildings, Responsibility of Company: The Company shall, on the
request of any person holding a building moving permit issued by the Village,
temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of buildings. The
expense of such temporary removal, raising or lowering of wires shall be paid
by the person requesting the same, and the Company shall have the authority to
require such payment in advance. The Company shall be given not less than forty
eight (48) hours' advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
   G.   Trimming Trees: The Company shall have the authority to trim trees upon
and overhanging streets, alleys, sidewalks and public places of the Village so
as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with the wires
and cables of the Company. No trimming shall proceed without notification of
the property owner and shall be at the expense of the Company. (Ord. 82-03, 3-
24-1982)
3-4-13: PROGRAMMING AND SERVICES:
   A.   The Company at all times shall provide the cable television services
required to be provided by rules or regulations which have been or which
hereafter may be adopted by the Federal Communications Commission, including,
without limitation and if applicable, programming origination by the Company,
public access, governmental, educational and leased cable channels and use of
studio facilities and equipment.
   B.   The Company shall provide the signals of all television broadcast
stations required to be carried by the rules and regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission and, subject only to the cable television systems
channel capacity, the maximum number of additional television signals it is
permitted to carry by such rules and regulations.
   C.   The Company may provide such additional audio and video services as it
wishes, including services for which a per program, per service or per channel
charge is made, as are consistent with the terms of this Chapter and Federal,
State and local law.
   D.   The Company shall minimally provide the signals of all Chicago and
Milwaukee stations where allowed, and additionally, services described in an
addendum to this document.
   E.   The cable television system provided by the Company shall include an
emergency override capacity to be made available to the Village, free of
charge, during emergency, civil or natural disaster.
   F.   The Company shall have available at least one channel for local
origination and programming exclusively for the Village and other Lake County
communities, at least one hour per weekday, consisting of evening news and
events, local events, sports and announcements. In addition thereto, the
Company shall provide access to channels for local sporting events of interest
to the community and for educational activities by College of Lake County,
Shimer College, and public and private schools, and for religious events.
   G.   The system shall provide for, or shall be capable of, receiving and
transmitting all VHF, UHF and FM signals. UHF stations carried on the system
shall be converted to VHF channels.
   H.   The system shall carry FM radio stations as follows: All signals on the
broad band.
   I.   The Company shall make available to subscribers within the Village, a
burglar and fire alarm system when subscriber demand renders the implementation
of said system financially feasible, to be determined in the manner set forth
in the provisions of Section
3-4-9A of this Chapter, in the event the Company and the Village disagree.
   J.   The cable system shall meet all performance criteria over the ambient
temperature range prevailing in the franchise area from the normal daily
minimum temperature in August.
   K.   The Company shall continue, throughout the term of the franchise, to
maintain the technical standards and quality of service set forth in the
franchise. Should the Village reasonably find, by resolution, that the Company
has failed to maintain these technical standards and quality of service and
should it, by resolution, specifically enumerate improvements to be made, the
Company shall make such improvements.
   L.   The Company agrees to accept for telecast on its system for the benefit
of the residents of the Village any programming produced for that purpose by
the Oak Grove School, Libertyville High School, Village, residents of
institutions of the Village or such other institutions within Libertyville or
by any other cable company either by video or by direct line or by
interconnect.
   M.   The Company agrees to provide coverage of local news of the Village as
well as Libertyville, within the ten (10) or more hours of Lake County local
news programming, including providing play by play coverage of Libertyville
area school sporting events. (Ord. 82-03, 3-24-1982)
   N.   The Company agrees to provide the Village by December 23, 1996, with
its own community channel (channel 19 or such other channel as U.S. Cable shall
make available from time to time) with character generator for a community
bulletin board from the Village Hall. All future expansion or enhancement of
the channel's capabilities for cablecasting of programming shall be the
responsibility of the Village.
   O.   By December 23, 1996, the Company shall provide to the Village:
      1.   A personal computer system as described in Exhibit A, on file in the
Village Clerk's office, or a comparable or better system.
      2.   A super VHS video equipment system as described on Exhibit B, on
file in the Village Clerk's office, or a comparable or better system, in
exchange for the Village's current video equipment previously furnished to it
by the Company. (Ord. 96-22, 11-20-1996)
3-4-14: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Types Of Insurance To Be Carried: The Company shall keep the system and
system facilities continuously insured against such risks as are customarily
insured against by businesses of like size and type, including, but not limited
to:
      1.   Fire And Lightning: Insurance upon the repair or replacement basis
if available, and otherwise to the full insurable value of the system
facilities (with reasonable deductible provisions) against loss or damage by
fire and lightning, with uniform standard extended coverage endorsement,
limited only as may be provided in the standard form of extended coverage
endorsement at the time in use in the State.
      2.   Boiler Explosion: Boiler explosion insurance on steam boilers,
pressure vessels and pressure piping in an amount not less than repair or
replacement cost (with reasonable deductible provisions); provided that, such
insurance need not be taken out until the steam boiler, pressure vessels and
pressure piping have been installed in the system facilities.
      3.   Bodily Injury: Insurance to the extent of two million dollars
($2,000,000.00) per occurrence against liability for bodily injury including
death and to the extent of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per
occurrence against liability for damage to property including loss of use,
occurring on, arising out of or in any way related to the system and system
facilities.
      4.   Liability During Construction: During any period of construction,
adequate coverage to meet liability under the Illinois Structural Work Act.
      5.   Workmen's Compensation, Employer's Liability: Workmen's compensation
insurance within statutory limits and employer's liability insurance of not
less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
      6.   Automobile Liability: Comprehensive automobile liability insurance
to the extent of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence against
liability for bodily injury including death and to the extent of three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per occurrence against liability for damage to
property including loss of use occurring on, arising out of, or in any way
related to the system and system facilities.
   B.   Village Officers and Employees Co-Insured: The Company shall have the
Village and all of its officers and employees included as co-insured on all
insurance certificates referred to in this Section. The Company shall file with
the Village copies of all such certificates. All such certificates shall
provide that the issuing insurance company will not cancel them without ten
(10) days' prior notice to the Company and the Village. All such certificates
shall be taken out and maintained with generally recognized responsible
insurance companies qualified to do business in the State of Illinois and
carrying a rating of A+AAAA in the most recent publication of Best's Insurance
Guide.
   C.   Insurances are Not Limited: This Section shall not be a limit on the
Company's undertaking provided in Section
3-4-6A of this Chapter.
3-4-15: BOND:
   A.   The Company shall maintain throughout the term of this franchise a bond
running to the Village, with a good and sufficient surety to be approved by the
Village in the penal sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) on the condition
that the Company shall well and truly observe, fulfill and perform in
connection with each provision, term and condition of this Chapter and that in
case of any material breach, the Village shall be entitled to recover from the
principal and sureties on such bond the amount of any damages and all costs and
attorney's fees incurred by the Village, proximately resulting from the failure
of the Company to well and faithfully observe and perform under any and all of
the provisions, terms and conditions which this Chapter requires it to perform.
   B.   No recovery by the Village of any sum by reason of the bond required by
this Section shall be any limitation upon the liability of the Company to the
Village, except that any sum received by the Village by reason of such bond
shall be deducted from any recovery which the Village might have against the
Company.
3-4-16: SALE OR TRANSFER OF SYSTEM:
The Company shall not sell or transfer any rights under this franchise to
another without prior approval of the Board of Trustees, which approval shall
not be unreasonably withheld. Provided that no sale or transfer shall be
effective until the vendee, assignee or lessee has filed in the office of the
Village Clerk an instrument duly executed, reciting the fact of such sale,
assignment, or lease, accepting the terms of the franchise and agreeing to
perform all the conditions thereof; provided, however, that the foregoing
restriction shall not prohibit the Company from mortgaging or pledging its
assets.
3-4-17: TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   If the Company fails to perform any of the material covenants herein
provided for, for a period of ninety (90) days after receiving written notice
from the Village of said breach, the Village shall have the right to terminate
the Company's franchise by written notice to the Company mailed or delivered to
its business office; provided, however, that no termination may occur without
written notice to the Company and a public hearing had. The Company shall be
entitled to a reasonable extension of the ninety (90) day period specified
herein in the event that the Company is unable to cure by reason of acts of
God, earthquake, lightning, flood, fire, explosion, vandalism, strikes or other
industrial disturbances, riots or other civil disturbances, late performance by
suppliers of service, or other similar causes reasonably beyond the Company's
control.
   B.   Upon termination for cause or expiration of the franchise, the Village
may elect to acquire the CATV system of the Company upon payment to the Company
of the fair market value of the CATV system as a going concern. Said valuation
is to be made as a valid and existing franchise. Said valuation shall be made
by a group of three (3) certified public accountants. Each party to this
agreement shall select one certified public accountant. The two (2) certified
public accountants selected by the parties shall select a third certified
public accountant. The decision of the majority shall be binding. The Company
shall transfer to the Village, possession and title to all property of the
Company and the Village shall pay the purchase price within thirty (30) days
after expiration or termination of the grant of authority.
3-4-18: DECLARATION OF FORFEITURE:
In the event the Company fails to perform in accordance with any of the
provisions of this Chapter and a forfeiture is declared, then it is understood
and agreed that the Village shall be entitled to the sum of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) as liquidated damages, which sum shall be in addition to
any other sum which shall be covered by the bond in this Chapter required to be
posted by the Company.
3-4-19: COMPANY OFFICE:
   A.   Public Use of Facilities: The Company shall maintain studios and
offices, open during normal business hours, within the corporate limits of
Waukegan, Illinois, equipped with color cameras, video tape equipment and
mobile van. This facility shall be available on a time sharing basis to the
Village, its agencies, public service organizations and schools lying wholly or
partly within the Village.
   B.   Complaints Directed to: Said office shall also receive, investigate and
respond to complaints from subscribers. The Company shall make every reasonable
effort to resolve complaints to the satisfaction of the subscriber.
3-4-20: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Discrimination:
      1.   The Company shall not, as to rates, charges, service facilities,
rules, regulations, or in any other respect, make or grant preference or
advantage to any person, nor subject any person to any prejudice or
disadvantage, provided that nothing in this franchise shall be deemed to
prohibit the establishment of a graduated scale of charge and classified rate
schedules to which any customer coming within such classification would be
entitled.
      2.   The Company shall not deny service, deny access, or otherwise
discriminate against subscribers, channel users, or general citizens on the
basis of race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, age, sex, marital
status or physical or mental handicap. The Company shall strictly adhere to the
equal employment opportunity requirements of the FCC, as expressed in section
76.12(g) and 76.311 of chapter I of title 47 of the Code of Federal
Regulations. The Company shall comply at all times with all other applicable
Federal, State and local laws, and all executive and administrative orders
relating to non-discrimination.
   B.   Monitoring: Neither the Company nor any other person, agency or entity
shall monitor or arrange for the monitoring of any cable, line, signal input
device, or subscriber outlet or receiver for any purpose whatsoever, without
the specific authorization of the corporate authorities expressed by resolution
and of affected subscribers. The foregoing notwithstanding, the Company shall
be allowed to perform monitoring which is necessary to the normal delivery of
system services; provided, however, that such monitoring shall be done in a
manner that does not infringe upon the rights of subscribers and provided
further that the Company shall disclose to the Board of Trustees all such
monitoring activities, if any.
   C.   Business of Television Repair: The Company shall not engage in the
business of selling or repairing television sets or other electronic
instruments other than those owned by the Company. This paragraph shall not be
construed to restrict the Company from connecting its distribution system to
television sets or other electronic instruments.
3-4-21: REMOVAL OF COMPANY EQUIPMENT:
Upon the revocation of this franchise by the Board of Trustees, or at the end
of the term of this franchise or any extensions thereof, the Company shall have
the right to go upon the Village property to remove its equipment.
3-4-22: FRANCHISE NON-EXCLUSIVE:
This franchise shall be non-exclusive and shall not restrict the Village in any
manner in the exercise of any franchising or other regulatory power which it
now has or which it may hereafter be granted by Federal, State or local law.
3-4-23: PENALTIES:
For violation of any of the following provisions of this Chapter, the penalties
shall be chargeable as follows:
   A.   For failure to complete construction and installation of the system and
commence providing service in accordance with Section
3-4-12B, of this Chapter unless the Board of Trustees specifically approves the
delay by resolution because of the reasons beyond the control of the Company,
the Company shall be subject to a penalty of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per
day or part thereof that the violation continues.
   B.   For failure to provide data and reports as requested by the Village
within thirty (30) days of written notice of the request, or as required in
Sections
3-4-9 and
3-4-10, the Company shall be subject to a penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00) per
day or part thereof that the violation continues.
   C.   Delinquent payments shall bear interest at the rate of one percent (1%)
per month with the minimum delinquency being one month interest charge.
   D.   For persistent failure to comply with such reasonable requests and
recommendations as may be made in writing by the Village pursuant to authority
granted by this Chapter, the Company shall be subject to a penalty of fifty
dollars ($50.00) per day or part thereof that the violation continues.
   E.   The Company shall not be liable for any fines or penalties if the
Company's failure to perform is delayed or obstructed by acts of God,
earthquake, lightning, flood, fire, explosion, vandalism or other industrial
disturbance, riots or other civil disturbances, late delivery of equipment,
supplies or machinery by suppliers, late performance by suppliers of service,
or other similar causes reasonably beyond the Company's control.
3-4-24: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or portion of this franchise shall
be held unconstitutional, invalid under State or Federal law or inconsistent
with the regulations of the Federal Communications Commission, all other
provisions shall retain their full force and effect. (Ord. 82-03, 3-24-82)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE WATER AND SEWAGE SYSTEM
SECTION:
3-5-1: Designation Of Systems
3-5-2: Connections And Tap-Ins Governed By Building Code
3-5-3: Village Not Liable For Interruption Of Service
3-5-4: Rates And Collections
3-5-5: Water System And Sewer System Use Regulations
3-5-6: Penalties
3-5-7: Outside Water Use Regulations
3-5-8: Assessment Of Proportionate Share Of Special Service Area Costs
3-5-9: Public Water And Sanitary Sewer Main Extensions
3-5-1: DESIGNATION OF SYSTEMS:
   A.   Water And Sewage System:
      1.   The water system of the Village shall be divided into three (3)
districts as follows:
         a.   District 1; the Ashford Trails Water District: This system shall
be limited to the Ashford Trails Subdivision. It shall be operated and
maintained by Lake County under agreement with the Village.
         b.   District 2; the Southeastern Water District: This system shall be
limited to the area in the Village lying westerly of the Illinois Toll Highway
and southerly of the Metra Rail right-of-way and shall be owned, operated and
maintained by Lake County.
         c.   District 3; the North-Central Water District: This system shall
be operated and maintained by the Village and shall comprise the remainder of
the Village area.
      2.   The sewage system of the Village shall be divided into three (3)
districts as follows:
         a.   District 4; the Ashford Trails Sewage District: This system shall
be limited to the Ashford Trails Subdivision. It shall be operated and
maintained by Lake County under agreement with the Village.
         b.   District 5; the Eastern Sewage District: This system shall be
located easterly of the Illinois Toll Highway and shall be operated and
maintained by the Village with treatment service by the North Shore Sanitary
District.
         c.   District 6; the Western Sewage District: This system shall be
located westerly of the Illinois Toll Highway and shall be operated and
maintained by the Village with treatment service by Lake County and the Village
of Libertyville.
The foregoing six (6) districts along with all real and personal property which
comprise such existing systems and all additions thereto, are hereby designated
the "water and sewage system" of the Village.
   B.   County Intergovernmental Agreements: The various intergovernmental
agreements heretofore made between Lake County and the Village relating to the
various water and sewage system districts, as amended from time to time, shall
be incorporated into this chapter by reference, and all of the regulatory and
operating agreements therein shall be enforced as a part of this chapter.
   C.   Lake County Sewer Use Ordinance: The provisions of the Lake County
sewer use ordinances as amended from time to time, shall be incorporated by
reference into and made a part of this chapter, and the use of Districts 4 and
6 sewage systems shall be regulated thereby. The provisions of the North Shore
Sanitary District regulations concerning the use of the sewage system shall be
incorporated by reference into and made a part of this chapter, and the use of
District 5 sewage system shall be regulated thereby. (Ord. 94-O-14, 9-28-1994)
3-5-2: CONNECTIONS AND TAP-INS GOVERNED BY BUILDING CODE:
   A.   General Provisions: All connections or tap-ins to the water and sewage
systems of the Village shall be governed by the provisions of the Building
Code, including, but not limited to, applications for service or connection or
tap-in permits, issuance of permits, payment of fees, regulation of materials
used, and inspection of connections.
   B.   Construction Of Individual Sewage Disposal: No septic tank or other
individual sewage disposal system shall be constructed or installed in the
Village except:
      1.   SR-5 Zone: On land zoned SR-5 when any permitted use is located on a
minimum of five (5) acres of land and when installation is approved by the Lake
County Board of Health, unless the Village Building Commissioner finds that
public sewage mains are reasonably accessible.
      2.   Availability And Accessibility: In any other zoning district when
installation is approved by the Lake County Board of Health and public sewer
mains are not accessible within a reasonable distance or sewage connection
permission is not available due to lack of capacity within the sewer mains and/
or due to limiting sewer service area boundaries to be allocated by the Village
Board within a reasonable period of time. As used herein "reasonable distance"
shall be three hundred feet (300'), or less, from the nearest property boundary
of a lot, tract or parcel upon which a single family dwelling exists or upon
which a single family dwelling is to be constructed, and one thousand feet
(1,000') from the nearest property boundary of an existing or proposed non-
residential building, multi-family dwelling, or a proposed subdivision property
boundary and for which permission to connect is required and granted by the
controlling governmental authority or authorities. The Building Commissioner
shall determine, before issuing a building permit, whether or not connection to
the sewage system is required under this section. Any appeals from the
requirement or determination of the Building Commissioner shall be heard by the
Zoning Board of Appeals under title 1, chapter 10, article B of this Code or,
if so directed by the Mayor, the Plan Commission.
      3.   Septic Systems: These provisions limiting installation of septic
systems shall apply to new installations, replacement, or substantial repair of
existing systems.
   C.   Construction Of Individual Well: No private well or other individual
water supply shall be installed in the Village except when the Village water
mains or other Illinois Environmental Protection Agency approved and regulated
public water system mains are not accessible within a reasonable distance or
water connection permission is not available due to lack of capacity within the
water mains and/or limiting service area boundaries to be allocated by the
Village Board within a reasonable period of time. As used herein "reasonable
distance" shall be two hundred fifty feet (250'), or less, from the nearest
property boundary of a lot, tract or parcel upon which a single family dwelling
exists or upon which a single family dwelling is to be constructed, and one
thousand feet (1,000') from the nearest property boundary of an existing or
proposed non-residential building, multi-family dwelling, or a proposed
subdivision property boundary and for which permission to connect is required
and granted by the controlling governmental authority or authorities. The
Building Commissioner shall determine, before issuing a building permit,
whether or not connection to the water system shall be required. Any appeals
from the requirement or determination of the Building Commissioner shall be
heard by the Zoning Board of Appeals under title 1, chapter 10, article B of
this Code or, if so directed by the Mayor, the Plan Commission. These
provisions limiting installation of private water systems shall apply to both
new installations and replacement of existing systems.
   D.   Connection To Water And Sewage System: No connections shall be made to
the water system or the sewage system without a construction permit issued by
the Building Commissioner. When required by the regulations of the Village,
flow meters for either water or sewage connections shall be installed at the
expense of the permittee.
      1.   Sewer connections in Districts 4 and 6 shall only be made when
allocated by the Village Board and after payment of all connection fees and
permit fees set forth in the Building Code.
      2.   Sewer connections in District 5 shall only be made when approved by
the North Shore Sanitary District and after payment of all connection fees and
permit fees set forth in the Building Code.
      3.   Water connections in District 1 shall only be made when approved by
Lake County and after payment of all connection and permit fees set forth in
the Building Code.
      4.   Water connections in District 2 shall only be made when approved by
Lake County and after payment of all connection and permits fees required by
Lake County.
      5.   Water connections in District 3 shall only be made when approved by
the Village and after payment of all connection and permit fees set forth in
the Building Code.
   E.   Prohibited Connections:
      1.   No person shall connect to a sanitary sewer, any sewer or drain
which is connected directly or indirectly to any sources of stormwater, ground
water, or wastewater, including, but not limited to, roof drains or downspouts;
areaway drains; swimming pool filter backwash water, pool drains or other pool
water sources; or any other source of surface water runoff or ground water.
      2.   No person shall connect any private well or other water source to
any water system which is connected to the Village water system.
      3.   No private sewer or water connection may cross any land owned by
another party.
      4.   No person or entity shall connect to an available sanitary sewer or
water main which is not located adjacent and contiguous to the lot, tract or
parcel to be served (see also section
3-5-9 of this chapter).
   F.   Separate Connection For Each Building: Except as otherwise authorized
in this Code, a separate and independent building sewer, directly connected to
the public sanitary sewer, shall be provided for every building; except where
one (1) building stands at the rear of another on the same interior lot and no
private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through
an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
(1) building sewer. Other than as authorized in this section, building sewers
that do not directly connect to the public sanitary sewer are prohibited.
   G.   Who Must Connect To Public Sewer: The owner of all houses, buildings or
properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes
situated within the Village and abutting on any public or private street, alley
or right-of- way in which there is now located or may in the future be located
any public sanitary sewer of the Village, is required at owner's expense to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sanitary sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this title, within ninety (90) days after date of official notice
to do so; provided, that said public sewer is available, as defined herein.
(Ord. 2017-O-11, 6-28-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-O-10, 5-24-2023)
3-5-3: VILLAGE NOT LIABLE FOR INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE:
   A.   Liability: All water and sewage service supplied by the water and
sewage system of the Village shall be provided on the express condition that
the Village shall not be liable nor shall any claim be made against it for
damages caused by reason of breakage, failure, or blockage of any main, trunk,
branches, service pipes, lift pump, valve, booster pump, or other part or
apparatus connected with the system; or for any damages due to the condition of
any water supplied to any user, or to the handling of any sewage in the system;
or for any interruption or inadequacy of service for any reason whatsoever,
including, but not limited to, any work, stoppage, alterations or repairs
conducted upon the system.
   B.   Interference With Or Damage To System Prohibited: It shall be unlawful
for any person to, in any manner interfere with, obstruct, or damage in any
manner whatsoever, the operation and equipment of the water and sewage system
of the Village or to cause or permit such interference, obstruction or damage.
No person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenances or equipment which
is a part of the water and sewage system. Any person violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct, or
shall be subject to the penalties hereinafter provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 94-14, 9-28-1994)
3-5-4: RATES AND COLLECTIONS:
   A.   Rates Established: There are hereby established rates and charges for
the use of the water and sewage system of the Village in the various districts
hereinabove established. Because the districts involve differing costs payable
to providers of services to the Village such as water supply and sewage
treatment, the charges made for services in each district vary accordingly. The
charges include: 1) permit and tap-in fees for the privilege of connecting to
the water and sewer system; 2) charges for the use of the system on the basis
of the volume of use, either as assumed on the basis of the use involved, or as
metered; or 3) final reading charges.
      1.   Water And Sewage Tap-In Charge: There is hereby established a tap-in
fee for making a connection to either the water system or the sewage system of
the Village which shall be in an amount as established in each district by
resolution of the Village Board. The Village may direct that the tap-in charge
is paid directly to the service provider in the district.
      2.   Water And Sewage Service Charge: In addition to the tap-in fee
herein required, there is hereby established a service charge for the use of
the water system and the sewage system of the Village which shall be in an
amount as established by resolution of the Village Board. The Village may
direct that the service charge is paid directly to the service provider in the
district.
      3.   Final Reading Charge: In addition to the other charges herein
required, there is hereby established a charge for the final reading of the
water meter upon termination of service, whether by sale of the serviced real
estate or otherwise. Any person requesting a final meter reading shall be
required to pay to the Village, at the time of application for such final
reading, such amount as established by the Village Board. The amount shall be
sufficient to reimburse the Village for the cost incurred by the Village for
the meter reading service. (Ord. 2000-O-03, 3-22-2000)
   B.   Collections: Tap-in charges shall be collected at the time of issuance
of the building permit for connection to the system. Service charges shall be
collected periodically, including penalties for late payment, at such times and
on such basis as the Village Board shall establish by resolution from time to
time. Final reading charges shall be paid in advance at the time of application
for said service. All bills for service shall be deemed delinquent and subject
to late payment penalties if not paid within fifteen (15) days after the bill
therefor is rendered.
      1.   At any time after an account becomes delinquent under this chapter
the Village may take any or all lawful action necessary to collect the rates,
fees, charges and penalties due under this chapter including, but not limited
to, placing the delinquent account for collection with a debt collection
company. The placing of a delinquent account for collection is in addition to,
and not exclusive of, any other remedy or procedure available to the Village as
provided by law and this title.
      2.   In addition to the rates, fees, charges and penalties as provided
under this chapter, should the Village place a delinquent account for
collection with a debt collection company, then an additional penalty in the
amount of thirty five percent (35%) of the delinquent amount shall be added to
the delinquent amount due the Village. This penalty shall, upon being placed
for collection, be added to the amount due the Village for the respective sewer
and/or water user charges plus all other applicable fees, charges and
penalties. (Ord. 2013-O-13, 10-23-2013)
   C.   Billing And Collection: It is hereby made the duty of the Village
Administrator to render bills for the service charges at such times as the
Village Board may designate by resolution. The Village Administrator shall
collect and forward to the Village Treasurer all monies due thereon. The
Village Administrator shall report to the Village Board within thirty (30) days
after payments are due, a list of all delinquent water and sewage service
charges. The Village Treasurer shall receive all such monies or revenues
incident to the operation of the water and sewage system, or any part thereof,
as the same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in a separate fund
designated the "Water and Sewage Fund of the Village of Green Oaks", and said
Treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided by
the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Lien Upon Real Estate: In the event service charges are not paid within
ninety (90) days after rendition of a bill for such service, such charges shall
be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent, and thereafter, such
delinquencies shall constitute liens upon the real estate for which the service
is supplied. The Administrator of the Village is hereby authorized and directed
to file a notice of such lien in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Lake
County, Illinois, which notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting forth
the name(s) of the owner(s) of the real estate, a description of the real
estate for which service was supplied, the amounts of monies due, and the date
or dates when such amount(s) became delinquent. The filing of such statements
as aforesaid shall be deemed notice of lien for the payment of such charges. In
all cases where a lien has been recorded, a release fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00) plus all costs of recording shall be charged in addition to the
delinquent sewer charges with late penalties. The failure to record such a
notice of lien shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien for delinquent
charges, or the right to pursue any other legal remedy.
   E.   Foreclosure Of Lien: If the service charges are not paid within one
hundred eighty (180) days after rendition of bill, the lien hereinabove
provided for may be foreclosed by appropriate legal action in the circuit court
of Lake County.
   F.   Liability For Payment: The service charges established in this section
shall be payable by the owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the
user of the system, and they shall be jointly and severally liable for payment
thereof. The service is supplied to such premises only upon the condition that
the owner of the premises, the occupant and the user of the service are jointly
and severally liable for payment therefor to the village. (Ord. 94-O-14, 9-28-
1994)
   G.   Recapture Administrative Fee:
      1.   Where any lot, tract or parcel of real estate is subject to the
provisions of a recapture agreement requiring payment of a recapture fee as a
condition to receiving a permit to connect a service line to a village sewer
and/or water main line, then, in such circumstances, the general permit and
tap-in fee established by the village from time to time, shall be increased by
fifteen percent (15%) of the recapture fee applicable to the particular lot,
tract or parcel of real estate for which the respective service connection is
being sought (the "adjusted connection fee"). By way of example, and not
limitation, the adjusted connection fee is computed thusly:
Assumptions:
 
Water connection fee $3,500.00
Recapture fee        5,000.00 (water only)
 
Computation to determine adjustment to permit and tap-in fee:
15% x $5,000.00 = $750.00 (adjustment to permit and tap-in fee)
      2.   The adjustment to permit and tap-in fee as determined by the formula
established in subsection G1 of this section shall be added to the relevant
permit and tap-in fee to determine the total amount due from the applicant for
sewer and/or water service in order to receive a permit for the connection(s).
By way of example, and not limitation, the total amount due using the
assumptions and formula from subsection G1 of this section is computed thusly:
Computation:
 
Adjustment to permit and tap-in fee $ 750.00, plus
Tap-in fee                          3,500.00, plus
Recapture fee                       5,000.00
Total due upon application          $9,250.00
 
(Ord. 2005-O-09, 9-28-2005)
   H.   Disconnection Of Water Supply For Delinquent Payment Of Water Supply
Service Charges:
      1.   Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore provided, the remedy by
enforcement of the lien for the unpaid portion of water bills and charges shall
not be exclusive of any other legal remedy to collect the amount due and unpaid
for water consumed or furnished to the person liable therefor. The water supply
of the premises for which: a) the water service charges remain unpaid; b) the
water user or owner of the premises has refused to allow inspection of the
water meter on the premises by any village officer, employee or agent; or c)
the water user or owner has refused to replace a water meter that the village
has determined is not measuring or reading water usage accurately may be cut
off by the village and such service discontinued conditioned on the following
terms and conditions:
         a.   Hearing Afforded User: Any user who has failed to pay the bill or
deposit for water service within thirty (30) days after the due date thereof,
or refuses to allow an inspection of the water meter, or refuses to replace a
water meter that the village has determined is not measuring or reading water
usage accurately, is declared to be delinquent. Thereupon, the hearing officer,
as hereinafter provided for, shall cause a written notice of delinquency to be
served upon the delinquent user setting forth the time and place of the
hearing, which shall be not less than seven (7) days after the serving of such
notice.
         b.   Hearing: At the time and place of said hearing, the hearing
officer shall give the delinquent user an opportunity to be heard and to
present any and all evidence including testimony on said user's behalf. The
records of payment for said water service by the user, as provided and given to
the hearing officer by the offices of the collector and the village clerk,
shall be prima facie evidence that said bill is due and delinquent. All
witnesses, including the delinquent user, shall be sworn prior to giving any
testimony. A record of the hearing shall be kept electronically or by
stenographic notes.
         c.   Notice Of Findings Of Hearing Officer: The hearing officer,
within five (5) business days after such hearing, if he determines after such
hearing that the user is, in fact, delinquent in payment of said bill for water
services, or refuses to allow an inspection of the water meter, or refuses to
replace a water meter that the village has determined is not measuring or
reading water usage accurately, and that the water service of said user should
be discontinued, shut off and terminated, shall state the basis or reasons for
such termination in a written order of termination, and shall serve a copy of
such order upon the user within five (5) days after said hearing. The order
shall also state the date when the water service shall be shut off and
terminated, said date to be no later than ten (10) days after the hearing date.
         d.   Payment Of Bill For Water Service, Allowing Inspection Of Water
Meters, Or Replacement Of Malfunctioning Water Meter; Reinstatement Of Service:
At any time before or after the hearing is held; at any time before or after
notice of termination is served on the user; and at any time after termination,
the delinquent user shall have the right to have said water service reinstated
upon payment of the delinquent bill in full, allowing an inspection of the
water meter, or replacing a water meter that the village has determined is not
measuring or reading water usage accurately, as the case may be, plus payment
for any necessary costs assessed for the conduct of the hearing and for labor
and materials necessarily required to terminate and reinstate the water service
of said user.
         e.   Hearing Officer: The hearing officer shall be any employee or
officer of the village and shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the majority of the members of the village board. The hearing
officer shall serve until his successor has been appointed and is qualified. In
the event there is a vacancy in the office of the hearing officer, or in the
event the hearing officer is unwilling or unable to hold hearing under this
title, then the health and sanitation official shall be the hearing officer and
shall have the duties and responsibilities of the hearing officer.
         f.   Notice: Any notices required to be given under this section shall
be proper if addressed to the user at the address stated on the application,
postage prepaid and deposited in the U.S. mail. The collector or clerk shall
certify to the hearing officer the proper mailing of the required notice and
such certification shall be prima facie evidence of the serving of such notice
as of the date of deposit in the U.S. mail. (Ord. 2010-O-6, 4-7-2010)
3-5-5: WATER SYSTEM AND SEWER SYSTEM USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   The water and sewer systems within the village shall be subject to the
following use regulations:
      1.   Tampering: No person shall tamper with, disturb, disrupt, injure or
interfere with the operation of any part of the public water or sewer systems
of the village.
      2.   Unauthorized Use: No person shall use or connect to a water or sewer
system in the village unless a valid permit for such use or connection has been
issued by the village.
      3.   Fire Hydrants: No person shall open a fire hydrant, or attempt to
obtain water therefrom, except in case of immediate emergency, or under the
direction of a village or fire department official or employee. The fine for
violation of this regulation shall be not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) plus twice the estimated value of the water permitted to be released
from the hydrant.
      4.   Manholes: No person shall move, disturb or open the cover of a
manhole in a right of way or easement in the village, or place any material in
such a manhole, except in the case of immediate emergency, or under the
direction of a village or fire department official or employee. The fine for
violation of placing material in a manhole shall be not less than two hundred
dollars ($200.00) plus twice the estimated cost of removing such material.
(Ord. 95-O-32, 9-27-1995)
      5.   Water Meters: No person shall tamper with, move, disconnect,
disturb, open, injure, adjust, or otherwise interfere with the operation of any
water meter connected to the public water system of the village for any reason,
except in the case of immediate emergency, or under the direction of a village
or fire department official or employee. The fine for violation of this
subsection shall be not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus twice the
cost of correcting the violation and plus twice the estimated loss of revenues
to the village. (Ord. 96-O-01, 1-24-1996)
   B.   The cross connection regulations promulgated by the village pursuant to
the provisions of section
7-2-10 of this code shall be enforced as a part of these regulations. (Ord. 95-
O-32, 9-27-1995)
3-5-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations Of Provisions: Any person found to be in violation of any
provision of this chapter deemed not to be an immediate risk of damage or harm
to the system shall be served by the village with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time for correction thereof;
and the violator shall, within the time stated, permanently correct and cease
the violation. (Ord. 94-O-14, 9-28-1994)
   B.   Continued Or Harmful Violations: Any person who shall continue any
violation beyond the time provided in a notice served as provided in subsection
A of this section, or who is committing a violation deemed to be a risk of
damage or harm to the system, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 94-O-14, 9-
28-1994; amd. Ord. 2001-O-05, 3-28-2001)
   C.   Recapturing Village Expense: Any person violating any of the provisions
of this chapter shall become liable to the village for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned the village by reason of such violation. (Ord. 94-O-14, 9-28-
1994)
3-5-7: OUTSIDE WATER USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Restrictions On Outside Water Use:
      1.   From May 15 and through September 15 of each calendar year:
         a.   No person shall use water from a municipal water system for lawn
sprinkling or use such water through a hose or pipe to water any lawn, garden,
tree or shrub, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and six o'clock
(6:00) P.M., when evaporation is at its highest and then only on a day in which
sprinkling is permitted by postal address number.
         b.   The sprinkling and watering of lawns and other vegetation as
directed in subsection A1a of this section shall be permitted for properties
with odd numbered postal addresses on odd numbered calendar days and at
properties with even numbered postal addresses on even numbered days.
         c.   New lawns (less than 3 months old) may be exempted from this
provision by making application to the village under subsection B of this
section and receiving authorization for this limited exemption.
         d.   New or replacement sprinkler systems shall be equipped with a
USEPA specified WaterSense labeled irrigation controller and shall be in
compliance with section 2.5(g) of the Illinois plumbing license law 1 .
   B.   New Lawns And Sod Permit Requirements: Except under the conditions set
forth in subsection A1b of this section, watering and sprinkling of lawns on an
unregulated basis for a period not exceeding three (3) weeks shall be granted
for new sod or seeded lawn installations, providing the following conditions
are met:
      1.   That an unregulated watering permit be obtained by the party or firm
wishing to water or sprinkle a new sod or seeded lawn installation on an
unregulated basis;
      2.   That the applicant for such a permit shall state in his/her
application the date of installation of the sod or seed, and the period to be
covered by such permit not to exceed three (3) weeks in duration;
      3.   That a permit fee of five dollars ($5.00) be paid to the
municipality by the applicant at the time of permit issuance to cover costs of
permit administration. (Ord. 2015-O-17, 10-28-2015)
   C.   Water Restrictions In Emergency: In the event it is determined by the
mayor that, to the best of the information available to him, there exists water
shortage or imminent risk of water shortage, then the following emergency water
use restrictions shall be in effect:
      1.   No person shall use any water from the municipal water supply for
outside use including, but not limited to, those uses described in subsection A
of this section for washing of automobiles, except at places of business where
autos are washed with automatic or manual equipment and the water so used is
recycled at the said place of business, or filling or adding to a swimming
pool.
   D.   Notice Of Restrictions In Emergency: When a water shortage or imminent
risk of water shortage has been declared or determined, as the case may be, the
mayor shall notify the water users in the municipality of such determination by
any one or more of the following means: 1) the prominent posting of such
determination at the main office of the municipality and at least one other
prominent location within the municipality; 2) publication of such
determination in a newspaper of general circulation within the municipality; 3)
mailing of notice of such determination to the users of the municipal water
system. (Ord. 99-O-05, 2-24-1999)
   E.   Violation; Penalty: Any person found to be in violation of this section
shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense, and not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the
second or any subsequent offenses. (Ord. 2015-O-17, 10-28-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 320.
3-5-8: ASSESSMENT OF PROPORTIONATE SHARE OF SPECIAL SERVICE AREA COSTS:
   A.   Definition Of Terms: As used in this section:
    ACTUAL DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION COSTS: The actual out of pocket cost of
designing and constructing an extension of public water and/or sewer facilities
from the existing public water and/or sewer system to the lot owned by the
nonincluded owner. The term "actual design and construction costs" specifically
shall exclude any and all costs of extending service from the public water and/
or sewer main to any structure or other private use.
   LOT OR LOTS: Real property owned and improved as one parcel.
   NONINCLUDED PROPERTY OWNER: The person or entity, who owns a lot or owns
lots not located within a special service area, seeking to connect to water
and/or sewer facilities within that special service area.
   PROPORTIONATE SHARE OF THE TOTAL COST: That portion of the total assessment
upon all of the real property located within a special service area, which
shall be paid by the nonincluded property owner before a connection to water
and/or sewer facilities within a special service area is permitted. The
calculation of the proportionate share of the total cost is provided in
subsection C of this section.
   B.   Responsibility To Pay For Proportionate Share Of Total Cost: In
addition to any fees, charges, costs and/or bonds required by this code or
other village ordinance, resolution, or any other action of the village board,
a nonincluded property owner shall pay a proportionate share of the total cost
as provided herein before any permits are issued allowing the connection of a
nonincluded property owner's lot or lots to water and/or sewer facilities
within the special service area. Any nonincluded property owner, who pays the
proportionate share of total cost and receives a permit to connect a lot to
sewer and/or water facilities within a special service area, and thereafter,
divides, conveys, or transfers a portion of that lot, such that the lot is no
longer being owned and improved as one lot, shall pay the proportionate share
of the total cost as provided herein for each additional lot created from the
division, conveyance or transfer before any such additional lot is permitted to
connect to sewer and/or water facilities.
   C.   Calculating Proportionate Share Of The Total Cost: The proportionate
share of the total cost for a nonincluded property owner shall be calculated as
follows: The total cost of the special service area, as assessed against all
lots currently within the special service area, shall be divided by a number
equal to the original number of lots within the special service area plus the
number of lots owned by the nonincluded property owner to determine the
proportionate share of the total cost.
   D.   Credit For Actual Design And Construction Costs: Any nonincluded
property owner shall be provided a credit, to be applied toward the
proportionate share of the total cost, for actual design and construction
costs. The credit provided herein shall not exceed the amount of the
proportionate share of the total cost. No nonincluded property owner shall
receive the credit provided herein unless a list of the design and construction
costs, properly itemized and certified by the property owner's project
engineer, is filed with the village engineer, who shall verify the listed
costs. No credit shall be provided until such time as the actual design and
construction costs are verified by the village engineer. (Ord. 2005-O-02, 1-26-
2005)
3-5-9: PUBLIC WATER AND SANITARY SEWER MAIN EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Sewer: Where connection to a public sanitary sewer system is desired or
is required, the owner of the premises in question shall, at such owner's sole
cost and expense, extend, or provide for the extension of, such sewer to, and
across the entire length or width of, the premises in question and shall, if no
existing public easement for the main to receive the connection is available
adjacent to or across the premises in question, lawfully dedicate, free of any
superior lien interests, such an easement across the entire length or width of
such premises, all in accordance with Village standards and specifications for
the extension, installation, operation and maintenance of the subject component
(s) of the Village sewerage system.
   B.   Water: Where connection to a public water system is desired or
required, the owner of the premises in question shall, at such owner's sole
cost and expense, extend, or provide for the extension of, such water system
to, and across the entire length or width of, the premises in question and
shall, if no existing public easement for the main to receive the connection is
available adjacent to or across the premises in question, lawfully dedicate,
free of any superior lien interests, such an easement across the entire length
or width of such premises, all in accordance with the applicable jurisdictional
standards and specifications for the extension, installation, operation and
maintenance of the public water system.
   C.   Exceptions To Extending Mains Along The Length Or Width Of Premises:
Extension of the public sanitary sewer system or public water system across the
entire length or width of the premises in question will not be required under
the circumstances listed below. Instead, the extension shall be of sufficient
length to service the principal structure on the subject premises:
      1.   When the premises for which the connection is to be made would
extend public sewer and/or public water to the far lot line and the adjoining
property(ies) are currently connected or currently have lawfully available main
lines to connect to public sewer and/or public water.
      2.   When the premises in question are located at the end limits of the
Village service area and, if a corner lot or parcel, no such extension is
necessary to serve adjacent lots or parcels pursuant to the reasonable water or
sewer service area plans of the Village. (Ord. 2017-O-11, 6-28-2017)
CHAPTER 6
REFUSE, RECYCLABLES, AND LANDSCAPE WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSITION
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Village Contractors
3-6-3: Franchise; Charges; Arbitration
3-6-4: Licenses; Applications
3-6-5: Licenses; Number, Term, Fee
3-6-6: Penalty
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms, phrases and words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given in this section, unless the context
or use clearly indicates another or different meaning is intended:
CONTRACTOR: Any person, firm or corporation being in the business of collecting
and disposing of garbage or refuse, or recyclable materials. Any contractor
wishing to conduct business within the village of Green Oaks for residential
collection and disposal shall obtain a license for such business, issued
pursuant to the franchising authority established by this chapter.
GARBAGE OR REFUSE: As used herein shall include the following:
   A.   All kitchen wastes, including cans, bottles, household food,
accumulations of animal food and vegetable matter attendant on the preparation,
use, cooking and service of foods.
   B.   General household trash and refuse, including ashes, empty cartons,
crates, boxes, wrapping materials, newspapers and magazines, when securely and
neatly bound in convenient size bundles, cloth materials, empty cans, discarded
toys, discarded clothing and similar materials.
   C.   Discarded furniture, including beds, springs, mattresses, overstuffed
furniture and other furniture, appliances, carpeting (securely bound in rolls
not exceeding 4 feet in length), bicycles, sleds, swing sets, tools and other
household items.
   D.   Yard materials, including bagged leaves, grass clippings, weeds,
Christmas trees, bushes, brush clippings and branch clippings, when securely
bound in bundles not exceeding four feet (4') in length.
   E.   Small amounts of earth, sod, rocks and building materials resulting
from do-it-yourself projects, if placed in acceptable containers hereinafter
defined.
   F.   Any garbage or refuse not falling within the above definitions or
categories shall be unacceptable and the contractor shall not be required to
collect such garbage or refuse.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Include, but are not limited to, newspapers, cans
(including aluminum, metal, bimetal and tin), glass and other refuse, which
from time to time may be designated by the village as recyclable materials
based on market conditions and available recycling technology, that may be
disposed of through the village's recycling program. (Ord. 2000-O-11, 9-6-2000)
3-6-2: VILLAGE CONTRACTORS:
All garbage and refuse, and all "recyclable materials", as defined in this
chapter, collected from residential dwelling units within the village, whether
single-family, duplex or multiple units, not to exceed four (4) units, shall be
collected and removed only by a contractor having a franchise with the village.
Periodic scheduled pickup of garbage or recyclable materials from residential
units within the village by any contractors not having a franchise with the
village is prohibited. All written contracts in existence on the passage date
of this chapter, by established homeowners' associations for residential
garbage, refuse or recyclable collection and disposal for an entire
subdivision, are exempt from the prohibition set forth above; provided that a
copy of such a contract, certified as accurate by the contractor and the
customer, must be filed in the office of the village clerk within sixty (60)
days hereafter, and provided further that no such contract shall be extended or
renewed, whether automatically or otherwise, after expiration of the term
pending as of the passage date of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-O-11, 9-6-2000)
3-6-3: FRANCHISE; CHARGES; ARBITRATION:
The village will grant one exclusive franchise and license to a contractor to
be the sole franchisee for collection and disposal of garbage, refuse and/or
recyclable materials for any and all residential units, including multiple
dwelling units, in the village during the term of the franchise agreement.
Owners of dwelling units desiring other or additional collection and removal
service will be permitted to do so and may do so by separate agreement with the
franchisee. To the extent that standardization of such charges is possible,
particularly in the case of periodically scheduled collection, such service
charges will be uniform and standard and shall be set forth in the contract
between the village and the contractor. The agreement shall provide that in the
event any controversy over pricing, upon request of the user and/or the
contractor, the village will act as sole arbitrator and the franchisee will
agree to be bound by the decision of the village. (Ord. 2000-O-11, 9-6-2000)
3-6-4: LICENSES; APPLICATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the collection or disposal of
garbage, refuse or recyclable materials from residential dwellings within the
village, without first having obtained a license therefor from the village and
entering into a contract therefor with the village. Applications for
residential garbage, refuse and recyclable collection licenses shall be made in
writing to the village administrator. Each application shall contain such
information as may be prescribed by the village administrator, including, but
not limited to, the name and address of the applicant, and, if the applicant is
other than a natural person, the names and addresses of all partners,
directors, officers, registered agents and/or other persons having any
ownership interest, beneficial or otherwise in the applicant. (Ord. 2000-O-11,
9-6-2000)
3-6-5: LICENSES; NUMBER, TERM, FEE:
Not more than one residential garbage, refuse or recyclable collection and
disposal license shall be issued and in force at any one time. All such
licenses shall be annual licenses, the terms of which shall commence on May 1
of each year, or the date of issuance if later than May 1, and shall terminate
on April 30 of the following year. The fee for a residential garbage, refuse or
recyclable collection and disposal license shall be two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) per year. (Ord. 2000-O-11, 9-6-2000)
3-6-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or entity violating the terms and conditions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
with each and every day that the violation is allowed to exist. Each day that a
violation exists constitutes a distinct and separate offense under the terms of
this chapter. In addition, the corporate authority may take whatever action it
deems appropriate to enforce the terms of this chapter, including an action for
injunction. All attorney fees and costs incurred by the municipality in
enforcing the terms of this chapter shall be paid by the violator. (Ord. 2000-
O-11, 9-6-2000)
CHAPTER 7
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
3-7-3: Applicable Principles
3-7-4: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
3-7-5: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
3-7-6: Late Fees/Payments
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter the following terms shall have the following meanings:
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in- kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village.
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges.
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds, check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
      7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
      8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this
definition.
      9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
      10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
   B.   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
      1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
      2.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
      3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
      4.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
      5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
      6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
      7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to a village for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet. (Ord. 2007-O-16, 11-28-2007)
3-7-2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   Fee Imposed: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be five
percent (5%) of the holder's gross revenues.
   C.   Notice To The Village: The holder shall notify the village at least ten
(10) days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service
or video service in the village.
   D.   Holder's Liability: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt
of the ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting
this chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on
the holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/21-401(b)(6) to the village.
   E.   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
   F.   Exemption: The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the village in which a fee is paid. Provided, however, if the village
terminates the said agreement(s) or said agreements expire or are not renewed,
then the provisions of this chapter shall apply upon the termination or
expiration of the agreement(s).
   G.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may
deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under
subsection B of this section. (Ord. 2007-O-16, 11-28-2007)
3-7-3: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 2007-O-16, 11-28-2007)
3-7-4: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax that
is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of any duly adopted
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 2007-O-16,
11-28-2007)
3-7-5: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   A.   Audit Requirement: The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be
construed as an accord that the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the municipality's submission of an invoice
for the sum. (Ord. 2007-O-16, 11-28-2007)
3-7-6: LATE FEES/PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this municipality pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill
of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord. 2007-O-16, 11-
28-2007)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIREARMS, WEAPONS AND HUNTING
SECTION:
4-1-1: Firearms And Weapons Regulated
4-1-1-1: Purpose
4-1-1-2: Discharge Of Firearms
4-1-1-3: Bow And Arrow, Slingshot, Etc.
4-1-1-4: Hunting
4-1-1-5: Shooting Ranges
4-1-1-6: Penalty
4-1-2: Trespassing, Poaching
4-1-1: FIREARMS AND WEAPONS REGULATED:
4-1-1-1: PURPOSE:
This Section
4-1-1 is intended to regulate the use of firearms and other weapons in the
Village. (Ord. 93-33, 12-22-1993)
4-1-1-2: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
   A.   No person shall discharge any smoothbore firearm, rifle or handgun
within the Village limits, except as provided in Section
4-1-1-5 of this Chapter, unless lawfully authorized to bear arms in the
discharge of his duties.
   B.   No person shall kill or wound or attempt to kill or wound within the
Village limits, any bird or animal by the use of any smoothbore or rifled
weapon be it powered by gunpowder, compressed air, gas or spring or by use of a
bow and arrows, slingshot or similar weapon or device. (Ord. 93-33, 12-22-1993)
4-1-1-3: BOW AND ARROW, SLINGSHOT, ETC.:
   A.   No person shall use a bow and arrows, slingshot or other similar
weapons or devices within the Village limits for the purpose of striking or
damaging any public or private property. (Ord. 93-33, 12-22-1993; amd. Ord. 98-
04, 2-25-1998)
   B.   1. It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot, release or otherwise
project an arrow, bolt, missile or other projectile from, into, or upon a
residentially zoned property where such arrow, bolt, missile or projectile is:
         a.   Shot or released from a bow device (standard, compound or
crossbow); and
         b.   Such bow device is rated either as having a draw of fifteen (15)
pounds or more, or a velocity of fifty feet (50') per second or more.
      2.   This Section shall not be applicable where:
         a.   The shooting, releasing or projecting activity is carried on
completely indoors; or
         b.   Where the point of the release of such arrow, bolt, missile or
other projectile is one thousand feet (1,000') or more from an adjacent
residentially zoned property.
      3.   No targeting object for purposes of this subsection B shall be
located within two hundred feet (200') of an adjacent residentially zoned
property.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to promote, sponsor, hold or
participate in any outdoor archery competition within or upon a residentially
zoned property unless:
         a.   Such competition complies with the Federation Internationale de
tir a l'arc rules of competition; and
         b.   A permit for such competition is obtained from the Village; and
         c.   The site or sites of the competition is in compliance with
subsection B2a and B2b of this Section.
   C.   An applicant for a permit under this section shall include in the
application a certification of compliance hereunder and shall also show by
sufficient detail that facilities will be installed to assure that no arrow,
bolt or missile will stray beyond twenty feet (20') of the vertical plane of
the competition target. (Ord. 98-04, 2-25-1998)
4-1-1-4: HUNTING:
No hunting of any bird or animal by the use of any weapon or device shall be
permitted within the village limits. (Ord. 93-33, 12-22-1993)
4-1-1-5: SHOOTING RANGES:
The board of trustees may authorize the establishment of any properly organized
public or private shooting range within the village limits. The type of
firearms used on such a range shall be governed strictly by standards of safety
to the general public. (Ord. 61-05, 10-28-1961)
4-1-1-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this section
4-1-1 shall be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 61-05, 10-28-1961; amd.
Ord. 2001-O-05, 3-28-2001)
4-1-2: TRESPASSING, POACHING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass or poach for any reason or
purpose upon any private property located in the village without first securing
the consent of the owner of said property or the consent of a duly authorized
agent of said owner. Any person violating this section shall be fined not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 76-05, 9-22-1976; amd. Ord. 2001-O-05, 3-28-
2001)
CHAPTER 2
SOLICITING, PEDDLING
SECTION:
4-2-1: Permit Required
4-2-2: Application For Permit, Approval
4-2-3: Permit Form
4-2-4: Fee
4-2-5: Regulations Regarding Solicitations
4-2-6: Consent Of Owner Required
4-2-7: Penalty
4-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
All soliciting, selling of goods, wares or merchandise, or the taking of orders
or the solicitation of orders for the sale of any goods, wares and merchandise,
or the distribution thereof from house to house and place to place is hereby
expressly prohibited, unless the person shall first have secured a permit so to
do. No permit shall be required under this chapter for any religious or
political canvassing, or for any effort to enlist support for a cause that does
not involve fundraising. (Ord. 2003-O-6, 5-28-2003)
4-2-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT, APPROVAL:
Any person desiring a permit hereunder shall make application therefor to the
president of the board of trustees of the village in writing, which application
shall state the purpose, object and time for which such permit is desired, and
the name of the party or parties desiring the same. The president of the
village shall grant a permit to the applicant or refuse a permit as in his
judgment shall be most beneficial for the interest of the village. (Ord. 62-O-
04, 5-23-1962)
4-2-3: PERMIT FORM:
The permit shall be under the name of the village; shall be executed by the
clerk of the village; shall state the object and purpose of said permit, and
the amount paid therefor; shall contain a statement that said permit is issued
and accepted subject to the ordinances then in force, or to become in force,
relating to the subject matter thereof, and that the same is subject to
revocation by the president of the village. No permit shall be issued to extend
beyond the last day of the municipal year. (Ord. 62-O-04, 5-23-1962)
4-2-4: FEE:
The fee for a permit hereunder is hereby fixed at ten dollars ($10.00) per day
for each person and at that rate for each and every day said permit is to
continue. (Ord. 62-O-04, 5-23-1962)
4-2-5: REGULATIONS REGARDING SOLICITATIONS:
   A.   No person shall act as a house to house, place to place solicitor,
salesman or canvasser excepting between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
and five o'clock (5:00) P.M., and no such person shall operate on Sunday.
   B.   No person shall canvass, fundraise, solicit, sell goods, wares or
merchandise, or take orders or solicit orders for the sale of any goods, wares
and merchandise, or the distribution thereof on any street, roadway, or
highway, or part thereof, within the village. For purposes of this subsection,
the terms "street", "roadway", and "highway" shall have the definition provided
in the Illinois vehicle code 1 . (Ord. 2003-O-07, 6-25-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/100 et seq.
4-2-6: CONSENT OF OWNER REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to enter any residential premises, for the purpose of
selling or taking orders for any commodity or service, or for soliciting
contributions or memberships of any nature without the express or implied
consent of the occupant of such premises. (Ord. 62-O-04, 5-23-1962)
4-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
or penalty of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense, and each day a violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 62-O-04, 5-23-1962)
CHAPTER 3
WILD ANIMALS, REPTILES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Purpose
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Wild Animals, Reptiles Prohibited
4-3-4: Violations
4-3-5: Penalty
4-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to maintain the safety, welfare and tranquility
of the residents of the village. (Ord. 76-07, 11-23-1976)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
ANIMAL: Includes wild and tame wild animals and shall not be limited to, but
will include, the following animals: lion, tiger, leopard, ocelot, jaguar,
cheetah, margay, mountain lion, Canada lynx, bobcat, jaguarundi, hyena, coyote,
and any other wild animal.
RAISING OF WILD ANIMALS, TAME WILD ANIMALS OR REPTILES: Applies to the raising
of wild animals, tame wild animals and reptiles for hobby and/or profit.
REPTILE: Shall not be limited to, but will include, poisonous reptiles or
nonpoisonous reptiles. (Ord. 76-07, 11-23-1976)
4-3-3: WILD ANIMALS, REPTILES PROHIBITED:
No person, business association, corporation, residence, or any other
association, club, or group may keep any lion, tiger, leopard, ocelot, jaguar,
cheetah, margay, mountain lion, Canada lynx, bobcat, jaguarundi, hyena, coyote,
or any other wild animal, poisonous reptile, or nonpoisonous reptile, within
the corporate limits of the village.
Any wild animal or reptile which has been domesticated will not be exempt from
the enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 76-07, 11-23-1976)
4-3-4: VIOLATIONS:
Any person violating this chapter shall be guilty of a petty offense and must
remove the animal or reptile from the village within ten (10) days after
notification that a violation has occurred. (Ord. 76-07, 11-23-1976)
4-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
or penalty of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 76-07, 11-23-1976; amd.
Ord. 2001-O-05, 3-28-2001)
CHAPTER 4
MISDEMEANORS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Vandalism
4-4-1: VANDALISM:
   A.   Definitions: Whenever any of the following terms shall be used in this
Section, they shall have the meanings indicated:
    JUVENILE: Includes a person who has attained ten (10) years of age but who
has not yet reached eighteen (18) years of age.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: Includes a person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a
juvenile by a circuit court of this State or any other state, but does not
include a person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a minor under the
Illinois Juvenile Court Act 1 .
   PARENT: Includes the lawful father or mother of an unemancipated juvenile,
whether by birth or adoption.
   PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY: Includes any real estate including improvements thereof, and
personalty, whether tangible or intangible.
   B.   Offenses: No person shall commit any of the following acts within the
corporate limits of the Village:
      1.   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly damage, deface or destroy any
property of another person without his consent; or
      2.   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly, by means of fire or explosive
device, damage, deface or destroy any property of another person; or
      3.   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly start a fire on the land of
another person without his consent; or
      4.   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly deposit on the land or in a
building of another person, without his consent, any stink bomb, or any
offensive smelling compound and thereby interfere with the use and occupancy by
another of the land or building; or
      5.   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly and without authority enter
into any building, house trailer, motor vehicle, aircraft or watercraft or any
part thereof of another person without his consent.
      6.   Commit theft. A person commits theft when he knowingly:
         a.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the
owner; or
         b.   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner; or
         c.   Obtains by threat control over property of the owner; or
         d.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce
him to believe that the property was stolen, and
            (1)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or
benefit of the property; or
            (2)   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such
manner as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
            (3)   Uses, conceals or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
   C.   Penalty: The following penalties shall be imposed upon any person
convicted of a violation of this section:
      1.   Such restitution or reparation as the court may require in an amount
not to exceed actual loss or damage to property or pecuniary loss. Nothing in
this subsection C1 shall preclude such additional civil remedies available to a
complaining party for any sum not recovered. (Ord. 87-10, 8-26-1987)
      2.   In addition or in lieu of such restitution or reparation as
hereinabove provided, a fine of not in excess of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each such offense. In the event the person convicted is an
unemancipated juvenile, said fine may be imposed upon the parent or legal
guardian of said unemancipated juvenile pursuant to subsection D of this
section. (Ord. 87-10, 8-26-1987; amd. Ord. 2001-O-05, 3-28-2001)
   D.   Liability:
      1.   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated juvenile who
resides with such parent or legal guardian is liable for actual damages for the
wilful or malicious acts of such juvenile which cause injury to a person or
property.
Said juvenile shall be deemed to have committed the offense or offenses
enumerated in this section with the knowledge, consent, acquiescence, and
permission of the parent or legal guardian, in violation of this section.
The said parent or legal guardian shall be liable for fine, requirement of
restitution or reparation imposed by a court upon the juvenile defendant for
violation of this section.
      2.   The sanctions of this section shall apply after said parent or legal
guardian shall have received a written notice thereof, either by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service, with a
certificate of personal service returned from the village prior to the
institution of any judicial sanction or penalty.
In any action brought against an unemancipated juvenile pursuant to the
provisions of this section, the parent or legal guardian shall be made a party
defendant. Failure to include such parent or legal guardian as a party
defendant shall release him from any liability for fine, restitution or
reparation imposed upon the minor defendant. (Ord. 87-10, 8-26-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 5
MINORS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Curfew
4-5-3: Cruelty To Minors
4-5-4: Purchase, Possession Or Use Of Alcoholic Liquors
4-5-5: Parental Responsibility
4-5-6: Firearms For Minors
4-5-7: Truancy Prohibited
4-5-8: Penalty
4-5-9: Liability
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever any of the following terms shall be used in this chapter, they shall
have the meanings indicated:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Any alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a minor by a
circuit court of the state, but does not include a person appointed guardian,
or given custody, of a minor under the juvenile court act 1 , approved August
5, 1965, as now or hereafter amended.
MINOR: A person who is above the age of eleven (11) years, but not yet nineteen
(19) years of age.
PARENT: Includes the lawful father or mother of an unemancipated juvenile,
whether by birth or adoption.
PERSON: Any natural person, partnership, trust, corporation or association.
Whenever used with respect to any penalty, the term "person", as applied to
partnerships or associations, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and
as applied to trusts or corporations, shall mean the trustees or officers
thereof. (Ord. 87-09, 8-26-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
4-5-2: CURFEW:
   A.   It is unlawful for a person less than seventeen (17) years of age to be
present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway at
the following times unless accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal
guardian or other responsible companion at least eighteen (18) years of age
approved by parent or legal guardian or unless engaged in a business or
occupation which the laws of this state authorize a person less than seventeen
(17) years of age to perform:
Between 12:01 A.M. and 6:00 A.M. Saturday;
Between 12:01 A.M. and 6:00 A.M. Sunday; and
Between 11:00 P.M. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00 A.M. on the
following day.
   B.   It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or other person to
knowingly permit a person in his custody or control to violate subsection A of
this section. (Ord. 87-09, 8-26-1987)
4-5-3: CRUELTY TO MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit, cause or knowingly permit any of
the following offenses against minors:
   A.   Abandon any minor.
   B.   Unnecessarily fail to provide any minor in his charge or custody with
proper food, drink, shelter or clothing.
   C.   Cruelly beat, torture, overwork or mutilate any child.
   D.   Unreasonably expose to inclement weather or in any manner injure a
minor in health or limb. (Ord. 87-09, 8-26-1987)
4-5-4: PURCHASE, POSSESSION OR USE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty one (21) years of age to
purchase, solicit another person to procure, possess or consume alcoholic
liquor. (Ord. 87-09, 8-26-1987)
4-5-5: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to permit any minor child of
which he or she is the parent or guardian to violate section
4-5-4 of this chapter. However, nothing in this chapter shall limit the
liability of parents and guardians under the provisions of any ordinance on
alcoholic liquor dealers. (Ord. 87-09, 8-26-1987)
4-5-6: FIREARMS FOR MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, loan or furnish to any minor any
gun, pistol or other firearms, except that minors may be permitted, with the
consent of their parents or guardians, to use firearms on the premises of a
duly licensed shooting gallery, gun club or rifle club, or to shoot game birds
in accordance with applicable law. (Ord. 87-09, 8-26-1987)
4-5-7: TRUANCY PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) enrolled in
a public, private or parochial school within the corporate limits of the
village to absent himself or herself from attendance at school without parental
permission. Any person who shall so absent himself or herself shall be guilty
of the offense of truancy and be subject to the penalties hereinafter set forth
in this chapter. Emergency or unforeseen absences due to illness or other
causes beyond the control of the person so absenting himself or herself from
school without parental permission shall not constitute truancy if permission
for such absence has substantially been obtained from the parent and such
permission is submitted in writing to the proper school authorities within
twenty four (24) hours after such absence. (Ord. 87-09, 8-26-1987)
4-5-8: PENALTY:
The following penalties shall be imposed upon any person convicted of a
violation of this chapter:
   A.   Such restitution or reparation as the court may require in an amount
not to exceed actual loss or damage to property or pecuniary loss. Nothing in
this subsection shall preclude such additional civil remedies available to a
complaining party for any sum not recovered. (Ord. 87-09, 8-26-1987)
   B.   In addition or in lieu of such restitution or reparation as hereinabove
provided, a fine of not in excess of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each such offense. Said fine may be imposed upon the parent or legal guardian
pursuant to section
4-5-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 87-09, 8-26-1987; amd. Ord. 2001-O-05, 3-28-2001)
4-5-9: LIABILITY:
   A.   The parent or a guardian of an unemancipated minor who resides with
such a legal guardian is liable for actual damages for the wilful or malicious
acts of such minor which cause injury to a person or property; provided, that
the maximum recovery under this section shall not exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) actual damages for each person or entity injured, for each
occurrence of such wilful or malicious acts by the minor causing the injury, in
addition to taxable court costs. In determining damages to be allowed in an
action under this section for personal injury, only medical, dental and
hospital expenses and expenses for treatment by Christian Science practitioners
and nursing care may be considered.
   B.   Upon conviction thereof, a minor shall be deemed to have committed the
offense or offenses enumerated in this chapter with the knowledge, consent,
acquiescence, and permission of the parent or legal guardian, in violation of
this chapter, and the said parent or legal guardian shall be liable for any
fine, requirement of restitution or reparation imposed by a court upon the
minor defendant for violation of this chapter.
   C.   The liabilities provided in this section shall apply after said parent
or legal guardian shall have received a written notice thereof, either by
certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service,
with a certificate of personal service returned from the village prior to the
institution of any judicial action for recovery thereof.
   D.   In any action brought pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, the
parent or legal guardian shall be made a party defendant. Failure to include
such parent or legal guardian as a party defendant shall release him from any
liability for fine, restitution or reparation imposed upon the minor defendant.
(Ord. 87-09, 8-26-1987)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Animal Waste Accumulation
4-6-3: Abatement Of Public Nuisances
4-6-4: Penalty
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms used in this chapter shall have meanings as indicated:
HEALTH NUISANCE: Includes the following acts, omissions, places, conditions and
things and are hereby specifically declared to be public health nuisances, but
shall not be construed to exclude other health nuisances as defined in other
sections of this chapter:
   A.   All decayed, harmfully adulterated or unwholesome food or drink sold or
offered for sale to the public.
   B.   Carcasses of animals, birds or fowl not buried or otherwise disposed of
in a sanitary manner within twenty four (24) hours after death.
   C.   Accumulations of decayed animal or vegetable matter (excluding
composting), trash, rubbish, rotting lumber, bedding, packing material,
abandoned vehicles or machinery, scrap metal or any material in which flies,
mosquitoes, disease carrying insects, rats or other vermin may breed, or which
may constitute a fire hazard.
   D.   The deposit of garbage, rubbish, junk or dismantled vehicles or any
offensive substance on any street, sidewalk or public place, or on any private
property, except as may be permitted by ordinance.
   E.   Throwing or depositing or causing to be thrown or deposited, any offal
or other offensive matter, or the carcass of any animal, in any watercourse,
pond, spring or well.
   F.   Any obstruction in or across any watercourse or drainage ditch.
   G.   Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the water of any spring,
stream, pond, lake or drinking hydrant or any other potable water source to the
injury or prejudice of others.
   H.   The pollution of any public well, cistern, stream, lake, pond, or other
body of water or other potable water source by sewage or industrial wastes or
other substances.
   I.   Burning or setting fire to, or causing to be burned or set fire to any
garbage, or any refuse material of any nature within the village limits, at any
time.
MORALS AND DECENCY OFFENDING NUISANCES: Includes the following acts, omissions,
places, conditions and things and are hereby specifically declared to be public
nuisances offending public morals and decency, but such enumeration shall not
be construed to exclude other nuisances offending public morals or decency as
defined in other sections of this chapter:
   A.   All disorderly houses, bawdyhouses, houses of ill fame, gambling houses
and buildings or structures kept or resorted to for the purpose of
prostitution, promiscuous sexual intercourse or gambling. Provided, however,
video gaming establishments shall be excluded from "gambling houses" when such
gaming is conducted in accordance with the Illinois video gaming act enacted
July 13, 2009, and also conducted in accordance with title 13 of this code.
   B.   All illegal gambling devices.
   C.   All public places where intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages
are sold, possessed, stored or brewed, bottled, manufactured or rectified
without a permit or license from the village.
   D.   Any place or premises within the village where ordinances or state laws
regulating public health, safety, peace, morals or welfare are openly,
continuously, repeatedly and intentionally violated.
PEACE AND SAFETY: Includes the following acts, omissions, places, conditions
and things and are hereby declared to be public nuisances affecting peace and
safety, but such enumeration shall not be construed to exclude other nuisances
affecting public peace or safety as defined in other sections of this chapter:
   A.   All unauthorized signs, signals, markings or devices which purport to
be or may be mistaken as official traffic control devices placed or maintained
upon or in view of any public highway or railway crossing.
   B.   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
persons driving vehicles on public streets or highways from obtaining a clear
view of traffic when approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk.
   C.   All limbs of trees which project over a public walk less than eight
feet (8') above the surface thereof or less than fifteen feet (15') above the
surface of a public street.
   D.   All buildings or structures so old, dilapidated or out of repair as to
be dangerous, unsafe, abandoned, incomplete, unsanitary or otherwise unfit.
   E.   All wires or other obstructions over streets or public grounds which
are strung less than fifteen feet (15') above the surface of such street or
ground.
   F.   All loud and/or discordant noises or vibrations of any kind, which
disturb the peace or quiet of the neighborhood or of any person residing in the
vicinity of such disturbance.
   G.   No junked vehicle or parts thereof shall be parked, stored or left in
the open on private property or abandoned on or in proximity of any public
street or public grounds within the village. Junked vehicle includes motor
vehicles, trailers, automotive repair equipment and the like, in either
wrecked, discarded, dismantled, inoperative or abandoned condition. Automotive
antiques being refurbished on private property will not be included as a junked
vehicle.
   H.   The throwing or depositing of any litter in or upon any street, walkway
or other public place within the village, except in public receptacles or in
authorized private receptacles for collection. This provision shall include the
throwing or depositing of litter from a vehicle in standing or moving
condition.
   I.   All obstructions of streets, walkways or crosswalks, and all
excavations in or under the same, except as permitted by ordinances by the
village, or which, although made in accordance with such ordinances, are kept
or maintained for an unreasonable length of time after the purpose thereof has
been accomplished.
   J.   All nonpermitted open and unguarded pits, wells, excavations or unused
basements freely accessible from any public street or walkway.
   K.   Any debris or accumulation of refuse, in or directly adjacent to storm
drains or natural runoff ditches.
   L.   Any uncontrolled growth of vegetation of any kind in storm drains or
natural runoff ditches. This shall include the growth of roots or shrubs
adjacent to said drains and ditches that may obstruct the flow or drainage of
water in its natural direction.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: A thing, act, occupation, condition or use of property which
shall continue for such length of time as to:
   A.   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose or
safety of the public;
   B.   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property;
   C.   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
   D.   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct, or render dangerous for passage any street, highway, navigable body
of water or other public way. (Ord. 89-01, 2-22-1989; amd. Ord. 2014-O-01, 3-
26-2014)
4-6-2: ANIMAL WASTE ACCUMULATION:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: It is hereby declared that the keeping, storing,
accumulating or stockpiling of horse manure, used straw or other bedding
materials and other related materials at or about an equestrian club or other
facility for the keeping of more than two (2) horses in a residential district
in the village is a public nuisance.
   B.   Removal Of Waste Required: Any person operating an equestrian club or
other facility for the keeping of more than two (2) horses in a residential
district shall promptly remove and dispose of all horse manure, used straw and
other bedding materials and other related materials by having such materials
removed from the village not less often than daily; provided that, if indoor
enclosed facilities for the storage of such materials are used, the removal may
be not less often than biweekly. In no event shall any such materials be
temporarily or permanently kept, stored or permitted to accumulate outside
enclosed indoor facilities for more than twenty four (24) hours.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall, upon
conviction, be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), and each day
that a violation is allowed to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
87-04, 6-24-1987)
4-6-3: ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES:
   A.   Enforcing Officer: The code enforcement officer of the village shall be
the enforcing officer of the provisions of this chapter. He/she shall make
regular written reports to the village board of all violations observed and
complaints received relating to public nuisances, and of all actions taken in
response thereto. Whenever practicable, the code enforcement officer shall
cause photographs to be made of the public nuisance observed or reported, and
attach them to the written report.
   B.   Summary Abatement:
      1.   Nuisances Requiring Immediate Action:
         a.   Notice To Owner: If the code enforcement officer shall determine
that a public nuisance exists on private property and that there is great and
immediate danger to the public health, safety, peace, morals or decency, he/she
may serve or cause to be served a notice upon the owner, or, if the owner
cannot be found, on the occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining
such nuisance, or if no such person be found, by posting a notice on the
premises. Such notice shall direct the owner, occupant or person causing,
permitting or maintaining such nuisance to abate or remove such nuisance within
a reasonable time designated, and shall state that unless such nuisance is so
abated, the village will cause the same to be abated and will charge the cost
thereof to the owner, occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining the
same, as the case may be.
         b.   Abatement By Village: If the nuisance is not abated within the
time provided, or if the owner, occupant or person causing the nuisance cannot
be found, the code enforcement officer shall cause the abatement or removal of
such public nuisance.
      2.   Nuisances Not Requiring Immediate Action:
         a.   Notice To Owner: If the code enforcement officer shall determine
that a public nuisance exists on private property and that there is not any
great and immediate danger to the public health, safety, peace, morals or
decency, he/she shall serve or cause to be served a notice upon the owner, or
if the owner cannot be found, on the occupant or person causing, permitting or
maintaining such nuisance, or if no such person be found, by posting a notice
on the premises. Such notice shall direct the owner, occupant or person
causing, permitting or maintaining such nuisance to abate or remove such
nuisance within a reasonable time designated therein, and shall state that
unless such nuisance is so abated, the village may commence an action to cause
the said nuisance to be abated, and may ask that the penalty provisions of this
chapter be enforced against the owner, occupant or person causing, permitting
or maintaining the same, as the case may be. Abatement actions for Abandoned,
Inoperable, and Unregistered Vehicles may be taken under the provisions of
Chapter 4-13 of this Title 4.
         b.   Abatement By Court Action: If the nuisance is not abated within
the time provided, the code enforcement officer shall cause an action in the
name of the village to be commenced to cause the abatement or removal of such
public nuisance.
   C.   Cost Of Abatement: In addition to any other penalty imposed by this
chapter for the erection, contrivance, creation, continuance or maintenance of
a public nuisance, the cost of abating a public nuisance by the village shall
be collected as a debt from the owner, occupant or person causing, permitting
or maintaining the nuisance, and if notice to abate the nuisance has been given
to the owner, such cost shall be assessed against the real estate as other
special taxes. (Ord. 89-01, 2-22-1989; amd. Ord. 2020-O-09, 9-23-2020)
4-6-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall be fined in an amount of not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation. Each day, after being notified of a violation in
writing by the village or an officer or employee of the village, shall be
construed as a separate violation. (Ord. 89-01, 2-22-1989; amd. Ord. 2001-O-05,
3-28-2001)
CHAPTER 7
RABIES AND ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Rabies And Animal Control
4-7-3: Enforcement
4-7-4: Registration Fees
4-7-5: Limitation On Number Of Animals
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the definitions set forth in the Illinois
animal control act, 510 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq., are hereby
adopted. (Ord. 91-O-01, 1-12-1991)
4-7-2: RABIES AND ANIMAL CONTROL:
The provisions of the Illinois animal control act and of the Lake County board
of health ordinance, article X are hereby adopted as the rabies and animal
control provisions of this chapter insofar as such provisions relate to
inoculation against diseases, impoundment, registration, confinement, leashing
and other control of dogs and other animals. (Ord. 91-O-01, 1-12-1991)
4-7-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The board of trustees, by resolution or ordinance, may authorize and direct the
village authorities to enter into agreements with the county or with another
municipality, for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and of the
Illinois animal control act and of the Lake County board of health ordinance,
article X upon such terms as it may deem reasonable. (Ord. 91-O-01, 1-12-1991)
4-7-4: REGISTRATION FEES:
The board of trustees, by resolution or ordinance, shall establish registration
fees for the registration of animals as provided under section
4-7-2 of this chapter, and may provide that registration by another agency
under the terms of an enforcement agreement shall be in lieu of its own
registration. (Ord. 91-O-01, 1-12-1991)
4-7-5: LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF ANIMALS:
No person shall keep or permit more than a total of three (3) dogs and/or cats
over the age of four (4) months to be or remain in or about any detached
single-family residence, rooming house, building or lot, or more than a total
of two (2) dogs and/or cats in any other type of residence within the village.
(Ord. 2004-O-01, 2-25-2004)
CHAPTER 8
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-8-1: Open Burning Regulated
4-8-2: Recreational Fires Excepted
4-8-3: Permits
4-8-4: Regulations
4-8-5: Penalty
4-8-1: OPEN BURNING REGULATED:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person shall build, ignite, or
maintain any outdoor fire within the village limits, at any time. (Ord. 2001-O-
17, 9-5-2001)
4-8-2: RECREATIONAL FIRES EXCEPTED:
Outdoor fires as defined herein shall not include small outdoor recreational
wood burning fires, outdoor preparation of food by barbecue, the burning of
wood in indoor fireplaces, burning conducted for the purpose of fire department
training, or wetland burns as required by the U.S. army corps of engineers or
other regulatory agency. (Ord. 2001-O-17, 9-5-2001)
4-8-3: PERMITS:
Exceptions may be made for burning of dry wood (limited to tree limbs and
branches originating on the premises named in the permit) only. Such exceptions
shall be granted by a special permit only. Said permits shall be issued at the
discretion of the village administrator. Burning conducted under a special
permit shall conform to all regulations of this chapter as well as any
additional regulations prescribed by the village board. There shall be no fee
charged for the permits issued hereunder. (Ord. 2001-O-17, 9-5-2001)
4-8-4: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Burning hours for fires by permit shall be nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. –
seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
   B.   No outdoor recreational wood burning fire shall be larger than twenty
four inches (24") in diameter and no more than thirty six inches (36") in
height. No fire for which a permit has been issued shall be larger than five
feet (5') in diameter and no more than five feet (5') in height.
   C.   All recreational fires shall be contained within a portable "fire pit"
(defined as a device sold commercially, and designed and intended to contain
and control outdoor wood fires), a fire pit surrounded by stones not less than
one foot (1') high, or solid masonry fireplace designed and built for such
purposes. Such units shall only be used in accordance with manufacturer's
recommendations.
   D.   Burning shall be constantly attended by the resident of the property or
the person starting the fire.
   E.   No burning shall occur or be maintained when the wind velocity is in
excess of ten (10) miles per hour.
   F.   No burning shall occur on any public street or sidewalk.
   G.   Recreational fires shall not be used for the purpose of disposal of
garbage, debris construction waste or landscape waste. Only wood, charcoal or
commercially sold burning logs shall be used in recreational fires. All
recreational fires shall be extinguished by twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight.
   H.   Fires shall be extinguished in such a manner as not to produce smoke.
(Ord. 2001-O-17, 9-5-2001)
4-8-5: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first such offense and not less than
two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each subsequent offense. (Ord. 2001-O-17, 9-5-2001)
CHAPTER 9
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES REMOVAL AND ABATEMENT COSTS
SECTION:
4-9-1: Definitions
4-9-2: Liability For Hazardous Substance Incident Removal Or Abatement Costs
4-9-3: Removal Or Abatement Costs
4-9-4: Liberal Construability
4-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
ABANDONMENT: The act of leaving a thing with the intent not to retain
possession of or assert ownership or control over it. The intent need not
coincide with the act of leaving. It is prima facie evidence of the necessary
intent to abandon a vehicle(s), vessel(s), and/or container(s) containing a
hazardous substance that:
   A.   The vehicle(s), vessel(s), and/or container(s) has been left for more
than two (2) days unattended and unmoved; or
   B.   License plates or other identifying marks have been removed from the
vehicle(s), vessel(s), and/or container(s); or
   C.   The vehicle(s), vessel(s), and/or container(s) has been damaged or is
deteriorated so extensively that it has value only for junk or salvage; or
   D.   The owner or operator has been notified by a law enforcement agent to
remove the vehicle(s), vessel(s), and/or container(s) and it has not been
removed within twenty four (24) hours after notification.
CONTAINER: A receptacle used for the shipment of goods that meets one or more
of the following:
   A.   Of permanent character and strong enough for repeated use;
   B.   A cargo container used to transport small quantities of materials
(e.g., box, drum, carboy);
   C.   Specifically designed to facilitate the carriage of goods by one or
more modes of transport without intermediate reloading.
FIRE CHIEF: The fire chief of the village of Libertyville, or his authorized
representative.
FIRE DEPARTMENT: The Libertyville fire department, or any other agency
providing fire protection services within the village of Green Oaks.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE INCIDENT: Any emergency circumstance involving the sudden
release or threatened release of a hazardous substance which, in the judgment
of an emergency response authority, whether said emergency response authority
be the village, or a federal or state agency or other local agency, threatens
immediate and irreparable harm to the environment or the health, safety, or
welfare of any individual other than individuals exposed to the risks
associated with hazardous substances in the normal course of their employment.
"Hazardous substance incident" includes those incidents of releasing or
abandoning of a hazardous substance, whether or not such releasing or
abandoning is found to threaten immediate and irreparable harm, but such term
does not include any release of a hazardous substance authorized pursuant to
any federal, state, or local law or regulation.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES: A. Any material as designated pursuant to the federal
"comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act of
1980", 42 USC 9601(14), as amended; or
   B.   Any substance, material, waste, or mixture designated as a hazardous
material, waste, or substance according to 49 code of federal regulations (CFR)
or according to 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes, as amended, excluding highway
route controlled quantities of radioactive materials as defined in 49 CFR
173.403(1), excluding ores, the products from mining, milling, smelting, and
similar processing of ores, and the wastes and tailings therefrom, and
excluding special fireworks as defined in 49 CFR 173.88(d) when the aggregate
amount of flash powder does not exceed fifty (50) pounds; or
   C.   Any material which is listed on the list of environmental protection
agency pollutants, 40 CFR 401.15, as amended; or
   D.   Any material which is classified by the National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) as either a flammable liquid, a class II combustible liquid,
or a class III A combustible liquid; or
   E.   Any material which has been determined by the party storing it, or
having control of it, through testing or other objective means, to be likely to
create a significant potential or actual hazard to public health, safety, or
welfare or to the environment. This definition shall not establish a
requirement to test for the purposes of this chapter; or
   F.   Any material which has been determined by the fire chief, through
information based on appraisal and assessment from reliable resources, to be
likely to create a significant potential or actual hazard to public health,
safety, or welfare or to the environment. The fact that the material in
question is not designated as a hazardous substance pursuant to subsections A
through E of this definition or is excluded by the legislation of NFPA
classifications of subsections A through D of this definition does not preclude
the fire chief from determining that the material is a hazard, given the
totality of the particular facts and circumstances.
PERSON: Any individual, public or private corporation, partnership,
association, firm, trust, or estate, the state or any department, institution,
or agency thereof, any municipal corporation, county, city and county, or other
political subdivision of the state, or any other legal entity whatsoever which
is recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties.
RELEASE: Any actual or threatened spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping,
vaporizing, evaporating or disposing into the environment, but excludes: a) any
release which results in exposure to persons solely within a workplace, with
respect to a claim which such persons may assert against the employer of such
persons; b) emissions from the engine exhaust of a motor vehicle, rolling
stock, aircraft, vessel, or pipeline pumping station engine; c) release of
source, byproduct, or special nuclear material from a nuclear incident, as
those terms are defined in the atomic energy act of 1954, if such release is
subject to requirements with respect to financial protection established by the
nuclear regulatory commission under section 1870 of such act; d) the normal
application of fertilizer; and e) a release authorized pursuant to any federal,
state or local law or regulation.
REMOVE OR REMOVAL: The cleanup, containment, or removal of released hazardous
substances from the environment, such actions as may be necessary to be taken
in the event of the threat of release of hazardous substances into the
environment, such actions as may be necessary to monitor, assess, and evaluate
the release or threat of release of hazardous substances, the disposal of
removed material, or the taking of such other actions as may be necessary to
prevent, minimize, or mitigate damage to the public health or welfare or the
environment, which may otherwise result from a release or threat of release.
The term includes, in addition, without being limited to, security fencing or
other measures to limit access, provision of alternative water suppliers,
temporary evacuation and housing of threatened individuals, and any emergency
assistance which may be provided under the Illinois emergency management agency
act 1 , as amended.
VEHICLE: Any device which is capable of moving itself, or of being moved, from
place to place upon wheels or endless tracks. The term includes, but is not
limited to, any motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer.
VESSEL: A ship or other craft used in navigation; any structure which is made
to float upon the water or which does float upon the water.
VILLAGE: The village of Green Oaks, or, depending on the context, the
Libertyville fire department acting on behalf of the village of Green Oaks.
(Ord. 2004-O-04, 5-26-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305/5.
4-9-2: LIABILITY FOR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE INCIDENT REMOVAL OR ABATEMENT COSTS:
   A.   The fire department is authorized to remove or abate the effects of any
hazardous substance incident involving the actual or threatened release of
hazardous material: 1) upon or into property or facilities in the village, or
2) outside the corporate and/or response limits where the health, welfare, and/
or property of the village and/or those people within its protection are
endangered.
   B.   The following described persons shall be jointly and severally liable
to the village for the payment of all costs directly or indirectly incurred by
the village as a result of such removal and/or abatement activity:
      1.   The person or persons whose negligent, reckless, or wilful act or
omission proximately caused such release; and
      2.   The person or persons who owned or had custody or control of the
hazardous substance at the time of such release, without regard to fault or
proximate cause; and
      3.   The person or persons who owned or had custody or control of the
container, transport vehicle, or transport vessel which held such hazardous
substance at the time of, or immediately prior to, such release, without regard
to fault or proximate cause; and
      4.   Any person owning or in control of any real property from which a
hazardous substance is or may be released.
   C.   In the event that any person undertakes voluntarily or upon order of
the fire chief, to remove or abate the effects of any actual or threatened
hazardous substance release upon or into any property or facility in the
village, the fire chief may take such action as is necessary to supervise or
verify the adequacy of the removal or abatement. The person(s) described in
subsections B1 through B4 of this section shall be liable to the village for
all costs directly or indirectly incurred as a result of such supervision or
verification. (Ord. 2004-O-04, 5-26-2004)
4-9-3: REMOVAL OR ABATEMENT COSTS:
   A.   For purposes of this chapter, costs incurred by the village shall
include, but shall not be limited to, the following, whether incurred within
the village, or outside the village limits: actual labor costs of village or
fire department personnel, including benefits and administrative overhead;
costs of consultants whose expertise is required to remove or abate the
incident or to assess the nature and extent of damage done; cost of equipment
operation; replacement cost of vehicles or equipment which, in the
determination of the fire chief, is contaminated beyond reuse or repair;
laboratory costs; costs of materials or equipment obtained directly by the
village or fire department; cost of any contract or mutual aid labor and
materials; attorney fees incurred in collecting monies owed to the village by
liable parties.
   B.   When the action to remove or abate the effects of a hazardous substance
includes extinguishing a fire, the costs may only include the expenses, such as
those set forth in subsection A of this section, related to the hazardous
substance and not any expense related to extinguishing the fire.
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to change or
impair any right of recovery of subrogation arising under any mutual aid
agreement or any other ordinance, statute, or provision of law. No criminal or
quasi-criminal remedy for any wrongful action shall be excluded or impaired by
this chapter.
   D.   The village administrator shall allow for a reasonable time for payment
of the reimbursement amount and shall consider any written objections on the
type and amount of expense. In the event that no payment or response to the
request for reimbursement has been received within thirty (30) days from the
date of the invoice, the village administrator is authorized to direct the
village attorney to take appropriate legal action.
   E.   All amounts recovered by the village in reimbursement of fire
department costs shall be tendered to the fire department within thirty (30)
days of receipt by the village. (Ord. 2004-O-04, 5-26-2004)
4-9-4: LIBERAL CONSTRUABILITY:
This chapter shall be liberally construed to give effect to its purpose, which
is to shift the burden of liability for the aforesaid removal or abatement
costs from the citizens of Green Oaks to those responsible for the incident.
(Ord. 2004-O-04, 5-26-2004)
CHAPTER 10
NOISE
SECTION:
4-10-1: Unreasonable Noise
4-10-2: Disrupting Quiet Enjoyment Of Home Or Place Of Business
4-10-3: Excessive Sound Levels
4-10-4: Penalty
4-10-1: UNREASONABLE NOISE:
   A.   Sound Amplification: No person shall electronically amplify any sound,
or make any noise by means of any electronic amplifier, which is loud enough to
be audible to a person of normal hearing one hundred (100) or more feet beyond
the property line of the property upon which the loudspeakers are located
during the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. through seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M.
      1.   Each resident of a dwelling unit who is present within that dwelling
unit or upon the premises of that dwelling unit when such sound is amplified or
generated shall be responsible for the generation of that sound or noise
pursuant to the provisions of this section. However, it shall be a specific
defense to a violation of this provision that a resident of the dwelling unit
attempted to remedy the situation and was precluded from doing so or was
incapacitated or otherwise unable to remedy the situation.
      2.   The provisions of this section do not apply to sounds generated by
authorized emergency vehicles, to vehicle horns sounded as a danger warning
signal, to audible police alarm devices, to fire alarms, or to sound made on
property belonging to or leased or managed by a federal, state, or local
governmental body and made by an activity of that governmental body or by
others pursuant to a contract, lease, or permit granted by such governmental
body.
   B.   Trash Haulers: No person shall make any trash pick up with a truck
which has a compactor or the capacity to raise and dump dumpsters in any area
zoned for residential or business uses between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:
00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., and no employer shall fail to prevent
its employee from violating this subsection while the employee is driving a
trash truck owned by or under the control of the employer. For the purposes of
this subsection, testimony that the name of a business which holds itself out
as being in the business of trash hauling was written on the trash truck shall
be prima facie evidence that the trash truck was owned by or was under the
control of the employer so identified.
   C.   Trash Haulers; Variance: Trash haulers may apply to the village
administrator for a variance of the provisions of subsection B of this section
for business district locations. Possession of a valid variance shall be a
specific defense to any charge under subsection B of this section if the act
complained of was within the variance granted. The village administrator may
grant all or a part of any requested variance, and may place such conditions
upon any variance granted as are reasonably suited to limit the harmful effects
of the variance. Such variances shall be granted only if the applicant can
demonstrate to the village administrator's satisfaction:
      1.   That the location in question is sufficiently removed from any
residential use that the noise of trash removal will not disturb anyone in
their residence, including, without limitation, hotel and motel accommodations;
or
      2.   That the location cannot feasibly be serviced during permitted
hours, and that the variance is the least necessary to permit trash removal
while still assuring nearby residents reasonable nocturnal quiet.
   D.   General Construction And Carpentry: There shall be no outdoor
construction or carpentry other than as allowed by section
7-1-14, "Limitation On Construction Hours", of this code.
   E.   Operation Of Heavy Construction Equipment, Trucks Of Class D And Above
Registration, Excavation And Demolition: There shall be no operation of heavy
construction equipment, or excavation or demolition activities involving the
use of excavating or earthmoving equipment including loaders, backhoes,
jackhammers, or similar equipment other than as allowed by section
7-1-14, "Limitation On Construction Hours", of this code. (Ord. 2006-O-04, 6-
28-2006)
4-10-2: DISRUPTING QUIET ENJOYMENT OF HOME OR PLACE OF BUSINESS:
   A.   No person shall engage in, or be responsible for, a course of conduct
which is so loud or raucous that it materially interferes with or disrupts
another individual in the conduct of lawful activities at such individual's
home or place of business.
   B.   The following standards and definitions shall be used in the
application of this section:
      1.   The person engaging in such conduct must be at a location other than
the complainant's home or place of business.
      2.   "Home" or "place of business" includes the real property which
contains a structure or building as well as the outside premises.
      3.   "Another individual" includes all members of the household as well
as others rightfully in the residence or on the premises.
      4.   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section unless
that person has been warned that conduct violating this section is occurring or
has recently occurred and, following such warning, the conduct is repeated or
continued. However, no additional warning need be issued as a precondition to
enforcement of this provision if similar conduct occurred within the previous
ninety (90) days and if any village officer or employee communicated a warning
to an individual regarding his or her role in that past conduct. A prior
warning shall be sufficient with respect to each of the residents of an
individual dwelling unit, or with respect to the owner and each of the
employees at a place of business, at which a prior noise incident occurred, if
after a personal communication was made to a person who engaged in conduct
subject to the provisions of this section, the village administrator caused a
warning letter by first class mail to be sent to the address where the noise
incident occurred, addressed to "residents" of the dwelling unit in which the
person who received the prior warning resided at the time of the issuance of
the prior warning, or addressed to the "owner and employees" of the place of
business in which the person who received the prior warning worked at the time
of the issuance of the prior warning.
      5.   If conduct which violates this section originates upon private
property and the owner, manager, or some other person with authority to control
that property is present at the time that such conduct occurs and if that
owner, manager, or authorized person has received a warning as provided in
subsection B4 of this section, that owner, manager or authorized person shall
also be responsible for the repeated or continued conduct under this section,
even though not directly engaged in the conduct.
      6.   Factors for determining whether a noise is "so loud and raucous that
it materially interferes with or disrupts" include, but are not limited to, the
following:
         a.   Whether the noise would disturb a reasonable person of normal
sensitivity;
         b.   The proximity of the sound to sleeping facilities, whether
residential or commercial;
         c.   The land use, nature, and zoning of the area from which the sound
emanates and the area where it is received or perceived;
         d.   The time of day or night the sound occurs;
         e.   The duration of the sound; and
         f.   Whether the sound is recurrent, intermittent, or constant.
      7.   It is not a defense to a charge of a violation of this section that
the sound levels complied with the requirements of section
4-10-3, "Excessive Sound Levels", of this chapter.
      8.   This section is in full force and effect twenty four (24) hours
every day. (Ord. 2006-O-04, 6-28-2006)
4-10-3: EXCESSIVE SOUND LEVELS:
   A.   No person shall:
      1.   Operate any type of vehicle, machine, or device;
      2.   Carry on any activity; or
      3.   Promote or facilitate the carrying on of any activity, any of which
makes sound in excess of the level specified in this section.
   B.   Sound from a moving vehicular source located within the public right of
way shall not exceed eighty (80) decibels on the "A" weighting scale (dBA),
except that sound from a vehicle with a manufacturer's gross weight rating of
ten thousand (10,000) pounds and above operated on a prescribed truck route at
all times or elsewhere within the village during the hours of seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on Monday through Saturday may exceed
eighty (80) dBA but shall not exceed eighty eight (88) dBA. Such sound shall be
measured at a distance of at least twenty five feet (25') from a vehicle
located within the public right of way.
   C.   Sound from any source located within the village, other than a moving
vehicular source located within the public right of way, shall not exceed any
of the following limits:
      1.   The limit prescribed by this section for any source of sound shall
be the smallest number of decibels permitted based upon the zoning
classification or use of any property abutting the property upon which the
source of the sound is located, as set forth in the following table:
 
The Zoning Designation
(As Defined In The Zoning Maximum Number Of Decibels Maximum Number Of Decibels
Ordinance) Or Use Of      Permitted From 7:00 A.M.   Permitted From 11:00 P.M.
Property Abutting The     Until 11:00 P.M. Of The    Until 7:00 A.M. Of The
Property Upon Which The   Same Day                   Following Day
Source Of Sound Is
Located
   (All zoning designations include suffixes.)
SR-1, SR-1A, SR-1.5, SR-
2, SR-5, or any property  55 dBA                     50 dBA
used for a residential
purpose
OR, CR, CB, GB, AG, or
any property used for a   65 dBA                     60 dBA
commercial purpose
GI, LI, II, or any
property used for an      80 dBA                     75 dBA
industrial purpose
 
      2.   Sound from construction work for which a building permit has been
issued shall be deemed to be received in an industrial zoning district during
the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. for work of
any type, and until seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. for light construction work that
uses only hand tools and power tools (but not including nail guns) of no more
than five (5) horsepower. Under no circumstances shall amplified sound be
considered as construction work activity.
      3.   Sound from a source regulated by this subsection:
         a.   Sound from a source on any property located within the village
shall be measured within one foot (1') of any portion of the property line of
the property upon which the source of the sound is located.
         b.   For the purposes of this subsection, a leasehold shall be deemed
a property, and its boundary shall be deemed a property line.
   D.   All sound measurements shall be made on a sound level meter that meets
ANSI specification S1.4-1974 for type I or type II equipment. The
manufacturer's published indication of compliance with such specifications is
prima facie evidence of compliance with this subsection.
   E.   It is a specific defense to a charge of violating this section that:
      1.   The sound was made by an authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to an emergency call or acting in time of emergency;
      2.   The sound was made within the terms of a parade, fireworks display,
or temporary street closure permit issued by the village, or was made by the
rendering of military honors at a funeral by a military funeral honors detail;
      3.   The sound was made by an animal;
      4.   The sound was made by the sounding of the horn of any vehicle as a
danger warning signal or by the sounding of any warning device as required by
law;
      5.   The sound was made on property belonging to or leased or managed by
any federal, state or local governmental body and was made by an activity of
the governmental body or by others pursuant to a contract, lease, or permit
granted by such governmental body; or
      6.   The sound was made within the terms and conditions of a sound level
variance granted by the village administrator or the administrator's authorized
representative. A variance shall be granted after application is made if the
village administrator finds that compliance will cause an undue hardship and
further finds that:
         a.   Additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or modify
the activity or operation to comply with this section; or
         b.   The activity, operation or sound source will be of temporary
duration, and even with the application of the best available control
technology cannot be done in a manner that would comply with this section. In
either case, the village administrator must also find that no reasonable
alternative is available to the applicant. If the village administrator grants
a variance, the village administrator shall prescribe such reasonable
conditions or requirements as are necessary to minimize adverse effects upon
the community or the surrounding neighborhood.
   F.   This section shall not be construed to conflict with the right of any
person to maintain an action in equity to abate a noise nuisance under the laws
of this state.
   G.   Each offense or violation of this section constitutes a separate and
distinct violation. (Ord. 2006-O-04, 6-28-2006)
4-10-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or entity violating the terms and conditions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
with each and every day that the violation is allowed to exist. Each day that a
violation exists constitutes a distinct and separate offense under the terms of
this chapter. In addition, the corporate authority may take whatever action it
deems appropriate to enforce the terms of this chapter, including an action for
injunction. All attorney fees and costs incurred by the municipality in
enforcing the terms of this chapter shall be paid by the violator. (Ord. 2006-
O-04, 6-28-2006)
CHAPTER 11
WEEDS AND GRASS
SECTION:
4-11-1: Noxious Weeds Declared Nuisance
4-11-2: Removal Of Noxious Weeds
4-11-3: Destruction, Removal Or Cutting Noxious Weeds By Village; Lien
4-11-4: Grass; Cutting
4-11-5: Cutting Grass By Village; Lien
4-11-6: Notice Of Lien
4-11-1: NOXIOUS WEEDS DECLARED NUISANCE:
   A.   All noxious weeds, including, but not limited to, burdock, ragweed
(giant), ragweed (common), thistle, cocklebur, jimson, blue vervain, common
milkweed, wild carrot, poison ivy, wild mustard, rough pigweed, lamb's
quarters, wild lettuce, curled dock, smartweeds (all varieties), poison
hemlock, wild hemp, and weeds which due to pollination are a menace to health
and weeds otherwise injurious to public health or welfare, as well as grass in
excess of ten inches (10") in height are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or controlling any plot of
ground to permit the growth of such weeds and grass thereon. (Ord. 2009-O-10,
7-22-2009)
4-11-2: REMOVAL OF NOXIOUS WEEDS:
   A.   All such noxious weeds shall be cut, pulled, destroyed or chemically
sprayed with 2, 4-D sprays or other equally efficient chemical weedkiller by
the owner or person in control of the plot of ground at least twice a year,
once between May 1 and June 15 and once between July 15 and August 1 of each
year.
   B.   The failure to destroy such weeds within the designated periods shall
constitute a violation of this section.
   C.   In addition to liability for the cost of destruction of such weeds by
the village, the owner or person in control of any such plot of ground in the
village failing to destroy the weeds thereon within the designated periods of
time shall upon conviction be subject to the fine provided for violation of
this code. (Ord. 2009-O-10, 7-22-2009)
4-11-3: DESTRUCTION, REMOVAL OR CUTTING NOXIOUS WEEDS BY VILLAGE; LIEN:
   A.   When the owner or person in control of any plot of ground fails to cut,
destroy or spray noxious weeds growing thereon as provided herein, the village
administrator shall cut, destroy or cause to be cut or destroyed such weeds,
and any expense incurred by the village or under the authority of the village
administrator in so doing shall be a charge against the owner or other person
so failing, which may be recovered in an appropriate action at law or in equity
to be instituted on behalf of the village or the person performing the service
by authority of the village.
   B.   In addition to any other remedy provided by law, the village may file a
lien against the premises for its costs in cutting, abating or removing noxious
weeds. Such lien shall be in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-7, as now existing or as hereafter amended. (Ord.
2009-O-10, 7-22-2009)
4-11-4: GRASS; CUTTING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or controlling any plot of
ground to permit the growth of grass thereon to exceed a height of ten inches
(10").
   B.   The failure to cut such grass shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   C.   In addition to liability for the cost of cutting of such grass by the
village, the owner or person in control of any such plot of ground in the
village failing to cut such grass thereon shall upon conviction be subject to
the fine provided for violation of this code. (Ord. 2009-O-10, 7-22-2009)
4-11-5: CUTTING GRASS BY VILLAGE; LIEN:
   A.   When the owner or person in control of any plot of ground fails to cut
grass in excess of ten inches (10") in height growing thereon as provided
herein, the village administrator shall cut or cause to be cut such grass, and
any expense incurred by the village or under the authority of the village
administrator in so doing shall be a charge against the owner or other person
so failing, which may be recovered in an appropriate action at law or in equity
to be instituted on behalf of the village or the person performing the service
by authority of the village.
   B.   In addition to any other remedy provided by law, the village may file a
lien against the premises for its costs in cutting such grass. Such lien shall
be in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-
7, as now existing or as hereafter amended. (Ord. 2009-O-10, 7-22-2009)
4-11-6: NOTICE OF LIEN:
   A.   If weeds and/or grass are cut or removed by this village or by someone
directed to cut them on behalf of the village, a notice of lien of the cost and
expense thereof incurred by this village shall be recorded in the following
manner: The village may file notice of lien in the office of the county
recorder of deeds. The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement
setting out:
      1.   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      2.   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service;
      3.   The date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by the
village.
   B.   The above notice of lien shall be filed within the time limit provided
in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-15, or its successor statute.
   C.   Upon payment of the cost and expense, including all recording charges,
after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the village
or person in whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed
of record in the same manner as filing notice of the lien. (Ord. 2015-O-04, 1-
28-2015)
CHAPTER 12
SMOKE FREE AIR REGULATIONS AND CERTAIN PROHIBITIONS
ON THE SALE OF SMOKING MATERIALS AND PRODUCTS
SECTION:
4-12-1: Definitions
4-12-2: Smoking In Public Places, Places Of Employment, And Governmental
Vehicles Prohibited
4-12-3: Posting Of Signs; Removal Of Ashtrays
4-12-4: Smoking Prohibited In Student Dormitories
4-12-5: Designation Of Other Nonsmoking Areas
4-12-6: Exemptions
4-12-7: Enforcement; Complaints
4-12-8: Violations; Fines; Injunctions
4-12-9: Administrative Regulations
4-12-10: Prohibited Sales, Possession, Delivery, Signs
4-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
BAR OR TAVERN: An establishment that is devoted primarily to the serving of
alcoholic beverages for consumption by members of the public, or members or
guests of a private club on the premises and that derives no more than twenty
percent (20%) of its gross revenue from the sale of food consumed on the
premises. "Bar" includes, but is not limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail
lounges, and cabarets.
BUSINESS: Any sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation,
limited liability company, or other business entity formed for profitmaking
purposes.
ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE: An electronic and/or battery operated device, the
use of which may resemble smoking that can be used to deliver an inhaled dose
of nicotine or other substances. "Electronic smoking device" includes any such
device, whether manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an electronic
cigarette, an electronic cigar, an electronic cigarillo, an electronic pipe, an
electronic hookah, or any other product name or description.
EMPLOYEE: A person who is employed or retained by a business in consideration
for direct or indirect monetary wages or profit, and shall include the owner,
operator and manager of a sole proprietorship or other similar business entity,
and a person who volunteers his or her services for a nonprofit entity.
EMPLOYER: A person, business, partnership, association, or corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust, or nonprofit entity, which employs
the services of one or more individual persons.
ENCLOSED AREA: All space in any structure or building between a floor and a
ceiling that is enclosed or partially enclosed with: a) solid walls or windows,
exclusive of doorways, or b) solid walls with partitions and no windows,
exclusive of doorways, that extend from the floor to the ceiling, including,
without limitation, lobbies and corridors.
ENCLOSED OR PARTIALLY ENCLOSED SPORTS ARENA: Any sports pavilion, stadium,
gymnasium, health spa, boxing arena, swimming pool, roller rink, ice rink,
bowling alley, or other similar place where members of the general public
assemble to engage in physical exercise or participate in athletic competitions
or recreational activities or to witness sports, cultural, recreational, or
other events.
GAMING EQUIPMENT OR SUPPLIES: Gaming equipment/supplies as defined in the
Illinois gaming board rules of the Illinois administrative code.
GAMING FACILITY: An establishment utilized primarily or partially for the
purposes of gaming and where gaming equipment or supplies are operated for the
purposes of accruing business revenue.
HEALTHCARE FACILITY: Any office or institution providing care or treatment of
diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other medical,
physiological, or psychological conditions, including, but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals, weight control clinics, nursing homes,
homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories, and offices of surgeons,
chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists, and all specialists
within these professions. "Healthcare facility" includes all waiting rooms,
hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and wards within healthcare
facilities.
OPEN AIR DINING AREA: A seating area open to the air that is accessory to a bar
or tavern, restaurant, hotel, private club, or other public place engaged in
purveying food or beverage service where members of the public or members or
guests of a private club are invited to receive food and beverage service.
OUTDOOR PATIO: An area that is either: enclosed by a roof or other overhead
covering and walls or side coverings on not more than two (2) sides; or has no
roof or other overhead coverings regardless of the number of walls, fence or
other side coverings. This includes, but is not limited to, beer gardens or
other outdoor seating.
OUTDOOR PATIO PATRON: An individual who is occupying an outdoor patio.
PERMEABLE: Permitting smoke to pass through.
PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT: Any enclosed area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees, invitees or guests of the employer utilize during the
course of employment or during the course of the visit, including, without
limitation, common work areas, private offices, employee lounges and
breakrooms, restrooms, conference and meeting rooms, classrooms, cafeterias,
elevators, stairwells, hallways, medical facilities and private clubs. "Place
of employment" includes entrances and exits thereto including a minimum
distance of fifteen feet (15') from: a) each entrance and exit; b) windows that
open; c) ventilation intakes which serve an enclosed area where smoking is
prohibited. A private residence or home based business, unless used to provide
licensed childcare, foster care, adult care, or other similar social service
care on the premises, is not a "place of employment".
PRIVATE CLUB: A not for profit association that: a) has been in active and
continuous existence for at least three (3) years prior to January 1, 2008,
whether incorporated or not, b) is the owner, lessee, or occupant of a building
or portion thereof used exclusively for club purposes at all times, c) is
operated solely for a recreational, fraternal, social, patriotic, political,
benevolent, or athletic purpose, but not for pecuniary gain, and d) only sells
alcoholic beverages incidental to its operation. For purposes of this
definition, "private club" means an organization that is managed by a board of
directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members at an
annual meeting, has established bylaws, a constitution, or both to govern its
activities, and has been granted an exemption from the payment of federal
income tax as a club under 26 USC 501.
PRIVATE RESIDENCE: The part of a structure used as a dwelling, including,
without limitation: a private home, townhouse, condominium, apartment, mobile
home, vacation home, cabin, or cottage. For the purposes of this definition, a
hotel, motel, inn, resort, lodge, bed and breakfast or other similar public
accommodation, hospital, nursing home, or assisted living facility shall not be
considered a private residence.
PROPRIETOR: An owner, operator, manager, occupant, lessee, or other individual
in control of a public place or a place of employment.
PUBLIC PLACE: That portion of any building or vehicle open to and used by the
general public, regardless of whether the building or vehicle is owned in whole
or in part by private persons or entities, the village of Green Oaks, or any
other public entity and regardless of whether a fee is charged for admission,
including a minimum distance, as set forth in section
4-12-2 of this chapter, fifteen feet (15') from entrances, exits, windows that
open, and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area where smoking is
prohibited. A "public place" does not include a private residence unless the
private residence is used to provide licensed childcare, foster care, or other
similar social service care on the premises. A "public place" includes, but is
not limited to, hospitals, restaurants, retail stores, offices, commercial
establishments, elevators, indoor theaters, libraries, museums, concert halls,
public conveyances, educational facilities, nursing homes, auditoriums,
enclosed or partially enclosed sports arenas, meeting rooms, schools,
exhibition halls, convention facilities, polling places, private clubs, gaming
facilities, all government owned vehicles and facilities, including buildings
and vehicles owned, leased, or operated by the village of Green Oaks,
healthcare facilities or clinics, enclosed shopping centers, retail service
establishments, financial institutions, educational facilities, ticket areas,
public hearing facilities, public restrooms, waiting areas, lobbies, bars,
taverns, bowling alleys, skating rinks, reception areas, and no less than
seventy five percent (75%) of the sleeping quarters within a hotel, motel,
resort, inn, lodge, bed and breakfast, or other similar public accommodation
that are rented to guests, but excludes private residences.
RESTAURANT: A. An eating establishment, including, but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias,
that gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, or employees, and
   B.   A kitchen or catering facility in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere. "Restaurant" includes a bar area within the
restaurant.
RETAIL TOBACCO STORE: A retail establishment that derives more than eighty
percent (80%) of its gross revenue from the sale of loose tobacco, plants, or
herbs and cigars, cigarettes, pipes, and other smoking devices for burning
tobacco and related smoking accessories and in which the sale of other products
is merely incidental. "Retail tobacco store" does not include a tobacco
department or section of a larger commercial establishment or any establishment
with any type of liquor, food, or restaurant license.
SHOPPING MALL: Any enclosed walkway or hall area that serves to connect retail
or professional establishments.
SMOKE OR SMOKING: The carrying, smoking, burning, inhaling, or exhaling of any
kind of lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, hookah, weed, herbs, or any other
lighted smoking equipment and the term "smoke" or "smoking" includes the use of
an electronic smoking device. (Ord. 2014-O-30, 10-22-2014)
4-12-2: SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES, PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT, AND GOVERNMENTAL
VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
   A.   General Prohibition: No person shall smoke in a public place or in any
place of employment or within fifteen feet (15') of any entrance to a public
place or place of employment. No person may smoke in any vehicle owned, leased,
or operated by the village of Green Oaks and, if operated within the
jurisdictional boundaries of the village, owned or operated by the state of
Illinois or any political subdivision of the state. Smoking is prohibited in
indoor public places and workplaces unless specifically exempted by section
4-12-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Entrances, Exits, Windows, And Ventilation Intakes: Smoking is
prohibited within a minimum distance of fifteen feet (15') from entrances,
exits, windows that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area
where smoking is prohibited under this chapter so as to ensure that tobacco
smoke does not enter the area through entrances, exits, open windows, or other
means. (Ord. 2014-O-30, 10-22-2014)
4-12-3: POSTING OF SIGNS; REMOVAL OF ASHTRAYS:
   A.   "No Smoking" signs or the international "no smoking" symbol, consisting
of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle
with a red bar across it, shall be clearly and conspicuously posted in each
public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by this
chapter by the owner, operator, manager, or other person in control of that
place.
   B.   Each public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly
stating that smoking is prohibited.
   C.   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter by the owner, operator, manager, or other person having control
of the area. (Ord. 2014-O-30, 10-22-2014)
4-12-4: SMOKING PROHIBITED IN STUDENT DORMITORIES:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, smoking is prohibited in
any portion of the living quarters, including, but not limited to, sleeping
rooms, dining areas, restrooms, laundry areas, lobbies, and hallways, of a
building used in whole or in part as a student dormitory that is owned and
operated or otherwise utilized by a public or private institution of higher
education. (Ord. 2014-O-30, 10-22-2014)
4-12-5: DESIGNATION OF OTHER NONSMOKING AREAS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any employer, owner,
occupant, lessee, operator, manager, or other person in control of any public
place or place of employment may designate a nonenclosed area of a public place
or place of employment, including outdoor areas, as an area where smoking is
also prohibited provided that such employer, owner, lessee or occupant shall
conspicuously post signs prohibiting smoking in the manner described in
subsections
4-12-3A and B of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-O-30, 10-22-2014)
4-12-6: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Areas Exempted: Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter,
smoking is allowed in the following areas:
      1.   Private residences, except when used as a childcare, adult daycare,
or healthcare facility or any other home based business open to the public.
      2.   Retail tobacco stores as defined in section
4-12-1 of this chapter in operation prior to January 1, 2008. The retail
tobacco store shall annually file with the Illinois department of revenue by
January 31 an affidavit stating the percentage of its gross income during the
prior calendar year that was derived from the sale of loose tobacco, plants, or
herbs and cigars, cigarettes, pipes, or other smoking devices for smoking
tobacco and related smoking accessories. Any retail tobacco store that began
operation after January 1, 2008, may only qualify for an exemption if located
in a freestanding structure occupied solely by the business and smoke from the
business does not migrate into an enclosed area where smoking is prohibited.
      3.   Private and semiprivate rooms in nursing homes and long term care
facilities that are occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are smokers
and have requested in writing to be placed or to remain in a room where smoking
is permitted and the smoke shall not infiltrate other areas of the nursing
home.
      4.   Hotel and motel sleeping rooms that are rented to guests and are
designated as smoking rooms, provided that all smoking rooms on the same floor
must be contiguous and smoke from these rooms must not infiltrate into
nonsmoking rooms or other areas where smoking is prohibited. Not more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel may
be designated as rooms where smoking is allowed. The status of rooms as smoking
or nonsmoking may not be changed, except to permanently add additional
nonsmoking rooms. The owner, manager or proprietor of the hotel or motel shall
file with the village building department a sketch or other documents which
clearly discloses the total number of sleeping rooms and which of those
sleeping rooms are designated as smoking permitted rooms.
   B.   Outdoor Patio Exemption:
      1.   A proprietor may designate an area as an outdoor patio where smoking
is permitted only if the area:
         a.   Is fifteen feet (15') or more from entrances, exits, windows that
open and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area where smoking is
prohibited (section 70 of the act);
         b.   Is a contiguous area of a place of employment or public place;
         c.   Is controlled by the proprietor of the place of employment or
public place;
         d.   Has:
            (1)   At least one side that consists of open space;
            (2)   Permeable material;
            (3)   A combination of open space and permeable material; or
            (4)   A combination of open space, permeable material, and a
nonpermeable wall.
      2.   If this area has four (4) nonpermeable walls, it shall have either
no overhead covering or an overhead covering that consists of:
         a.   Permeable material; or
         b.   A combination of open space and permeable material.
      3.   If an outdoor patio where smoking is permitted has a doorway that
provides access from the indoor/enclosed area to the patio for outdoor patio
patrons and does not have a wall that prevents individuals from entering the
outdoor patio, the proprietor shall:
         a.   Inform individuals that the doorway:
            (1)   Is not an entrance to the indoor/enclosed area; and
            (2)   Is a doorway for outdoor patio patrons.
         b.   Direct individuals who are not outdoor patio patrons to an
entrance to the indoor/enclosed area.
   C.   Designation Of Smoking Areas: A proprietor may designate smoking and
nonsmoking sections of an outdoor patio only if the smoking section is clearly
and conspicuously separated from the nonsmoking section and if the smoking area
is at least fifteen feet (15') away from the entrance, exit, windows that open,
and ventilation intakes.
   D.   Smoke Containment: If a proprietor designates an area where smoking is
permitted, the proprietor shall not permit tobacco smoke to drift into indoor
areas where smoking is prohibited through entrances, windows, ventilation
systems, or other means.
   E.   Smoking Prohibited Area: A proprietor may designate an area of the
outdoor patio where smoking is prohibited. (Ord. 2014-O-30, 10-22-2014)
4-12-7: ENFORCEMENT; COMPLAINTS:
   A.   The police authority serving the village of Green Oaks shall enforce
the provisions of this chapter and may assess fines pursuant to section
4-12-8 of this chapter.
   B.   Any person may register a complaint with the village for a violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 2014-O-30, 10-22-2014)
4-12-8: VIOLATIONS; FINES; INJUNCTIONS:
   A.   A person, corporation, partnership, association or other entity who
violates a provision of this chapter shall be fined pursuant to this section.
Each day that a violation occurs or continues to exist is a separate violation.
   B.   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited under
section
4-12-2 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount that is not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00). A person who owns, operates, or otherwise controls a public place or
place of employment that violates section
4-12-2 of this chapter shall be fined: 1) not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) for the first violation, 2) not less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for the second violation within one year after the first
violation, and 3) not less than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00)
for each additional violation within one year after the first violation.
   C.   The village attorney, with the approval of the village board, is
authorized to seek, on behalf of the village, an injunction from the circuit
court to restrain and enjoin repeated violations of this chapter.
   D.   The fines and remedies provided under this section are not exclusive
and are cumulative with any remedy and penalty provided by law. (Ord. 2014-O-
30, 10-22-2014)
4-12-9: ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS:
Insofar as they may be applicable to the administration of this chapter, the
rules and regulations adopted from time to time by the Illinois department of
public health pursuant to the administration of public act 95-17, effective
January 1, 2008, as amended, shall be utilized in the administration and
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. Provided, however, the village
president may adopt such additional and further rules and regulations as will
effectively carry out the purposes and intent of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-O-30,
10-22-2014)
4-12-10: PROHIBITED SALES, POSSESSION, DELIVERY, SIGNS:
   A.   Sale To Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person or legal entity, to
sell, offer for sale, give away or deliver any tobacco accessories, tobacco
products, smoking herbs, electronic smoking device, or nicotine delivery
component for an electronic smoking device, to any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Possession By Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of eighteen (18) years to possess any tobacco accessories, tobacco products,
smoking herbs, nicotine delivery system component, or electronic smoking
device; provided that such possession by a person under the age of eighteen
(18) years under the direct supervision of the parent or guardian of such
person in the privacy of the parent's or guardian's home shall not be
prohibited.
   C.   Use Of Identification Cards: No person in the furtherance or
facilitation of obtaining tobacco accessories, tobacco products, or smoking
herbs shall display or use a false or forged identification card or transfer,
alter, or deface an identification card.
   D.   Certain Free Distributions Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee or any person in the business of selling or otherwise distributing,
promoting, or advertising tobacco accessories, tobacco products, or smoking
herbs, or any employee or agent of any such licensee or person, in the course
of such licensee's or person's business, to distribute, give away or deliver
tobacco accessories, tobacco products, or smoking herbs free of charge to any
person on any right of way, park, playground or other property owned by the
village, school district, park district, or any public library.
   E.   Signs:
      1.   Any person operating a place of business where tobacco accessories,
tobacco products, smoking herbs, nicotine delivery system components, or
electronic smoking devices are sold or offered for sale shall post in a
conspicuous place at or near every tobacco display and on or upon every vending
machine which offers tobacco accessories, tobacco products, smoking herbs,
nicotine delivery systems, or electronic smoking devices for sale a sign upon
which there shall be imprinted the following statement:
SALE OF TOBACCO ACCESSORIES, SMOKING HERBS, NICOTINE DELIVERY SYSTEMS, OR
ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICES TO PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE OR THE
MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE TO PROCURE SUCH A SALE IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.
      2.   The sign shall be printed on a white card with red capitalized
letters at least one-half inch (1/2") in height. (Ord. 2014-O-30, 10-22-2014)
CHAPTER 13
ABANDONED, INOPERABLE, AND UNREGISTERED VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-13-1: Definitions
4-13-2: Declaration Of Nuisance
4-13-3: Exemptions
4-13-4: Storage Of Unregistered Vehicles Prohibited
4-13-5: Covering Or Storing Vehicles
4-13-6: Duty To Dispose Of Abandoned, Inoperable Or Unregistered Vehicles
4-13-7: Notice
4-13-8: Hearing Regarding Vehicle Located Upon Private Property
4-13-9: Towing
4-13-10: Record Of Vehicles Towed
4-13-11: Cumulative Remedies
4-13-12: Separability Of Provisions
4-13-13: Penalty
4-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
ABANDONED VEHICLE:    Any vehicle that has not been moved for seven (7)
                      consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
ANTIQUE VEHICLE:      Any vehicle twenty-five (25) years of age or older.
HIGHWAY:              Any street, alley or public way within the Village.
                      Any vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven
                      (7) days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been
                      removed, or on which the engine, wheels or other parts
INOPERABLE VEHICLE:   have been altered, damaged, not maintained or otherwise
                      so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven
                      under its own motor power, or, if not equipped with an
                      engine when manufactured, incapable of being moved.
PERSON:               Any natural person, firm, partnership, association,
                      corporation or other legal entity.
                      Any real property within the Village which is privately
PRIVATE PROPERTY:     owned and which is not public property as defined in this
                      section.
                      Any street or highway which shall include the entire
PUBLIC PROPERTY:      width between the boundary lines publicly maintained for
                      the purposes of vehicular travel, and any other property
                      or facility owned by a public entity.
                      Every vehicle without motive power in operation designed
                      for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
TRAILER:              motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its
                      weight rests upon the towing vehicle. However, a trailer
                      commonly referred to as a "fifth wheel" trailer is
                      considered a trailer by this definition.
                      A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide
TRAVEL TRAILER:       living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use,
                      and of a size or weight not requiring an over dimension
                      permit when towed on a highway or Village street.
UNLICENSED VEHICLE:   Any vehicle which does not display a current and valid
                      license plate currently registered to the vehicle.
                      Any vehicle which is not properly and currently
UNREGISTERED VEHICLE: registered with the office of the Illinois Secretary of
                      State.
                      Every device, in, upon, or by which any person or
                      property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway
                      or Village street or requiring a certificate of title
VEHICLE:              under the statutes of the state of Illinois (625 ILCS 5/
                      3-101) except devices moved by human power, devices used
                      exclusively upon stationary rails and snowmobiles as
                      defined in the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act
                      (625 ILCS 40/1-1 et seq.).
                      A person who holds legal title to a vehicle or, in the
                      event a vehicle is the subject of an agreement for
                      conditional sale or lease thereof with the right of
                      purchase upon the performance of the conditions stated in
VEHICLE OWNER:        the agreement and with the immediate right of possession
                      vested in the conditional vendee or lessee or in the
                      event a mortgagor of such vehicle is entitled to
                      possession, then such conditional vendee, lessee or
                      mortgagor shall be deemed the owner for the purposes of
                      this chapter. (Ord. 2020-O-09, 9-23-2020)
 
4-13-2: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
The Corporate Authority finds and declares that abandoned vehicles, inoperable
vehicles and unregistered vehicles, whether located upon private property or
upon public property, constitute a public nuisance detrimental to the health,
safety and welfare of the general public, by harboring disease, providing
breeding places for vermin, inviting plundering, creating fire hazards and
presenting physical dangers to children and others, and by creating scenic
blights which degrade the environment and adversely affect land values and the
proper maintenance and continuing development of the Village. (Ord. 2020-O-09,
9-23-2020)
4-13-3: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to the following:
   A.   A vehicle which is kept within a fully enclosed building when not in
use;
   B.   An operable antique vehicle properly and currently registered with the
office of the Illinois Secretary of State;
   C.   A vehicle on the premises of a place of business lawfully engaged in
the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles, or on the premises of a place of
business lawfully engaged in the sale of new or used automobiles permitting
outdoor storage of vehicle inventory, provided, however, that the latter
business does not store or display inoperable vehicles;
   D.   A vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven
under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or repair
operations for a period of not more than seven days from the date the vehicle
became inoperable. (Ord. 2020-O-09, 9-23-2020)
4-13-4: STORAGE OF UNREGISTERED VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No person shall accumulate, store or allow any unregistered or unlicensed
vehicle to be located upon any public property or private property within the
Village for a period exceeding seven days. (Ord. 2020-O-09, 9-23-2020)
4-13-5: COVERING OR STORING VEHICLES:
Covering, tarping, or storing an abandoned, inoperable or unregistered vehicle
in an unenclosed building or structure will not be considered to resolve an
abandoned, inoperable or unregistered vehicle as a public nuisance. Any
abandoned, inoperable or unregistered vehicle belonging to an individual who is
in the process of selling the vehicle, will have thirty (30) days from the date
of receiving a notice from the Village as described in this chapter to complete
the sale thereof before the Village may proceed with any or all of the remedies
set forth in Section
4-13-8 or
4-13-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 2020-O-09, 9-23-2020)
4-13-6: DUTY TO DISPOSE OF ABANDONED, INOPERABLE OR UNREGISTERED VEHICLES:
Any person, not exempted under Section
4-13-3, shall dispose of any abandoned, inoperable or unregistered vehicle
owned by him or her, and, if the vehicle is located upon private property, the
owner or person occupying the private property shall dispose of the abandoned,
inoperable or unregistered vehicle as set forth in this chapter, upon written
notice received from the village commanding the disposition thereof. (Ord.
2020-O-09, 9-23-2020)
4-13-7: NOTICE:
   A.   If the abandoned, inoperable or unregistered vehicle displays
registration plates or decals from which the last known vehicle owner may be
determined in a reasonably expeditious manner, notice as set forth in this
chapter shall be sent to the last registered vehicle owner, and, if the vehicle
is located upon private property, to the owner or occupant of the private
property upon which the vehicle is located.
   B.   All notices provided by this section shall be sent by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid. Notice to one
vehicle owner will be considered notice to all vehicle owners and notice to one
owner or occupant of private property will be considered notice to all owners
and/or occupants of private property upon which the vehicle is located. Refusal
to accept delivery of the notice shall be deemed acceptance for purposes of
this section. The date of notice for purposes of this section shall be the day
after the date such notice was deposited with the United States postal service,
first class postage prepaid. Notice may be personally served by a Village
police authority or the Village Code Enforcement Officer, or, if the vehicle is
located upon private property, upon an owner or an occupant of the private
property above the age of fourteen (14) years, in which case the date of notice
shall be the date of personal service.
   C.   If the vehicle is located upon public property and does not constitute
an immediate hazard, danger or threat to health or safety, the notice will be
substantially in the form set forth in this subsection:
   NOTICE TO REMOVE VEHICLE FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY
   TO: Name:                                                Date:
                             
   Address:
                                                                                          
   A Vehicle described as:
   Make:                           ___________   
   Year:                          
   Color:                          
   with registration plates number                    (the Vehicle) is
registered in the name(s) of                           with the State of
                 . The Vehicle is located at                       outside of
an enclosed building and is deemed to be an Abandoned, Inoperable or
Unregistered Vehicle under Section
4-13-1, et. seq. of the Village of Green Oaks Village Code (the Ordinance). You
are hereby notified that the Vehicle must be removed, disposed of or placed in
an enclosed building within seven (7) days of the day after the date this
Notice was deposited with the United States Postal Service. If you fail to
remove, dispose of, or place the Vehicle in an enclosed building within the
specified period, or within any written extension granted by the Village
Administrator, the Village may cause the towing or removal of the Vehicle
without further notice to you, and you may be charged with a violation of the
Ordinance and may be subject to penalties pursuant to the Village of Green Oaks
Municipal Village Code. In addition, the costs of towing and storage, including
court costs and reasonable attorney's fees may be assessed against you.
   D.    If the vehicle is located upon private property, the notice shall be
substantially in the form set forth in this subsection:
   NOTICE TO REMOVE VEHICLE FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY
   TO: Name:                                                Date:
                             
   Address:
                                                                                          
   A Vehicle described as:
   Make:                           ___________   
   Year:                          
   Color:                          
   with registration plates number                                 (the
Vehicle) is registered in the name(s) of                           with the
State of               . The Vehicle is located at                        
outside of an enclosed building and is deemed to be an Abandoned, Inoperable or
Unregistered Vehicle under Section
4-13-1, et. seq. of the Village of Green Oaks Village Code (the Ordinance). You
are hereby notified that the Vehicle must be removed, disposed of or placed in
an enclosed building within seven (7) days of the day after the date this
Notice was deposited with the United States Postal Service. You may request a
hearing on the matter of whether the above described vehicle is an Abandoned,
Inoperable or Unregistered Vehicle in violation of Section
4-13-1 et. seq. of the Ordinance by submitting a written request for such a
hearing to the Village Administrator addressed as set forth below, within ten
(10) days of the day after the date this Notice was deposited with the United
States Postal Service. If you submit such a request for a hearing, a hearing
date will be set and you will be advised of the time, date and place of such
hearing at least three (3) days in advance of the date of such hearing. The
Village Administrator shall, upon good cause being shown, grant an extension of
the hearing of not more than thirty (30) days if you submit to the Village
Administrator an affidavit that the Vehicle is being held for sale or for
expeditious repair as defined by Section
4-13-9(B) of the Ordinance. To request a hearing, you must hand deliver or mail
by certified mail, return receipt requested, a request for such a hearing in
writing to the Village Administrator c/o, Village of Green Oaks, 2020 O'Plaine
Road Green Oaks, IL. 60048. If you fail to request a hearing within seven (7)
days of the day after the date this Notice was deposited with the United States
Postal Service, and you do not remove, dispose of, or place the Vehicle in an
enclosed building within the specified period, or within any extension granted
by the Village Administrator after a hearing, the Village may seek a judicial
warrant to search and to seize the Vehicle and to cause the towing or removal
of the Vehicle without further notice to you, and you may be charged with a
violation of the Ordinance and may be subject to penalties pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of the Village of Green Oaks Municipal Village Code. In addition, the
costs of towing and storage, including court costs and reasonable attorney's
fees may be assessed against you. (Ord. 2020-O-09, 9-23-2020)
4-13-8: HEARING REGARDING VEHICLE LOCATED UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   The person or persons to whom the notice as specified in Section
4-13-7(D) is directed, shall have the right to a hearing before the Village
Administrator or his/her designee on the matter of whether the vehicle cited in
such notice is an abandoned, inoperable or unregistered vehicle in violation of
this chapter. To obtain such a hearing, a written request for such a hearing
must be submitted by hand delivery or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, addressed to the Village Administrator c/o, Village of Green Oaks,
2020 O'Plaine Road Green Oaks, IL. 60048, within seven days of the day after
the date this notice was deposited with the United States postal service. In
the event that a hearing is so requested, the Village Administrator shall, as
soon as reasonably practicable, set a time, date and place for the hearing
before the Village Administrator, or his/her designee, and shall cause the
person or persons so requesting the hearing to be provided with written notice
of the time, date and place of the hearing at least three days in advance of
the date of the hearing. Enforcement of this chapter shall be stayed pending
the hearing and determination by the Village Administrator.
   B.   The owner of the vehicle or, the owner or occupant of the private
property upon which the vehicle is located, may apply for an extension of time
of the hearing by submitting to the Village Administrator an affidavit that the
vehicle is being held for sale or expeditious repair. Upon receipt of any such
application for an extension of time, the Village Administrator shall, upon
good cause being shown, grant an extension of the hearing of not more than
thirty (30) days. As used in this section, "expeditious repair" means:
      1.   That the necessary parts for repair have been ordered but are not
available for installation in the vehicle for reasons not within the control of
the owner of the vehicle;
      2.   That the vehicle is scheduled to be repaired by a person whose
regular course of business includes the repair of vehicles and the scheduled
repair date is within thirty (30) days; or
      3.   That the vehicle is in such condition of being inoperable as a
result of a vehicular accident, and the owner of the vehicle or any third party
to whom, or from whom, a claim for the damages sustained in such accident is
anticipated, is investigating or preparing a claim for such damages. (Ord.
2020-O-09, 9-23-2020)
4-13-9: TOWING:
   A.   Public Property. In the event the notice provided for in Section
4-13-7(C) is not complied with, the Village, may cause the towing or removal of
the abandoned, inoperable or unregistered vehicle from public property without
further notice to the vehicle owner.
   B.   Private Property. In the event the notice provided for in Section
4-13-7(D) is not complied with, the Village, except as provided in subsection
(B)(1) of this section, may seek a judicial warrant to search and to seize the
abandoned, inoperable or unregistered vehicle and to cause the towing or
removal thereof from private property.
      1.   In the event a request for a hearing before the Village
Administrator is made as set forth in Section
4-13-8, and the Village Administrator, or his/her designee, determines the
vehicle is an abandoned, inoperable or unregistered vehicle, the Village
Administrator shall set a reasonable date by which the vehicle shall be
disposed of or enclosed within a building. The date shall be no less than seven
days after the date of the hearing. In the event the vehicle is not disposed of
or enclosed within a building by the date set by the Village Administrator, the
Village may seek a judicial warrant to search and to seize the abandoned,
inoperable or unregistered vehicle and to cause the towing or removal of the
vehicle from private property without further notice to the vehicle owner or to
the owner or occupant of the private property.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the vehicle owner or, the owner of
the private property upon which the vehicle is located, if applicable, to
deliver a written notice to the Village Administrator, and to provide
documentation and/or demonstration of operability of the vehicle, and that the
vehicle has been properly registered, if the vehicle has been put into operable
condition and/or registered with the Secretary of State of the State of
Illinois following issuance of the notice described in Section
4-13-7 hereof. In the event no such written notice and evidence of compliance
herewith is received by the Village Administrator, it shall be presumed that
the vehicle remains abandoned, inoperable or unregistered and the Village may
immediately cause the towing or removal of the vehicle from public property,
or, if located upon private property, seek a judicial warrant to search and to
seize the vehicle and to cause the towing or removal of the vehicle from
private property without further notice to the vehicle owner or to the owner or
occupant of the private property.
   D.   Whenever a vehicle is towed or removed by a towing service pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter, the owner of the vehicle and the owner or
occupant of the property upon which the abandoned, inoperable or unregistered
vehicle is located, if applicable, shall be jointly and severally responsible
for all towing and storage charges.
   E.   Within forty-eight (48) hours of the removal of the vehicle, the
Village will send notice to the vehicle owner and any lien holder, if known,
and to the owner or occupant of the private property from which the vehicle was
removed, if applicable, that the vehicle has been impounded and stored for
violation of this chapter. The notice shall give the location of the vehicle
and the costs, if any, incurred by the Village for removal.
   F.   Any vehicle towed or removed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
will be stored and claimed or disposed of in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code, as amended, entitled "Abandoned, Lost,
Stolen or Unclaimed Vehicles," 625 ILCS 5/4-200 et. seq. which is incorporated
in this chapter by reference. (Ord. 2020-O-09, 9-23-2020)
4-13-10: RECORD OF VEHICLES TOWED:
When a vehicle is authorized to be towed, the Village shall keep and maintain a
record of the vehicle listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's
name, manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number and
license plate year and number, if any, displayed on the vehicle. The record
shall also include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location
towed to, reason for towing and the name of the Village official authorizing
the tow. (Ord. 2020-O-09, 9-23-2020)
4-13-11: CUMULATIVE REMEDIES:
Each of the provisions and remedies of this chapter shall be in addition to any
other provisions and remedies provided by this code or the Illinois Compiled
Statutes. (Ord. 2020-O-09, 9-23-2020)
4-13-12: SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
Each section, paragraph, sentence, clause and provision of this chapter is
separable and if any provision is held unconstitutional or invalid for any
reason, such decision shall not affect the remainder of this chapter nor any
part of this chapter, other than that part affected by such decision. (Ord.
2020-O-09, 9-23-2020)
4-13-13: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter will be subject to
penalties pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this code. If the Village incurs expense, including towing or
reasonable attorneys' fees, in enforcing this chapter, the vehicle owner and
the owner or occupant of private property notified as set forth in Section
4-13-7 will be jointly and severally responsible for the expense. (Ord. 2020-O-
09, 9-23-2020)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
SPEED LIMITS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Maximum Speed Limits Established
5-1-2: Posting
5-1-3: Penalty
5-1-1: MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established on the following described streets within the
village, the following maximum speed limitation:
Street Miles Per Hour
Street                                              Miles Per Hour
Atkinson Road, east and westbound                   25
Benson Lane, north and southbound                   25
Bradley Road from Rockland Road (Route 176)         30
to the Elgin Joliet & Eastern Railroad tracks
Cranbrook Road, east and westbound                  25
Crest Road, north and southbound                    25
Glenmore Road, north and southbound                 25
Guerin Road, east and westbound                     30
Hanlon Road, north and southbound                   30
Harwood Drive, east and westbound                   25
Haven Lane, east and westbound                      25
Hawthorne Road, north and southbound                25
Heathercliff Drive, north and southbound            25
Irondale Road, north and southbound                 25
Kenton Lane, east and westbound                     25
Knoll Road, north and southbound                    25
Lockwood Drive, north and southbound                25
Margate Lane, east and westbound                    25
Minard Lane, east and westbound                     25
O'Plaine Road, north and southbound between         25
Buckley Road (Route 137) and Cranbrook Road
O'Plaine Road, north and southbound between         20
Cranbrook Road and dead end
Old Rockland Road from St. Mary's Road to the       25
eastern end of the road
Parkhill Lane, north and southbound                 25
Pearson Road, east and westbound                    25
Placid Lane, east and westbound                     25
Rockland Road (State Route 176), to remain as
posted by state; St. Mary's Road (County Route 41),  
to remain as posted by county
Shannondale Drive, north and southbound             25
Woodview Drive, east and westbound                  25
 
(Ord. 62-O-03, 5-23-1962; amd. Ord. 89-O-05, 4-26-1989; Ord. 90-O-12, 9-26-
1990; Ord. 99-O-26, 12-29-1999; Ord. 2006-O-06, 6-28-2006)
5-1-2: POSTING:
The maximum speed limits as hereinbefore set forth shall be posted accordingly.
Showing said maximum speed limits, and said posting shall be in conformity with
the requirements of the Illinois Compiled Statutes 1 . (Ord. 62-O-03, 5-23-
1962)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-604.
5-1-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than fifteen dollars ($15.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 62-O-03, 5-23-1962; amd. Ord. 80-O-02, 3-26-
1980; Ord. 2001-O-05, 3-28-2001)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Hazardous Intersections Designated
5-2-2: Stop Intersections Designated
5-2-3: Violation, Penalty
5-2-1: HAZARDOUS INTERSECTIONS DESIGNATED:
The following areas within the village are hereby designated as hazardous
traffic locations within the village:
Intersections of:
   Atkinson and Crest
   Atkinson and St. Mary's
   Benson Lane and Atkinson
   Benson Road at Atkinson
   Bradley Road and Polo Trail
   Braemore Close and N. Reigate Lane
   Crescent Knoll and Park Hill
   Crest Road and Atkinson Road
   Dan Patch and Morgan Court
   Fox Run and Atkinson
   Glenmore Road and Kenton Road
   Greenbrier and St. Mary's
   Greenbrier Drive and Fox Run
   Greenbrier Drive and Sunrise Road
   Hanlon and Guerin
   Horace Court and State Route 137
   Irondale and Guerin
   Kenton Lane and Cranbrook Road
   King Drive and King Court
   Lexington and St. Mary's
   Lexington Road and Belmont Road
   Margate Lane and Crescent Knoll
   Margate Lane and St. Mary's
   Minard Lane and Park Hill
   Minard Lane and St. Mary's
   O'Plaine Road and Cranbrook Road
   O'Plaine Road and Haven Lane
   O'Plaine Road and Placid Lane
   O'Plaine Road and White Fence Lane
   O'Plaine Road at the Oak Grove School entrance, pedestrian crossing
   Pearson and St. Mary's
   Rockland and St. Mary's
   Saddle Hill Drive and Lexington
   Saddle Hill Road and Saratoga Court
   Saddle Hill Road and Steeplechase Court
   Shannondale and Guerin
   Shannondale and Hanlon
   Sunrise and Fox Run
   Towne Trail and Rein Court
   Towne Trail and Scotland Court
   White Fence Lane and Saddle Hill Road
   Woodfield Lane and St. Mary's
(Ord. 73-04, 1-24-1973; amd. Ord. 80-09, 8-28-1980; Ord. 83-05, 5-25-1983; Ord.
84-07, 4-25-1984; Ord. 86-01, 2-26-1986; Ord. 86-08, 9-24-1986; Ord. 86-10, 10-
22-1986; Ord. 87-14, 9-23-1987; Ord. 88-01, 2-24-1988; Ord. 88-04, 3-23-1988;
Ord. 88-12, 6-22-1988; Ord. 89-24, 9-27-1989; Ord. 90-02, 6-23-1990; Ord. 91-
03, 5-4-1991; Ord. 96-08, 4-24-1996; Ord. 99-10, 5-26-1999)
5-2-2: STOP INTERSECTIONS DESIGNATED:
To decrease the hazards generated at the foregoing intersections, traffic
signs, bearing the word "STOP" and in the form and style approved by the state
of Illinois department of transportation, shall be installed at the following
places:
Intersection Sign Installation
Intersection                            Sign Installation
Ashford and Oakhaven                    Northeast and southwest corners
Ashford and Scarborough                 Southeast and northwest corners
Atkinson and St. Mary's                 Northeast corner
Atkinson Road and Fox Run Road          Northeast and southwest corners
Benson Lane and Atkinson                All 4 corners
Benson Road and Atkinson                All 4 corners
Bradford Court and Brookhaven Drive     Southwest corner
Bradley Road and Polo Trail             Northeast corner
Braemore Close and N. Reigate Lane      Northeast corner
Brookhaven Drive and Bradford Court     Northwest corner
Brookhaven Drive and Edgewater Court    Southeast corner
Crescent Knoll and Park Hill            Northeast, northwest and southwest
                                        corners
Crest Road and Atkinson Road            Northwest corner
Dan Patch and Morgan Court              Northwest and southeast corners
East Oasis Frontage Road and Lucky Lake All 3 corners
Road
Edgewater Court and Brookhaven Drive    Northeast corner
Fox Run and Atkinson                    Southeast corner
Glenmore Road and Kenton Road           Southeast corner
Glenwood Court and Brookhaven Drive     Northeast corner
Greenbrier Drive and Fox Run            Southeast corner
Greenbrier Drive and Sunrise Road       Northwest corner
Hanlon and Guerin                       Northwest corner
Horace Court and State Route 137        Southeast corner
Irondale and Guerin                     Northwest corner
Kenton Lane and Cranbrook               Southeast corner
King Drive and King Court               Northeast, southeast and southwest
                                        corners
Lexington and St. Mary's                Northeast corner
Lexington Road and Belmont Road         Northeast, southeast and southwest
                                        corners
Margate Lane and Crescent Knoll         Northeast and southwest corners
Margate Lane and St. Mary's             Northeast and southwest corners
Minard Lane and Park Hill               Northeast, southeast and southwest
                                        corners
Minard Lane and St. Mary's              Northeast corner
Oakwood Court and Brookhaven Drive      Southwest corner
O'Plaine Road and Cranbrook Road        Northeast corner
O'Plaine Road and Haven Lane            All 4 corners
O'Plaine Road and Placid Lane           Northeast corner
O'Plaine Road and White Fence Lane      Northwest, southeast and southwest
                                        corners
O'Plaine Road at the Oak Grove School   Northeast and southwest corners
entrance, pedestrian crossing
Pearson and St. Mary's                  Northeast corner
Rockland and St. Mary's                 Northeast corner
Saddle Hill Drive and Lexington Road    Southwest corner
Saddle Hill Road and Lexington Road     Northeast, northwest and southwest
                                        corners
Saddle Hill Road and Saratoga Court     Northeast, northwest and southeast
                                        corners
Saddle Hill Road and Steeplechase Court Northeast, northwest and southeast
                                        corners
Shannondale and Guerin                  Northwest corner
Shannondale and Hanlon                  Northeast corner
Sunrise and Fox Run                     Northeast and southwest corners
Towne Trail and Rein Court              Northeast and southwest corners
Towne Trail and Scotland Court          Northeast and southwest corners
White Fence Lane and Saddle Hill Road   All 4 corners
Woodfield Lane and St. Mary's           Southwest corner
 
(Ord. 73-O-04, 1-24-1973; amd. Ord. 80-O-09, 8-28-1980; Ord. 81-O-14, 7-22-
1981; Ord. 83-O-05, 5-25-1983; Ord. 84-O-07, 4-25-1984; Ord. 86-O-01, 2-26-
1986; Ord. 86-O-08, 9-24-1986; Ord. 86-O-10, 10-22-1986; Ord. 87-O-14, 9-23-
1987; Ord. 88-O-01, 2-24-1988; Ord. 88-O-04, 3-23-1988; Ord. 88-O-12, 6-22-
1988; Ord. 89-O-24, 9-27-1989; Ord. 90-O-02, 6-23-1990; Ord. 91-O-03, 5-4-1991;
Ord. 96-O-08, 4-24-1996; Ord. 99-O-10, 5-26-1999; Ord. 2001-O-14, 7-25-2001;
Ord. 2001-O-16, 8-22-2001; Ord. 2006-O-07, 7-26-2006; Ord. 2016-O-02, 2-24-
2016)
5-2-3: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate, disobey or refuse to comply
with any "STOP" sign or other traffic control sign provided for herein in the
operation of any motor vehicle at the intersections or areas designated, and
any person, upon conviction, shall be fined not to exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 89-O-24, 9-27-1989; amd. Ord. 2001-O-
05, 3-28-2001)
CHAPTER 3
VEHICLE WEIGHT AND LOAD LIMITS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Excessive Weight and Load Prohibited
5-3-2: Weight Limits Established
5-3-3: Action by Officials
5-3-4: Failure of Driver to Stop or Weigh
5-3-5: Special Permit
5-3-6: Exceptions to Regulations
5-3-7: Violation, Penalty
5-3-1: EXCESSIVE WEIGHT AND LOAD PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to cause or
knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any street or road any vehicle with
lugs or a weight exceeding the limitations stated in this Chapter or otherwise
in violation of this Chapter. The maximum weight of vehicles herein specified
shall be lawful throughout this Village. (Ord. 61-04, 9-27-61)
5-3-2: WEIGHT LIMITS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   No vehicle or combination of vehicles equipped with pneumatic tires
shall be operated, unladen or with load, upon the streets or roads of this
Village when the gross weight on the road surface through any axle thereof
exceeds twelve thousand (12,000) pounds. (Ord. 61-04, 9-27-61)
   B.   The gross weight of vehicles and combinations of vehicles, including
the weight of the vehicle or combination and its maximum load, shall be subject
to the foregoing limitations and further shall not exceed the following maximum
weights:
 
Two (2) axle motor vehicles                                 22,000 pounds
Three (3) axle vehicles                                     30,000 pounds
More than three (3) axle vehicles, including trucks, trailers,  
semi-trailers or combinations thereof                          36,000 pounds
 
(Ord. 90-13, 9-26-90)
   C.   During each year from February 15 to May 1, no vehicle shall be
operated on any Village streets when the gross weight on the road surface
through any axle thereof exceeds eight thousand (8,000) pounds or vehicle gross
weight exceeds sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds. (Ord. 80-04, 3-26-80)
5-3-3: ACTION BY OFFICIALS:
   A.   Any official having reason to believe that the weight of a vehicle and
load is unlawful shall require the driver to stop and submit to a weighing of
the same either by means of a portable or stationary scales. If such scales are
not available at the place where such vehicle is stopped, the official shall
require that such vehicle be driven to the nearest public scales.
   B.   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load as above
provided, determines that the weight is unlawful, such official shall require
the driver to stop the vehicle in a suitable place and remain standing until
such portion of the load is removed as may be necessary to reduce the gross
weight of such vehicle to such limit as permitted under this Chapter and shall
forthwith arrest the driver. All material so unloaded shall be cared for by the
owner or operator of such vehicle at the risk of such owner or operator. (Ord.
61-04, 9-27-61)
5-3-4: FAILURE OF DRIVER TO STOP OR WEIGH:
Any driver of a vehicle who fails or refuses to stop and submit the vehicle and
load to a weighing, or who fails or refuses when directed by an official upon
weighing of the vehicle to stop the vehicle and otherwise comply with the
provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 61-04, 9-27-
61)
5-3-5: SPECIAL PERMIT:
   A.   Issuance: The Board of Trustees may, in its discretion, upon
application in writing and good cause being shown therefor, issue a special
permit, in writing, authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles of a weight or load exceeding the maximum specified in
this Chapter or otherwise not in conformity with the provisions of this Chapter
upon any road or street under the jurisdiction of the party granting such
permit and for the maintenance of which said party is responsible. Where a
permit is sought for excess weight the applicant shall show that the load to be
moved by such vehicle or combination of vehicles cannot reasonably be
dismantled or disassembled.
   B.   Application: The application for any such permit shall specifically
describe the vehicle or vehicles and load to be operated or moved and whether
such permit is requested for a single trip or for limited continuous operation.
The application shall state, also, the points of origin and destination of
overweight vehicles or loads when specifically requested by the Village Board.
(Ord. 61-04, 9-27-61)
   C.   Continuous Overload Operation; Bond: The Board of Trustees may
delegate, by resolution, to an officer of the Village, the authority to issue
special permits for continuous overload operation during specified periods for
school buses, garbage trucks and residential construction traffic. The officer
may be empowered to require bonds to be furnished assuring the repair of or
payment for damage to roads traversed by such overloaded vehicles as a
condition for issuance of such permits. (Ord. 80-04, 3-26-80)
   D.   Permit, Each Vehicle: Special permits for continuous overload operation
shall be in the form of a permit registration issued under the authority of the
delegated officer. There shall be a permit issued for each individual vehicle
to be operated under such special permit. The owner or operator of the vehicle
shall make application for such permit on forms furnished by the Village, and
register the vehicle annually before the beginning of the calendar year. The
owner shall pay an annual registration fee, in the amount which may be
established, from time to time, by resolution of the Board of Trustees, before
receiving such permit. If the delegated officer determines that a bond is
required, as provided above, the bond shall be submitted an approved before the
permit is issued. The permit registration shall be evidenced by issuance of a
document which shall be displayed on the vehicle at all times when the vehicle
is operating upon the Village streets.
   E.   When Required: Special permits for continuous overload operation shall
be required if the vehicle is over the weight limits set forth in subsection
5-3-2C of this Chapter relating to weight limits between February 15 and May 1.
(Ord. 92-06, 3-25-92)
5-3-6: EXCEPTIONS TO REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter governing weight and load shall not apply to
fire apparatus, equipment designed for snow and ice removal operations on
streets and roads by or for the Village, to implements of husbandry temporarily
moved upon a street or road, or to a vehicle operated under the terms of a
special permit issued as herein provided. (Ord. 61-04, 9-27-61)
5-3-7: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of this Chapter
relating to vehicle weight limits, the owner or driver, or both, of such
vehicle shall be deemed guilty of such violation, and either the owner or the
driver of such vehicle may be prosecuted for such violation. Any person
convicted of any violation of Section
5-3-2 of this Chapter, including but not limited to a maximum axle or gross
weight limit specified upon any regulatory sign posted under the provisions of
this Chapter, shall be fined according to the following schedule:
Up to and including: 2,000 pounds       $ 50.00
overweight   
From 2,001 through 2,500 pounds         the fine is $135.00
overweight   
From 2,501 through 3,000 pounds         the fine is $165.00
overweight   
From 3,001 through 3,500 pounds         the fine is $260.00
overweight   
From 3,501 through 4,000 pounds         the fine is $300.00
overweight   
From 4,001 through 4,500 pounds         the fine is $425.00
overweight   
From 4,501 through 5,000 pounds         the fine is $475.00
overweight   
                                        the fine shall be computed by assessing
                                        $750.00 for the first 5,000 pounds
From 5,001 or more pounds overweight  overweight and $75.00 for each
                                        additional increment of 500 pounds or
                                        fraction thereof.
 
(Ord. 90-13, 9-26-90)
CHAPTER 4
VEHICLE LICENSES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Application For License, Issuance
5-4-3: License Fees
5-4-4: Time Of Payment, License Year
5-4-5: Transfer Of License
5-4-6: Plates Or Stickers Issued
5-4-7: Use Of Funds
5-4-8: Penalties
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
ANTIQUE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle which properly displays lawfully
issued and currently registered antique motor vehicle license plates from the
state of Illinois.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle which conveys loads other than passengers
not for hire, as defined in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-41-1.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self-propelled by any means other than
muscular power, including, but not limited to, passenger automobiles, trucks,
vans, motorcycles and motor bicycles.
OWNER: Any person, real or corporate, who owns any motor vehicle or trailer.
TRAILER: Any vehicle which is designed to be propelled by attachment to a motor
vehicle is not a motor vehicle under this chapter except when used with a
commercial vehicle. (Ord. 2008-O-9, 8-20-2008)
5-4-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE, ISSUANCE:
Every owner or operator of a motor vehicle or motor bicycle required under this
chapter to have a license for such vehicle shall file an application with the
administrator, setting forth the name and address of the applicant and a
description of the vehicle for which the license is desired. Upon payment of
the fee herein provided, the administrator shall issue or cause to be issued a
license which shall be attested by him, authorizing the use of such vehicle
within the village until the expiration of the license. (Ord. 2011-O-11, 9-28-
2011)
5-4-3: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   The owner of every motor vehicle and motor bicycle, including
commercial vehicles, who resides within the village shall pay a license fee to
the village administrator for the use of such motor vehicle or motor bicycle.
   B.   Except as provided in subsection C of this section, the annual fees to
be paid for vehicle licenses shall be as follows:
 
Passenger vehicles                                                              $40.00
Antique motor vehicle                                                           10.00
Commercial vehicles in the following weight classes:                            
   Under 3,000 pounds' gross weight including weight of vehicle and maximum  55.00
load
   Over 3,000 pounds' gross weight but not more than 8,000 pounds' gross     65.00
weight, including weight of vehicle and maximum load
   Over 8,000 pounds' gross weight including vehicle and maximum load        80.00
 
Trailers and tractors or similar vehicles designed for hauling purposes shall
pay license fees according to their gross weight as hereinabove set forth.
(Ord. 2011-O-02, 5-25-2011)
   C.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection B of this section, any
person over sixty four (64) years of age, and upon proper application for a
vehicle license, shall be entitled to issuance of one passenger vehicle license
for a vehicle registered to that person free of charge; any vehicle with a
disability license plate issued under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-616
shall be entitled to the issuance of one passenger vehicle license for that
vehicle for a fee of ten dollars ($10.00); any person who is a full time
college student, upon presentation of a valid student ID from a college or
university, shall be entitled to issuance of one passenger vehicle license for
a vehicle for a fee of twenty dollars ($20.00); and any not for profit
corporation with a tax exempt status granted by the internal revenue service
shall be entitled to issuance of a license according to the following fee
schedule:
   NOT FOR PROFIT VEHICLE FEE SCHEDULE
 
Passenger vehicles                                                      $10.00
Commercial vehicles in the following weight classes:                     
 Under 3,000 pounds' gross weight including weight of vehicle and      10.00
  maximum load
 Over 3,000 pounds' gross weight but not more than 8,000 pounds' gross 20.00
  weight, including weight of vehicle and maximum load
 Over 8,000 pounds' gross weight including vehicle and maximum load    40.00
 
Trailers and tractors or similar vehicles designed for hauling purposes shall
pay license fees according to their gross weight as hereinabove set forth.
   D.   If not paid by July 1 of the licensing year, the license fees required
by this section shall be as set forth in the following schedule:
 If Paid By July 1 Of Each If Paid After July 1 But
 Year                      On Or Before December 31 If Paid After December 31
                           Of Each Year
                                                                                         If Paid
                                                                                         After July
                                                                             If Paid By  1 But On Or If Paid
                                                                             July 1 Of   Before      After
                                                                             Each Year   December 31 December 31
                                                                                         Of Each
                                                                                         Year
Passenger vehicle                                                            $ 40.00     $ 55.00     $ 74.25
Passenger vehicle owned by a not for profit corporation with a tax exempt    10.00       35.00       47.25
status
Antique motor vehicle                                                        10.00       20.00       27.00
Seniors                                                                      10.00       15.00       20.25
Vehicles with disability license plate/disabled veteran with VA disability   10.00       15.00       20.25
certification
Motorcycles                                                                  20.00       30.00       40.50
College student (with proof of student ID)                                   20.00       30.00       40.50
Commercial vehicles1:                                                                               
    Under 3,000 pounds                                                   55.00       80.00       108.00
    Owned by a not for profit corporation with a tax exempt status under 10.00       25.00       33.75
3,000 pounds
    Over 3,000 pounds but under 8,000 pounds                             65.00       90.00       121.50
    Owned by a not for profit corporation with a tax exempt status over  20.00       45.00       60.75
3,000 pounds but under 8,000 pounds
    Over 8,000 pounds                                                    80.00       105.00      141.75
    Owned by a not for profit corporation with a tax exempt status over  40.00       85.00       114.75
8,000 pounds
                                                                             Refer to    Refer to    Refer to
                                                                             appropriate appropriate appropriate
Trailers and tractors or similar vehicles designed for hauling purposes      weight      weight      weight
                                                                             category    category    category
                                                                             above       above       above
 
   Note:
       1.    All categories include weight of vehicle and maximum load.
   E.   A person moving into the village shall have thirty (30) days from the
time of occupancy to obtain the required vehicle license. For such thirty (30)
day period, the fees as provided in subsection B of this section shall apply.
Commencing with the thirty first day after occupancy, the fees provided in
subsection D of this section shall apply.
   F.   At any time on or after July 1 of each license year the village may
take any or all lawful action necessary to collect the license fee due under
this section including, but not limited to, placing the delinquent fee account
for collection with a debt collection company. (Ord. 2008-O-9, 8-20-2008; amd.
Ord. 2012-O-05, 5-23-2012; Ord. 2013-O-03, 2-27-2013; Ord. 2016-O-04, 4-27-
2016; Ord. 2025-O-07, 5-28-2025)
5-4-4: TIME OF PAYMENT, LICENSE YEAR:
Such license fees shall be due and payable annually in advance on July 1 of
each year and the license shall be for one year; provided, that if purchase of
a vehicle is made six (6) months after the start of the license year, then,
upon application being made to the administrator, a license shall be issued for
the remainder of the year upon payment of one-half (1/2) of the fee herein
required. (Ord. 84-06, 4-25-1984)
5-4-5: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A village vehicle license may be transferred to another vehicle of the same
license classification, owned by the person to whom such license was issued,
without any extra charge being made; but the applicant must file an application
for such transfer and such application must include the make and type of such
vehicle. (Ord. 84-05, 3-28-1984)
5-4-6: PLATES OR STICKERS ISSUED:
Each applicant, upon payment of the fee, shall be given a license plate or
windshield sticker, without charge, of such design and material as may be
approved by the village board of trustees. Such plate or sticker shall be
fastened in a prominent and visible place on the front of the vehicle at all
times that such vehicle is operated in the village. (Ord. 84-05, 3-28-1984)
5-4-7: USE OF FUNDS:
All revenue derived from such license fees, except for the cost of issuing the
licenses and plates and collecting the fees, shall be kept as a separate fund
and used only for paying the cost of street repairs and improvements, as is
provided by statute. (Ord. 84-05, 3-28-1984)
5-4-8: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter relating to motor
vehicles shall be fined not less than two dollars ($2.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be
held to have been committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs
or continues. (Ord. 84-05, 3-28-1984; amd. Ord. 2001-O-05, 3-28-2001)
CHAPTER 5
THROUGH TRAFFIC
SECTION:
5-5-1: Main Or Collector Streets Designated
5-5-2: Regulations For Use Of Local Streets
5-5-3: Regulations For One-Way Streets
5-5-4: Regulations For Limited Turns
5-5-5: Regulations For U-Turns
5-5-6: Posting And Penalties
5-5-1: MAIN OR COLLECTOR STREETS DESIGNATED:
The following streets in the village are hereby designated as main or collector
streets for the purpose of use by both through traffic and local traffic:
      Atkinson Road
      Bradley Road
      Buckley Road (State Route 134)
      Guerin Road
      Illinois Tri-State Tollway
      O'Plaine Road
      Rockland Road (State Route 176)
      St. Mary's Road
(Ord. 95-31, 9-27-1995)
5-5-2: REGULATIONS FOR USE OF LOCAL STREETS:
The following regulations shall apply to all streets, public and private, other
than the main or collector streets herein designated:
   A.   Local Traffic Defined: For purposes of this chapter, "local traffic" is
defined as being traffic which either originates or has a destination within
the local area or neighborhood served by the local streets being used, and all
other traffic is defined as "through traffic". A "destination" is defined as
being a specific place within such local area to or from which a person is
traveling for personal or business purposes, and not as a means of travel
through such local area from one other local area to another local area.
   B.   Through Traffic Prohibited On Local Streets: No person shall use local
streets for through traffic purposes. All traffic shall use main or collector
streets for through traffic purposes except in emergencies, or when such main
or collector streets are not passable.
   C.   Notice Of Local Traffic Only Prohibition: The village board of trustees
shall, by resolution passed at a regular or special meeting, designate specific
local streets upon which notice shall be posted indicating that only local
traffic is permitted. (Ord. 95-31, 9-27-1995)
5-5-3: REGULATIONS FOR ONE-WAY STREETS:
Whenever a street is designated for one-way traffic for part or all of a day,
the use of such street shall be restricted to traffic moving in the direction
designated.
   A.   Whenever a street is designated for one-way traffic, the village shall
erect adequate signage indicating the limitation on the movement of traffic and
the time or times when the limitation applies if it is for periods less than
twenty four (24) hours per day. The village may also erect barriers or traffic
guides to indicate the one-way regulation.
   B.   No person shall travel upon one-way streets in a direction other than
that designated by traffic signage and directions.
   C.   Streets shall be designated as one-way streets by resolution of the
village board of trustees passed at a regular or special meeting. (Ord. 95-31,
9-27-1995)
5-5-4: REGULATIONS FOR LIMITED TURNS:
Whenever a street intersection is designated for limited turns for part or all
of a day, turns shall be limited in the manner designated.
   A.   Whenever a street intersection is designated for limited turns, the
village shall erect signage indicating the limitation on the movement of
traffic and the time or times when the limitation applies if it is for periods
less than twenty four (24) hours per day. The village may also erect barriers
or traffic guides to indicate the limited turn regulation.
   B.   No person shall enter or turn into a street in violation of the
limitation on turns designated herein and indicated by traffic signage and
directions.
   C.   Streets shall be designated for limited turns by resolution of the
village board of trustees passed at a regular or special meeting. (Ord. 95-31,
9-27-1995)
5-5-5: REGULATIONS FOR U-TURNS:
Whenever a street is designated for no U-turns, U-turns shall be prohibited in
the manner designated.
   A.   Whenever a street is designated for no U-turns, the village shall erect
signage indicating the limitation on the movement of traffic and the time or
times when the limitation applies if it is for periods less than twenty four
(24) hours per day. The village may also erect barriers or traffic guides to
indicate the no U-turn regulation.
   B.   No person operating a vehicle shall turn such vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction in violation of the limitation on turns designated
herein and indicated by traffic signage and directions.
   C.   Streets shall be designated for no U-turns by resolution of the village
board of trustees passed at a regular or special meeting. (Ord. 2000-O-02, 3-
22-2000)
5-5-6: POSTING AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Posting: The regulations herein shall be in effect upon the erection of
traffic signs indicating the limitation on through traffic, one-way traffic, or
limited turns, as the case may be. The erection of a general sign upon a local
street at each entry into a main or collector street shall be sufficient to
indicate the limitation on use of such local street for local traffic only.
One-way traffic signs shall be posted at each entry to a one-way street
section. Limited turn signs shall be posted at the intersection so regulated.
(Ord. 95-31, 9-27-1995; amd. Ord. 2000-O-02, 3-22-2000)
   B.   Violation, Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person to violate,
disobey or refuse to comply with any of the regulations or limitations upon
traffic provided for in this chapter in the operation of any motor vehicle at
the intersections or on the local streets indicated; and any person, upon
conviction, shall be fined not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each offense. (Ord. 95-31, 9-27-1995; amd. Ord. 2000-O-02, 3-22-2000; Ord.
2001-O-05, 3-28-2001)
CHAPTER 6
PARKING
SECTION:
5-6-1: Towing Unauthorized Parked Vehicles
5-6-2: Restricted Or Prohibited Parking In Designated Places
5-6-3: Display For Sale Of Certain Vehicles And Wheeled Devices On Nonowned Or
Occupied Residential Properties Prohibited
5-6-4: Resident Permit Parking
5-6-1: TOWING UNAUTHORIZED PARKED VEHICLES:
   A.   The Corporate Authorities by and through their designated agent are
hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by a
commercial towing service, any car or other vehicle parked in those parking
spaces owned by the Village of Green Oaks which has not been authorized to do
so by the Corporate Authorities of the Village of Green Oaks.
   B.   Cars so towed for unauthorized parking shall be stored in a safe place
and shall be restored to the owner or operator of such car upon payment of the
costs of towing and storage of the vehicle.
   C.   When a motor vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the Village shall
keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing the color, year of
manufacture, manufacturer's trade name, manufacturer's series name, body style,
vehicle identification number, and license plate year and number displayed on
the vehicle. The record shall also include the date and hour of tow, location
towed from, location towed to, reason for towing and the name of the person
authorizing the tow.
   D.   The Corporate Authorities shall cause the posting of notice signs,
pursuant to section 18a-302 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 1 , on the Village
Hall property, prior to enforcement of this section. (Ord. 2003-O-13, 9-24-
2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/18a-302.
5-6-2: RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED PARKING IN DESIGNATED PLACES:
   A.   No Parking Areas: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on the
following streets:
Arbor Lakes: Left (west) side of Sage Court throughout the subdivision.
Brookhaven: East (fire hydrant) side of Brookhaven Drive throughout the
subdivision.
Creekside: Right (south) side of Creekside throughout the subdivision.
Forest Cove: Left (fire hydrant) side of Old Rockland Road, Twin Lakes Court,
Greenfield Court and Spring Meadow Court throughout the subdivision.
Forest Glen: Left (west) side of Anderson Drive, and left (north) side of Irene
Lane throughout the subdivision.
Forest Lake: Left (fire hydrant) side of Forest Lake Lane throughout the
subdivision.
Forest Lake North: Right (fire hydrant) side of Minard Lane throughout the
subdivision.
Glenmore Woods: North (fire hydrant) side of Ashford Drive throughout the
subdivision.
Lake Somerset: Right (fire hydrant) side of Somerset Circle throughout the
subdivision.
Lambs Lane: Entire street, both sides.
Leola Drive: Except parking is permitted along the cul-de- sac at the west end
of Leola Drive.
Lucky Lake: Right (fire hydrant) side of Lucky Lake Drive throughout the
subdivision.
Reigate Woods: West (fire hydrant) side of Reigate Lane and Braemore Circle
throughout the subdivision.
Tantara: Left (fire hydrant) side of Prairie Ridge Road throughout the
subdivision.
   B.   No Stopping, Standing Or Parking Areas: Except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with law or the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control device it shall be unlawful to stop,
stand or park any vehicle on the following portions of the following streets or
right-of-ways:
Kenton Lane, along both sides of right-of-way, from 100 feet south of the
intersection of Kenton Lane and Cranbrook Road then south and easterly to a
point 100 feet east of the west property line of 1974 Kenton Lane (PIN no. 11-
114-0400-13).
Lexington Lane: That portion of Lexington Road abutting the Oak Grove school
property, both sides from Carriage Ct. to Glenmore Drive.
   C.   Parking Prohibited at Certain Times: When official signs, markings or
other devices are erected or placed upon any Village rights-of-way or any
portion thereof regulating parking by vehicles, no person shall park a vehicle
or cause a vehicle to remain on any rights-of-way in violation of such signs,
markings or other devices. Parking is prohibited at the following locations
during the following times of day:
North Forest Lake Lane, both sides of street, between the hours of two o’clock
(2:00) a.m. and six o’clock (6:00) a.m.
   D.   No Truck Parking: It shall be unlawful to park a truck on or along the
following locations:
Baker Road, both sides. Exception: Delivery of goods or materials where the
truck is parked for less than fifteen (15) minutes.
   E.   No Parking Baker Road: It shall be unlawful to park on or along the
following locations:
Baker Road, both sides. Exception: Delivery of goods or materials where the
delivery vehicle is parked for less than fifteen (15) minutes.
   F.   Signage: Proper signage shall be lawfully installed to provide
reasonable notice of the restrictions established in this section. (Ord. 2019-
O-16, 7-24-2019; amd. Ord. 2021-O-01, 1-27-2021; Ord. 2022-O-04, 2-23-2022;
Ord. 2022-O-07, 4-27-2022; Ord. 2022-O-20, 9-28-2022)
5-6-3: DISPLAY FOR SALE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES AND WHEELED DEVICES ON NONOWNED OR
OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity
to display for sale to the general public any motor vehicle, utility trailer,
recreation vehicle, vacation trailer, boat or other licensed, registered,
unlicensed or unregistered vehicle or similar wheeled or nonwheeled device,
upon private residential property not owned by the owner of the aforesaid
wheeled or nonwheeled devices.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity
to permit, cause or suffer the display for sale to the general public any motor
vehicle, utility trailer, recreation vehicle, vacation trailer, boat or other
licensed, registered, unlicensed or unregistered vehicle or similar wheeled or
nonwheeled device, upon private residential property not owned by the owner of
the aforesaid wheeled or nonwheeled devices.
   C.   "Motor vehicle" and "recreation vehicle", as used in this section,
shall have the same meanings as those provided in the Illinois Vehicle Code, as
amended. (Ord. 2007-O-07, 5-23-2007)
5-6-4: RESIDENT PERMIT PARKING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle which does not
bear a current and valid Village vehicle registration sticker or vehicle
registration decal in any space or area designated as "Village Of Green Oaks
Resident Parking Only".
   B.   The Village Board may designate such place or places upon Municipal
parking areas and upon other areas owned or controlled by the Village as
resident only parking areas. Such designation shall be effective only after an
appropriate sign, notice, signs or notices is or are installed or posted at
such place or places stating "Village Of Green Oaks Resident Parking Only".
   C.   The Village Administrator shall cause signs or notices to be painted,
installed or posted as herein contemplated.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully impair any sign or
notice painted, installed or posted under the provisions of this section or to
in any way tamper with, wilfully injure, break, destroy or impair any post,
installation, surface or object upon which any such sign or notice is so
painted, installed or posted.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any reason to affix a Village vehicle
registration sticker or decal to a vehicle not identified in the application
pursuant to which such sticker or decal was issued or to give, sell, transfer
or convey such sticker or decal for use, or to permit its use, on a vehicle not
identified in the application pursuant to which such sticker or decal was
issued.
   F.   If any place designated by the Village Board as resident parking only
is additionally designated by the Village Board as time limited parking, then a
vehicle bearing a Village vehicle registration sticker or decal issued pursuant
to this title shall also comply with the duly established time limited parking
regulations. (Ord. 2008-O-7, 7-23-2008)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTIES
CHAPTER 1
WAGE RATE FOR PUBLIC WORKS EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
6-1-1: Wage Rate Established
6-1-2: Applicability of Wage Rate
6-1-3: Rates to be Posted
6-1-4: Rates Furnished Upon Request
6-1-1: WAGE RATE ESTABLISHED:
To the extent and as required by "An Act Regulating Wages of Laborers,
Mechanics and Other Workmen Employed in Any Public Works by the State, County,
City or Any Public Body or Any Political Subdivision or by Anyone Under
Contract for Public Works", approved June 26, 1941, as amended 1 , the general
prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and other
workmen engaged in the construction of public works coming under the
jurisdiction of the Village is hereby ascertained to be the same as the
prevailing rate of wages for construction work in Lake County area as
determined by the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois as of June,
1980, a copy of that determination being incorporated herein by reference. The
definition of any terms appearing in this Chapter which are also used in the
aforesaid Act shall be the same as in said Act. (Ord. 80-07, 6-25-80)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 820 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
6-1-2: APPLICABILITY OF WAGE RATE:
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general prevailing
rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except public
works construction of this Village to the extent required by the aforesaid Act.
(Ord. 80-07, 6-25-80)
6-1-3: RATES TO BE POSTED:
The Village Clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection by any
interested party in the main office of this Village this determination of such
prevailing rate of wage. (Ord. 80-07, 6-25-80)
6-1-4: RATES FURNISHED UPON REQUEST:
The Village Clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any employer, and
to any association of employers, and to any person or association of employees
who have filed, or file their names and addresses, requesting copies of any
determination stating the particular rates and the particular class of workmen
whose wages will be effected by such rates. (Ord. 80-07, 6-25-80)
CHAPTER 2
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Street Names
6-2-2: Pedestrian Walkways
6-2-1: STREET NAMES:
The street signs shall be changed forthwith to the new street names herein set
forth.
   A.   The street names in Greenbrier Subdivision in Section 14, Township 44
North, Range 11, East of the Third Principal Meridian, in Green Oaks, Illinois
shall be changed as follows:
Benson (Private) Lane South shall henceforth be named "Benson Lane".
Greenbrier (Private) Lane shall henceforth be named "Benson Lane". (Ord. 82-08,
8-25-82)
   B.   The street names in Equestrian Oaks Subdivision in Section 2, Township
44 North, Range 11, East of the Third Principal Meridian, in Green Oaks,
Illinois shall be changed as follows:
"North Dan Patch Circle" shall henceforth be named "Dan Patch Drive".
"South Dan Patch Circle" shall henceforth be named "Towne Trail". (Ord. 83-03,
4-27-83)
   C.   The name of the single street in the Horace Subdivision No. 1, recorded
as Document No. 797504, Book 1189, Page 268 shall be changed to "Red Fox Lane".
(Ord. 93-29, 9-29-93)
6-2-2: PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS:
   A.   There is hereby established a class of public right of way to be known
as a "pedestrian walkway".
   B.   All pedestrian walkways shall hereafter be created by plat of
dedication, plat of subdivision or grant of easement for such purpose. The
following existing easements heretofore created are hereby designated as
pedestrian walkways:
      1.   In Saddle Hill Farm Subdivision: The common easement between Lots 20
and 21 and the easement on Open Space Lot 97 between Steeplechase Court and
O'Plaine Road.
      2.   In Saddle Hill 2C Subdivision: The common easement between Lots 30
and 31, between Lots 36 and 37, and the easement on Open Space Lot 43 between
Kenton Lane and Cranbrook Road.
      3.   Cambridge Estates Subdivision: The common easement between Lots 10
and 11 between King and Court and Redwood Lane.
   C.   The use of all pedestrian walkways shall be limited to persons walking
or riding on bicycles. No person shall use the said walkways with any form of
motorized or horse drawn vehicle or conveyance.
   D.   Any person violating any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each such
offense. (Ord. 87-18, 12-16-87)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Specific Improvements
6-3-1-1: Road Improvements In Greenbrier First Addition Subdivision
6-3-2: Regulation Of Work On Public Property And On Public Utilities
6-3-1: SPECIFIC IMPROVEMENTS:
6-3-1-1: ROAD IMPROVEMENTS IN GREENBRIER FIRST ADDITION SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Improvements Designated: A local improvement shall be constructed in
the Village, consisting of:
      1.   Reconstructing the road base and paving all of the Greenbrier Drive
in Greenbrier First Addition Subdivision, a distance of three thousand one
hundred fifty one feet (3,151').
      2.   Reconstructing the road base and paving all of Sunrise Road in
Greenbrier First Addition Subdivision, a distance of three thousand five
hundred feet (3,500').
      3.   Reconstructing the road base and paving all of Fox Run Drive in
Greenbrier First Addition Subdivision (except the portion thereof lying between
lots 33 and 34) a distance of three thousand seven hundred twenty five feet
(3,725').
      4.   Reconstructing portions of the drainage ditches and structures along
portions of the above described roads.
   B.   Construction Requirements:
      1.   The improvements shall consist of excavation and removal of
unsuitable existing road base material, repair of road base by installation of
bituminous asphalt material, construction of road base with aggregate base
course, regrading of ditches, relocation and replacement of culverts, adjusting
catch basins, installation of one and one-half inch (11/2") bituminous concrete
binder and of one and one-half inch (11/2") bituminous concrete surface course
Class I and regrading and replacement of topsoil and sod in all disturbed
parkway areas.
      2.   All materials of every kind and character to be used in the
construction of this improvement shall be first class quality, suitable for the
purpose for which they are to be used, and subject to the inspection and
approval of the Committee on Local Improvements of the Village.
      3.   All construction methods and materials used in construction of the
improvement herein provided for shall conform with the requirements of the
Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, issued by the State
of Illinois, Department of Transportation, Division of Highways and adopted
October 1, 1979, a copy of which is on file with the Village Clerk, except as
modified by the contract special conditions.
      4.   The quantities and types of materials to be used are as set forth in
the plans, specifications and estimate of cost incorporated herein by
reference.
      5.   All work shall be constructed in a workmanlike manner under the
superintendence of the Committee on Local Improvements of the Village.
      6.   Village datum for the purpose of this improvement is fixed and
established as the official datum of the United States Geological Survey.
   C.   Approval Of Plans And Specifications: The plans and specifications for
said improvements and the estimate of cost thereof, all heretofore submitted by
the Committee on Local Improvements and filed with the Village Clerk, are all
incorporated herein by reference and the same hereby are approved.
   D.   Special Assessment To Pay For Improvement:
      1.   The improvement shall be made and the cost thereof which is
estimated to be three hundred seventy nine thousand eight hundred eighty seven
dollars twenty cents ($379,887.20) shall be paid for by special assessment in
accordance with the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-
3-12, and amount not exceeding forty thousand seven hundred two dollars twenty
cents ($40,702.20) is hereby provided for to apply towards the payment of all
lawful costs and expenses incurred in making, levying and collecting the
assessment for said improvement including attorneys fees, engineering
inspection and other costs.
      2.   The aggregate amount herein ordered to be assessed and each
individual assessment shall be divided into ten (10) installments which shall
bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum until paid, all in the
manner and in accordance with the provisions of the aforesaid the Illinois
Municipal Code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-3-22.
      3.   For the purpose of anticipating the collection of the second and
succeeding installments of said assessment for said improvement, bonds shall be
issued payable out of said installments, bearing interest at the rate of five
percent (5%) per annum, payable annually and signed by the President of the
Village and attested by the Village Clerk, under the Corporate Seal of the
Village. The bonds shall be issued in accordance with, and shall in all
respects, conform to the provisions of the Illinois Municipal Code, as amended,
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-3-35.
   E.   Petition Filed By Village President: Bruce Boyke, President of the
Board of Trustees of the Village, is designated as the person to file a
petition in the Circuit Court of Lake County, as provided by law 1  in the name
of the Village, praying that steps may be taken to ascertain what property will
be benefitted by said improvement and the amount of such benefit and also that
steps be taken to levy a special assessment for said improvement in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and in the manner prescribed by law. (Ord.
80-01, 3-13-80)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/9-2-9.
6-3-2: REGULATION OF WORK ON PUBLIC PROPERTY AND ON PUBLIC UTILITIES:
No construction, installation or repairs to improvements, excavation, drainage,
landscaping planting, or removal of any trees, shrubbery or natural plants upon
any public street or right of way, or easement running to the Village or the
general public, or upon utilities owned by the Village such as the water or
sewer systems, or other public utilities installed on public streets or
easements including gas or electric or telephone or cable television supply
systems, shall be erected, installed, altered, converted, remodeled,
structurally repaired, moved, demolished or changed except in conformity with
the regulations and requirements hereinafter set forth and only after a
construction permit has been issued under the following terms:
   A.   Request For Public Work Permit: Whenever work upon public property or
utilities is proposed, the person or corporation proposing such work shall
first submit to the Village Administrator an application for a public work
permit to conduct such work setting forth such information, including
preliminary or sketch plans, if needed, as may be required by the Administrator
to identify the location, nature and extent of the proposed work.
   B.   Preliminary Permit: All requests for a permit shall be submitted to the
Village Engineer for preliminary approval of the construction or work concept
based upon the submitted information. When engineering concept approval is
granted, the permit shall be submitted to the Village Board for preliminary
permit approval.
   C.   Construction Permit: When a preliminary permit is granted by the
Village Board, the permittee shall apply for a construction permit by
submitting such plans, specifications and other information to the Village
Engineer as the Engineer deems necessary to determine and approve that the
proposed work is properly designed to meet minimum engineering standards for
such work and will satisfy all of the requirements and standards otherwise set
forth in the ordinances of the Village for construction of improvements on
public streets and easements, or to public and private utilities. When the
Engineer has approved the construction plans and determined the estimated cost
thereof, the approved plans and the required guarantee of performance shall be
submitted to the Village Board for final approval.
   D.   Guarantee Of Performance: Before a construction permit for any work
herein described is issued, the permittee shall provide a guarantee of
performance of the work in the manner and as required in the provisions of
Section
9-4-4 of the Village Code, including the requirement of a two (2) year
guarantee as set forth in subsection
9-4-4E thereof.
   E.   Subdivision Improvements: The provisions of this Section shall not
apply to work that has been approved and is being conducted pursuant to a final
plat of subdivision and under the guarantee of performance provided thereunder.
(Ord. 95-14, 3-22-95)
CHAPTER 4
TRAIL SYSTEM USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Artificially Powered Vehicles Prohibited
6-4-1: ARTIFICIALLY POWERED VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motorized vehicle at any time
upon the trail system of the village for purposes of this section. The term
"motorized vehicle" shall include motorcycles, motorbikes, motor scooters,
automobiles and any other mechanical device designed to transport human beings
which is powered by a combustion engine or electrical power or by spring
tension or wind sail. Provided however, motorized vehicles used in performing
maintenance, repair or installation upon the trail system at the direction of
the village shall be exempt from the prohibitions of this section. Any person
convicted of violating this section shall be fined a minimum of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per violation to a maximum of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) per violation. (Ord. 2001-O-01, 1-24-2001)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Title
7-1-2: Scope Of Regulations
7-1-3: Interpretation
7-1-4: Load And Capacity Placard Required
7-1-5: Nonconforming Buildings Or Structures
7-1-6: Dangerous Buildings
7-1-7: Sediment And Erosion Control
7-1-8: Driveway Apron And Culvert Standards
7-1-9: Mailbox Standards
7-1-10: Manmade Ponds
7-1-11: Construction Of Tennis Courts And Recreational Facilities
7-1-12: Trees, Shrubbery
7-1-12-1: In General
7-1-12-2: Dutch Elm Disease
7-1-12-3: Trees, Landscape Plans And Tree Preservation
7-1-12-4: Specifications For Tree Planting Material
7-1-12-5: Plant Material Standards
7-1-13: Berms
7-1-14: Limitation On Construction Hours
   Figure
7-1-8:A
   Figure
7-1-9:A
7-1-1: TITLE:
This title, including the rules and regulations it adopts by reference, is
entitled the BUILDING ORDINANCE. The "letter" and "number" designations used to
set off or identify its various parts refer to sections, subsections,
paragraphs, rules, regulations, or other divisions as the text or arrangement
may indicate. Reference to any one of these parts may be by such a designation
alone. (Ord. 60-09, 5-12-1960)
7-1-2: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   No building or structure, or parts or appurtenances thereof, or
improvements or changes upon any lot or parcel, such as water supply, sewage
disposal, plumbing installation, electrical installation, excavation, drainage,
landscaping, planting or removal of any trees, shrubbery or natural plants
located in the village shall be erected, installed, altered, converted,
remodeled, structurally repaired, moved, demolished, or changed except in
conformity with the regulations and requirements established in this title and
all other ordinances relating to building and zoning 1 . (Ord. 94-29, 10-26-
1994)
   B.   All buildings and structures, and parts and appurtenances thereof, both
existing and hereafter erected or installed shall be so maintained that the
occupants and users thereof and others are reasonably safe from the hazards of
fire, explosion, collapse, contagion and spread of infectious disease. If found
by the building commissioner not so maintained, he may order necessary
corrective work, repair, replacement, or removal.
   C.   These rules and regulations set forth requirements which are considered
reasonable and are held, in every instance, to be the minimum for the promotion
of public health, safety, and the general welfare. (Ord. 60-09, 5-12-1960)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8 of this code for zoning regulations.
7-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
Whenever in the regulations contained in this title, including the regulations
adopted by reference, it is provided that anything must be done to the approval
of or subject to the direction of the building commissioner or any other
officer of the village, this shall be construed to give such officer only the
discretion of determining whether the rules and standards established by
ordinance have been complied with and such provision shall not be construed as
to give any officer discretionary powers as to what such regulations or
standards shall be or power to require conditions not prescribed by ordinance
or to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
(Ord. 60-09, 5-12-1960)
7-1-4: LOAD AND CAPACITY PLACARD REQUIRED:
An owner shall post and maintain a sign, placard or plate in approved form,
after making application so to do, showing safe loading for each floor, and
safe capacity in persons at entrances of each room, floor, or building built or
used for any of the following purposes: school; church; public assembly;
residential institution; a place for harboring or housing persons for
correctional, medical or other care or treatment; storing materials; dance or
recreation hall, and serving of drinks or food. (Ord. 60-09, 5-12-1960)
7-1-5: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
   A.   Definition: A "nonconforming building" or "structure" is an existing
building or structure or part or appurtenance thereof not in conformance with
this title.
   B.   Requirements To Repair: Repair work requires a written application and
permit and work is limited to necessary repairs only unless the building or
part is made to conform in whole or part with the requirements of this title.
   C.   Alterations: Altering or enlarging shall be done in a manner conforming
with this title. (Ord. 60-09, 5-12-1960)
7-1-6: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:
A building or structure or part or appurtenance thereof or a construction
condition found to be hazardous to life, limb, or health, upon order of the
building commissioner or enacting authority, shall be corrected, replaced,
repaired, vacated, demolished, or removed and the premises or work restored to
or put in a safe condition within a reasonable period of time, as may be
appropriate in each case, when such a finding has been made in writing, written
notice of the findings and order have been given the owner or his agent or the
contractor, and except in emergencies, a hearing on the order has been held
before the building commissioner. (Ord. 60-09, 5-12-1960)
7-1-7: SEDIMENT AND EROSION CONTROL:
Prior to the issuance of a certificate of compliance or a final occupancy
permit for any new construction, all exposed earth shall be final graded.
Accumulated sediment resulting from said construction shall be removed from all
drainageways, and permanent protective vegetative cover shall be established by
either seeding grass or by laying sod. (Ord. 79-04, 7-25-1979)
7-1-8: DRIVEWAY APRON AND CULVERT STANDARDS:
Prior to the issuance of a certificate of compliance or a final occupancy
permit, the driveway apron(s) on the street right of way parkway shall be
paved. The minimum standards for both the driveway apron pavement and culvert
are set forth in figure number
7-1-8:A at the end of this chapter. (Ord. 76-04, 9-22-1976)
7-1-9: MAILBOX STANDARDS:
Prior to the issuance of a certificate of compliance or an occupancy permit, a
standard U.S. post office mailbox with a street number shall be installed. The
installation, placement and anchoring of the mailbox shall be in accord with
all United States postal service rules and regulations, as they may be amended
from time to time, and with the specifications set forth in figure number
7-1-9:A at the end of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-O-05, 4-25-2007)
7-1-10: MANMADE PONDS 1 :
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to control the construction
and use of manmade lakes, ponds and any and all other manmade bodies of water,
except swimming pools, and to protect the health, welfare and safety of the
residents of the village and to eliminate the creation of breeding areas for
mosquitoes.
   B.   Applicability Of Regulations: These regulations shall apply to all
lands within the corporate limits of the village.
   C.   Manmade Lakes, Ponds Prohibited, Exceptions: All manmade lakes, ponds,
and all other manmade bodies of water, covering an area larger than fifty (50)
square feet and having a depth in excess of one foot (1'), other than swimming
pools, are prohibited within the village except as provided in title 9 of this
code. (Ord. 76-04, 9-22-1976)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-3-5 of this code.
7-1-11: CONSTRUCTION OF TENNIS COURTS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to control the construction
and use of tennis courts and other playing courts or recreational facilities
requiring hard, paved, graded or special surfaces.
   B.   Applicability Of Regulations: These regulations shall apply to all
lands within the corporate limits of the village.
   C.   Building Permit Required: No construction shall commence until an
application for a building permit has been applied for and a building permit
issued. Such application shall include complete plans and specifications,
location sketch, and drainage drawings. Fees for the building permit shall be
established from time to time by the board of trustees of the village 1 .
   D.   Hard Surfaces: All tennis courts and other recreational facilities
requiring hard, paved, graded or special surfaces shall meet the following
requirements:
      1.   Setback shall be the same as those established for accessory
buildings for the zone in which they are to be constructed.
      2.   Coverage shall be included in the computation for total lot coverage
permitted in that zone.
      3.   Construction on a lot served by a septic system shall be in
accordance with the following:
         a.   All such lots shall provide a reserve capacity for a septic
system equivalent in square footage to at least the square footage of the
existing septic system.
         b.   No portion of the tennis court or recreational facility shall
infringe upon the existing septic system or the area reserved for reserve
septic system capacity.
      4.   Said construction shall not change natural drainage or increase the
flow of water from the lot on which it is to be constructed onto adjacent
property. (Ord. 76-06, 3-22-1976)
      5.   A fence not higher than twelve feet (12') may enclose all or part of
the facility. The fence must be designed and constructed to prohibit tennis
balls or other recreational equipment from traveling onto adjacent properties,
and must comply with all other relevant laws, ordinances and regulations. (Ord.
2001-O-07, 5-23-2001)
      6.   In the event lighting is provided, lighting must be installed in
such a manner so as not to cause glare on adjacent property. (Ord. 76-06, 3-22-
1976)
 
Notes
1 2. See section
  7-3-8-2 of this title.
7-1-12: TREES, SHRUBBERY:
7-1-12-1: IN GENERAL:
   A.   Planting: It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public
street, parkway, or other public place without having first secured a permit
therefor. All trees and shrubs so planted shall be placed subject to the
direction and approval of the village forester.
   B.   Removal: It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub
in any street, parkway, or other public place without having first secured
written approval from the village forester.
   C.   Injury: It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in any
public place.
   D.   Dangerous Trees: Any tree or shrub planted on private property which
impedes a drainage ditch or overhangs any sidewalk, street, or other public
place in the village in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or
travel on such place shall be trimmed by the owner of the premises on which
such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
   E.   Removal: Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on
or across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises
on which such tree grows or stands. The village forester may trim any such tree
or shrub, or remove the same or any branch thereof, so that the obstruction or
danger shall be done away with.
   F.   Wires:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or rope to any tree or shrub
in any public street, parkway or other public place, excepting with the
permission of the village board.
      2.   Any person or company given the right to maintain poles and wires in
the streets, alleys, or other public places in the village shall, in the
absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires
and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so far as
may be possible, and shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly trimmed,
subject to the supervision of the village forester, so that no injury shall be
done to either the poles and wires or the shrubs and trees by their contact.
   G.   Gas Pipes: Any person or company maintaining any gas pipe in the
village shall, in the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the
subject, keep such pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done to any
tree or shrub.
   H.   Excavations: In making excavations in streets or other public places
proper care shall be taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub,
wherever possible. An excavation permit shall not be issued until the Village
Forester has reviewed excavation procedures. The Village Forester shall
prescribe and publish procedures to be implemented by excavation permit
applicants. (Ord. 94-29, 10-26-94)
7-1-12-2: DUTCH ELM DISEASE:
   A.   Trees Affected with the Dutch Elm Disease Declared to be Public
Nuisances: All species and varieties of elm trees (trees of genus ulmus)
infected with the fungus known as the Dutch elm disease (Ceratobystis ulmi) as
determined by laboratory analysis are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   B.   Breeding Places of Elm Bark Beetles Declared to be Public Nuisances:
All species and varieties of elm trees that are dead or substantially dead, and
all dead elmwood to which the bark is still attached are hereby declared to be
public nuisances.
   C.   Unlawful to Maintain Public Nuisances: It shall be unlawful for any
owner of any lot or parcel of land in the Village of Green Oaks, Lake County,
Illinois, to permit or maintain on any such lot or parcel of land, a public
nuisance as set out in subsections A and B above and it shall be the duty of
any such owner to promptly remove any such elm tree or dead or substantially
dead elmwood by the Village and dispose of it either by burning or burying it
outside the Village.
   D.   Enforcement of Section: In order to carry out the purpose of this
Section and to implement the enforcement thereof, the Village Forester or their
duly authorized representative, is hereby authorized and empowered to enter
upon any lot or parcel of land in the Village at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of inspecting any elm trees or dead elmwood situated thereon and the
Village Forester or their duly authorized representative, may remove such
specimens from any such tree as are required for the purposes of the laboratory
analysis referred to in subsection A of this Section, or to determine whether
there is dead or substantially dead elm trees or dead elmwood on the property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to take any action to prevent the Village
Forester or their duly authorized representative from entering on any lot or
parcel of land in the Village for the purpose of such inspection, or to
interfere with the Village Forester or such representative, in the performance
of any of his duties provided under the provisions of this Section.
   E.   Duty of Owner to Remove Diseased Tree or Breeding Place After Notice:
If it is determined that any tree is a public nuisance as provided in
subsection B1 or 2, the Village Board shall serve or cause to be served upon
the owner of the lot or parcel of land on which such tree or dead elmwood is
located, a written notice requiring such owner to comply with the provisions of
this Section. If the person upon whom such notice is served, fails, neglects or
refuses to remove and destroy such elm tree or dead elmwood within thirty (30)
days after service of such notice, the Village Forester or his duly authorized
representative, may proceed to remove and dispose of such tree or dead elmwood,
and assess the cost thereof against the owner of such lot or parcel of land,
and the amount of such cost shall be paid by such owner to the Village.
   F.   Notice to Owner: Service of notice provided for in subsection E of this
Section, shall be served by personal service or by certified mail sent to the
person to whom the tax bill for the general taxes for the last preceding year
on the lot or parcel on which the infected elmwood or dead elm or elmwood is
located.
   G.   Village May Abate Nuisance and Assess the Cost to Owner: Any costs
incurred by the Village in the abatement of a public nuisance pursuant to this
Section may be assessed against the record owner of the land involved and the
Village may place a lien upon such property for those costs in the manner
provided by law.
   H.   Nuisance on Village Property: Any elm tree, or dead elmwood, on
property owned by the Village which is a public nuisance as provided by
subsections A or B of this Section shall promptly be removed and disposed of
under the supervision of the Village Forester or his duly authorized
representative, at the expense of the Village.
   I.   Penalty for Noncompliance: Any person violating any provision(s) of
this Section by failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with the provisions
of any notice herein provided for, within thirty (30) days after the service
thereof, or, who shall resist or obstruct the Village Forester, or his duly
authorized representative, in carrying out the provisions of Sections
7-1-12-1 through
7-1-12-5 of this Chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine
of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
   J.   Conflicting Ordinances Repealed and Saving Provisions: That all
ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this
Section be and the same are hereby repealed. Provided, however, that nothing
herein contained shall affect any rights, actions or causes of action which
shall have accrued to the Village prior to the effective date hereof.
   K.   Severability Provisions: The intention of the Village Board is hereby
expressed that the provisions of this Section are severable and that the
invalidity of any subsection hereof, or any portion of any subsection hereof,
shall not affect any other subsection, or portion of a subsection, of this
Section. (Ord. 94-29, 10-26-94)
7-1-12-3: TREES, LANDSCAPE PLANS AND TREE PRESERVATION:
   A.   Tree Location Plan: A tree location plan shall be required with each
subdivision application if public improvements are planned. Said plan shall:
      1.   Be drawn at a scale not smaller than one inch equals fifty feet (1"
= 50'). Reduced copies of said plan may be required by the Village.
      2.   Identify all existing trees four inches (4") in diameter or larger
measured six inches (6") above the ground by location, size, species, and
condition, which are within sixty feet (60') of a proposed street or private
road center line, or within twenty feet (20') of any proposed utility easement
(as measured from both of the utility easement edges).
      3.   Show proposed street rights of way and public improvement easements.
      4.   Indicate those trees shown on the plan that are proposed to be
removed.
      5.   A landscape plan as described in subsection B below may be required
at the Village discretion and, if required, shall include all of the above
information.
   B.   Landscape Plan:
      1.   A landscape plan shall be required for all applications for a
special use permit and may also be required at the Village's discretion of any
subdivisions. Said plan shall:
         a.   Be developed and implemented by a qualified landscape architect.
         b.   Be drawn at a scale not smaller than one inch equals fifty feet
(1" = 50'). Reduced copies may be required by the Village.
         c.   Show all existing trees four inches (4") in diameter or larger,
measured six inches (6") above the ground, and natural features, all existing
and proposed public rights of way and easements, and all proposed landscaping,
including such detail as the species, varieties, size and quantity of plant
materials and indicating those trees shown on the plan that are proposed to be
removed. Said landscape plan may substitute for the tree location plan,
required in subsection A above, if all the requirements of said subsection A
are met on the landscape plan.
         d.   Required approval by the Village Board after review by the Plan
Commission:
            (1)   Thereafter, all significant changes to the approved plan must
be approved by the Village Board after review by the Plan Commission.
            (2)   Minor changes to the approved plan, which do not affect the
goals of the plan, may be approved by the Village Forester and Building
Commissioner.
         e.   Have attached, a written statement from the landscape architect
describing the environmental effect of the landscaping on the subdivision and
surrounding area. Included therein shall be a statement setting forth the goals
of the plan, reasons why specific plant materials have been selected and the
time required for this plan to produce the desired environmental effect. Said
statement shall also explain how the plan will deal with any special
environmental conditions existing on the site or to be created by the
development.
      2.   The minimum landscape plan required for all new residences on
subdivided lots shall include the planting of two (2) oak trees (Quercus
species) at least two inches (2") in diameter as measured at six inches (6")
above the ground. Location shall be determined by owner/landscaper discretion.
   C.   Planting, Size, Spacing, Materials, Maintenance: All trees and
landscape material required by the Village shall be installed, maintained or
replaced in accordance with the following:
      1.   Planting and Maintenance:
         a.   The policies and specifications of the Village shall be followed,
a copy of which may be obtained from the Village Forester.
         b.   No plant materials may be installed unless a landscape or street
tree plan has been approved by the Village.
      2.   Spacing: Trees shall be planted according to the following spacing
requirements:
         a.   Small trees, which have an ultimate height of twenty feet to
thirty feet (20' - 30') and a fifteen foot to twenty five foot (15' - 25')
spread shall be planted fifteen feet to twenty feet (15' - 20') on center.
         b.   Medium trees, which have an ultimate height of thirty feet to
fifty feet (30' - 50') and a thirty foot to forty foot (30' - 40') spread shall
be planted twenty five feet to thirty feet (25' - 30') on center.
         c.   Large trees, which have an ultimate height greater than fifty
feet (50') and over a forty foot (40') spread shall be planted thirty five feet
to forty feet (35' - 40') on center.
A landscape plan, drawn by a qualified landscape architect, which proposes to
vary from these spacing requirements by grouping trees to achieve a special
landscape effect for parkway plantings, may be submitted and approved by the
Village. A written statement, as specified in subsection C5 below, shall
accompany any such request.
      3.   Size:
         a.   All required street trees shall be three inches (3") in diameter
at the time of planting, measured six inches (6") above ground level.
         b.   All other required trees and plant material shall be the size
specified in the approved tree location or landscape plan.
      4.   Type:
         a.   The species and variety of street trees shall be selected from
the permitted list, available from the Village Administrator (see Section
7-1-12-5 of this Chapter).
         b.   A mixture of species and variety of street trees shall be planted
an all new subdivision streets.
         c.   All other required trees and plant materials shall be the species
and variety as shown on the approved landscape plan.
      5.   Acceptance of Plant Materials and Maintenance Guarantee:
         a.   Prior to the acceptance of plant materials by the Village, the
Village will require that a final inspection be made by a qualified landscape
architect and the Village staff and that such architect provide to the Village
a written statement certifying that the approved landscape plan has been
implemented and that all materials have been planted in accordance with the
Village's specifications.
         b.   Upon acceptance of installed materials by the Village Board, the
developer shall provide to the Village a financial guarantee acceptable to the
Village Attorney, equal to the cost of all required maintenance for a two (2)
year period for all materials installed.
            (1)   Required maintenance shall be as specified in the policies
and specifications for tree planting and maintenance of the Village available
from the Village Forester.
            (2)   The Village may elect to either:
               (A) At the developers expense, perform all required maintenance
or contract to have all required maintenance performed, or
               (B) Require the developer to furnish for Village review and
approval, a contract with a landscape contractor insuring that maintenance
consistent with Village specifications will be performed for all plant
materials.
      6.   Replacement Guarantee: All materials planted shall be guaranteed by
the developer for two (2) growing seasons from the time of acceptance by the
Village Board. Such financial guarantee shall be in the amount of ten percent
(10%) of the cost of all the materials planted.
   D.   Tree Preservation: The following shall apply to all buildable lots in
the Village.
      1.   Purpose: It is stated public policy of the Village Board of the
Village to maintain, to the greatest extent possible, existing trees within the
Village. In addition to adding to the scenic beauty of the Village, the
maintenance of trees and wooded areas tends to preserve the ecology of the
Village through the filtering effect of trees on air pollutants. Trees also
help to provide a noise barrier, help to prevent erosion of topsoil, provide
nesting areas for birds and other wildlife, provide windbreaks and shaded
areas, and increase property values by adding to the aesthetic quality of land.
Therefore, the purpose of this subsection is to allow for the improvement of
platted but undeveloped lots and the improvement of unplatted properties where
trees of four inches (4") or larger exist.
      2.   Subdivided Lots: Tree preservation areas shall be established for
all new residences on subdivided lots where four inch (4") or larger trees
exist at the time of application for a building permit.
         a.   The "tree preservation area" is that area of a lot which is not
needed for the house and driveway construction and where all trees, four inches
(4") or larger in diameter, shall be preserved.
The "building activity area" shall be the area on the lot where building
activity may take place and shall be as small as possible, including the entire
area affected by building and grading activities related to the approved
construction. No construction activity, movement and placement of equipment or
material storage shall be permitted outside the building activity area, in the
tree preservation area. All buildings and driveways shall be located to
minimize tree damage and/or removal but consistent with minimum building
setback requirements of the Zoning Code. The building area shall be temporarily
fenced by the developer during all construction so that all trees in the tree
preservation area shall be preserved.
         b.   The Village Forester shall prescribe and publish procedures to be
implemented by building permit applicants. Such procedures shall be binding and
shall be filed for use and examination with the Building Department.
         c.   A building permit shall not be issued until the tree preservation
area has been fenced and the site has been inspected by the Village Forester
for compliance.
   E.   In New Subdivisions:
      1.   Location of Improvements: When determining the location of
improvements within a subdivision and the location of structures on lots, the
developer shall make every reasonable effort to save healthy trees having a
diameter of four inches (4") or greater, measured at six inches (6") above
ground, and other vegetation deemed appropriate.
      2.   As part of the preliminary plat procedure contained herein, the
developer shall submit a plat of survey certifying the location, size and
species of all healthy trees having a diameter of four inches (4") or greater
measured at six inches (6") above ground for areas within twenty five feet
(25') of any proposed improvement. For remaining areas covered by the
preliminary plat, only the general locations of the trees are required. The
developer shall indicate on such plat which trees he/she proposes to save in
accordance with this Section and, in general, those trees which will be lost.
The trees to be saved in accordance with this Section shall be agreed upon as
part of the preliminary plat approval.
      3.   Final Plat: As part of the final plat procedure contained herein.
The developer shall submit:
         a.   A proposed grading plan for the site, indicating the location,
size and species of the trees to be saved in accordance with the preliminary
plat approval.
         b.   A plan establishing the methods to be used for preserving the
trees that are to be saved. Such plan shall include the following provisions:
a) all grading and construction equipment shall be forbidden from encroaching
within the tree's drip line; b) crushed limestone or other materials
detrimental to the tree shall not be dumped within the tree's drip line or at
any higher location where drainage toward the tree could affect the health of
the tree; and c) installation of fencing at the periphery of the tree's drip
line shall be required.
         c.   The developer's processed methodology for saving existing trees
in accordance with the preliminary plat approval shall be reviewed by the
Village Forester.
If, in the opinion of the Village Forester, the developer has not taken the
necessary precautions in preserving such existing trees, it will be recommended
that the subdivision plat not be approved until such time as the developer
satisfactorily amends his plans for the preservation of such existing trees.
         d.   A building permit shall not be issued until the Village Forester
has inspected the site and determined that all trees to be preserved have been
properly fenced as stated herein.
      4.   Destruction or Removal: Trees destroyed or removed as a result of
the development of a subdivision shall be subject to the replacement provisions
of this Section.
      5.   Replacement: In new subdivisions trees destroyed or removed as a
result of the development of the subdivision shall be replaced in accordance
with the tree replacement standards herein. The following trees must be
replaced.
         a.   Trees four inches (4") in diameter or greater measured at six
inches (6") above ground located in the right of way of proposed roads.
         b.   Trees four inches (4") in diameter or greater measured at six
inches (6") above ground located in common open areas, parks, surrounding
detention facilities or similar areas within the subdivision.
         c.   Trees located in any required yard.
      6.   Replacement Credit for Existing Trees: Where the developer of the
subdivision or the owner of a lot within a subdivision protects and preserves
trees located on the buildable portion of a lot, such trees may be substituted
for required replacement trees as follows.
         a.   One tree twelve inches (12") in diameter measured at six inches
(6") above ground or greater, or two (2) trees four inches (4") in diameter
measured at six inches (6") above ground or greater may be substituted for one
tree twelve inches (12") in diameter measured at six inches (6") or greater
removed or destroyed.
         b.   One tree four inches (4") in diameter measured at six inches (6")
above ground for one other tree six inches (6") in diameter measured at six
inches (6") above ground or greater removed or destroyed.
         c.   Trees for which tree replacement credit has been given shall be
identified on the landscape plan. If tree replacement credit has been given to
a developer and a subsequent lot owner removes the trees, the lot owner shall
be required to replace such trees in accordance with the above standard.
   F.   Protection: Tree preservation areas shall be protected from the
buildable activity areas by a barrier (fencing) of satisfactory materials to
prevent impingement of construction vehicles, materials, spoils and equipment
into the tree preservation area. Installation of fencing at the periphery of
the tree's drip line shall be required. The Village Forester and Building
Commissioner shall have the authority to stop construction on the site until
adequate barriers have been constructed. If a barrier is constructed on the
site and is not adequately maintained in a manner which protects the tree
preservation area, the Village Forester and Building Commissioner shall have
the authority to stop construction until the barrier is repaired.
   G.   Penalty: Any tree four inches (4") in diameter or greater, removed
prior to the submission of a building permit application shall be punishable by
a fine per tree*:
Tree Diameter (Inches)* Fine (Dollars)
Tree Diameter (Inches)* Fine (Dollars)
   4                 $ 400.00
   5                 500.00
   6                 600.00
   7                 700.00
   8                 800.00
   9                 900.00
   10 or greater     1,000.00
   *As measured at 6 inches above ground.
 
The diameter of removed trees shall be determined by the average stump diameter
where cut at six inches (6") from surrounding ground level. In addition, each
tree removed shall be replaced as set forth in the tree replacement standard.
Replacement location shall be as determined by the Village Forester. A cash
bond shall be provided at the time of issuance of a building permit to
guarantee the replacement of a number of trees determined to be required by the
Village Forester.
   H.   Tree Replacement Standard: Trees required to be replaced, shall be
replaced as follows:
      1.   Any canopy tree twelve inches (12") in diameter measured at six
inches (6") above ground or greater shall be replaced by not less than two (2)
canopy trees of at least four inches (4") caliper.
      2.   Any canopy tree with at least six inches (6") caliper measured at
six inches (6") above ground but less than twelve inches (12") measured six
inches (6") above ground shall be replaced with one canopy tree not less than
four inches (4") caliper.
      3.   Any ornamental tree with at least four inches (4") caliper measured
at six inches (6") above ground shall be replaced with one canopy tree not less
than four inches (4") caliper.
      4.   Evergreen trees shall be replaced only with evergreen trees and
deciduous trees shall only be replaced with deciduous trees.
      5.   The species of replacement tree shall be suitable for the location
and soil conditions of the site.
      6.   Replacement trees shall be selected from the approved list of plant
materials, herein.
      7.   A tree which is transplanted on site is not required to be replaced.
   I.   Streetscape Preservation:
      1.   Purpose: The Village Board has previously identified and hereby re-
adopts the public policy to preserve trees as an important public resource. In
addition to this policy, the purpose of this subsection of the Section
7-1-12 is to preserve natural streetscapes throughout the community, to
preserve the essential character of those areas throughout the community which
are heavily wooded and in a more natural state, and to maintain property values
throughout the community.
      2.   Definitions:
    CUTTING: Felling or removal of a tree or any procedure the result of which
is to cause the death or substantial destruction of a tree. Cutting does not
include normal pruning, trimming or topping of trees.
   DRIP LINE: An artificial line along the ground which conforms to the
perimeter of the crown of a tree and projects vertically to the ground.
   REMOVE or REMOVAL: The actual physical removal, or the effective removal
through damaging, poisoning or other direct or indirect action resulting, or
likely to result in, the death of a tree.
      3.   Tree Preservation Area:
         a.   "Tree preservation areas" are hereby established in the front
yards of each lot, corner side yards in the case of corner lots, and any side
of a lot fronting an a public street for all developed properties as
hereinafter set forth.
         b.   Within the "tree preservation areas", no tree greater than four
inches (4") in diameter as measured at six inches (6") above the ground shall
be removed except as otherwise provided for in this Section.
      4.   Designation:
         a.   The depth of the "tree preservation area" shall be thirty five
feet (35').
         b.   Within this area, the property owner shall be permitted to trim
and remove trees that are less than four inches (4") in diameter measured at
six inches (6") above the ground so as to create a healthy and thriving
environment for the larger, more significant trees.
         c.   That portion of the lot located outside the "tree preservation
area" may be cleared by the owner of the property so as to insure reasonable
enjoyment and use of the property. However, this removal must not encroach on,
or damage any of the trees which may be located within, the "tree preservation
area".
      5.   Requirements:
         a.   No trees greater than four inches (4") in diameter, as measured
at six inches (6") above the ground, shall be removed from the tree
preservation area without a permit. Permits authorizing removal of trees in
excess of four inches (4") in diameter may be issued by the Village Forester in
circumstances when the issuance of such a permit is found not to be
inconsistent with the purpose of this Section. Conditions under which a permit
may be issued include, but will not be limited to the following:
            (1)   The tree is dead, or dying;
            (2)   The tree is diseased;
            (3)   The tree is damaged or injured to the extent that it is
likely to die or become diseased;
            (4)   The removal of the tree will enhance the tree preservation
area and the health of the remaining trees;
            (5)   The removal of the tree will avoid or alleviate an economic
hardship or a hardship of another nature on the property or residence; or
            (6)   The removal of the tree is consistent with good forestry
practices.
In all cases of permit application the Village Forester shall use reasonable
interpretations of the circumstances in determining whether or not the permit
should be issued.
         b.   In issuing a permit, or if a tree four inches (4") in diameter or
larger is damaged or removed from the tree preservation area, the property
owner or his designee may be required to replace each tree so removed so as to
minimize the visual impact from the loss of each tree as observed from adjacent
properties or parkways. The size of each such replacement, to be no less than
four inches (4") in diameter, the location and the variety of the replacement
tree, shall be reviewed and approved by the Village Forester who may, solely at
his discretion, require more than one replacement tree if he deems it necessary
to reestablish the visual character created by the tree which was removed. If
the property owner can demonstrate hardship or special circumstances, the
Forester, in his discretion, may waive the planting of a replacement tree, or
trees, but only if a waiver is consistent with the purposes of this Section.
      6.   Appeals: The property owner may appeal to the Village Administrator
any decision made by the Village Forester and Building Commissioner or other
Village official under the provisions of this Section within thirty (30) days
of the decision being rendered.
      7.   Emergencies:
         a.   In the event of emergency conditions requiring the immediate
cutting or removal of trees within the "tree preservation area" in order to
avoid immediate danger or hazard to persons or residences, an emergency permit
will be issued without formal application, by the Village Forester, or his
designee.
         b.   If the Village Forester is unavailable and no member of this
staff is reasonably available, in the event of such an emergency, it shall be
lawful to proceed with the cutting of tree or trees without permission to the
extent necessary to avoid the immediate danger or hazard. In the event of the
cutting of any tree under the provisions of this Section, without the prior
filing of an application, the person doing so shall, within forty eight (48)
hours thereafter, report the action taken to the Village Forester, and shall
forthwith provide such information and evidence as may be reasonably required
by the Village Forester to explain and justify the action taken.
      8.   Penalty: Any violation of this subsection shall be punishable by a
fine per tree removed:
Tree Diameter (Inches)* Fine (Dollars)
Tree Diameter (Inches)* Fine (Dollars)
   4                 $ 400.00
   5                 500.00
   6                 600.00
   7                 700.00
   8                 800.00
   9                 900.00
   10 or greater     1,000.00
   *As measured at 6 inches above ground.
 
(Ord. 94-29, 10-26-94)
7-1-12-4: SPECIFICATIONS FOR TREE PLANTING MATERIAL:
   A.   Special Conditions:
      1.   Scope of Work: The bids shall be made on the basis of the bidder
providing nursery grown plant materials including the digging, balling and
burlapping, delivery, and planting of the materials to the Village at the site
of planting, Green Oaks, Illinois. The work shall consist of furnishing various
trees of the species and varieties stated on the proposal form, which shall be
planted by the vendor at the locations furnished by the Village. The Village
shall reserve the right to accept or reject any or all bids, and to modify the
contract in accordance with the unit prices submitted by the bidder.
   B.   Plant Materials:
      1.   Source of Supply:
         a.   All plant materials supplied shall conform to the current edition
(ANSIZ60.1) of the American Standard for Nursery Stock as approved by the
American National Standards Institute, Inc.
         b.   Plant materials may be inspected and approved by the Village
Forester, or his duly authorized representative, at the source of supply prior
to digging. All materials are to be of highest quality.
         c.   All plant materials shall have been grown under climatic
conditions similar to those in Chicago, Illinois.
         d.   All plants shall be freshly dug. No heeled-in plants or plants
from cold storage will be accepted. One-sided plants or plants taken from
tightly planted nursery rows will also be rejected. All plants shall be typical
of their species or variety and shall have a sufficient normal growth of spread
and height. They shall be sound, healthy and vigorous, well- branched and
densely foliated when in leaf. They shall be free of disease, insect pests and
larvae. They shall have healthy, well-developed root systems.
      2.   Measurements: Caliper of trees up to four inches (4") shall be taken
six inches (6") above the ground level. Trees over four inches (4"+) shall be
measured one foot (1') above the ground level.
      3.   Inspection:
         a.   All plant materials may be inspected and approved by the Village
Forester, prior to digging.
         b.   Certificates of inspection of plant materials required by the
Federal, State or other governmental agencies are to accompany all shipments
within the State and outside Illinois.
         c.   Inspection and approval by the Village Forester at the source of
supply does not abdicate the right of the Superintendent to reject any
materials after they have been delivered to the site. Material from nurseries
of greater distances than three hundred fifty (350) miles may not be selected
prior to digging and delivery. A final determination of acceptability of the
material will be made at the time of delivery. The Village will notify the
nursery either by phone or in writing no more than five (5) days after delivery
of all materials not acceptable to the Village Forester.
      4.   Digging and Handling:
         a.   Balling and Burlapping: Plant materials indicated "B&B" on the
proposal form shall be balled and burlapped with firm, natural balls of earth.
The balls shall be of sufficient depth and width to include adequate fibrous
and feeding roots to insure full recovery and development of the plants. No
plant dug with a ball shall be accented if the ball is broken before or during
delivery operations, except by special approval of the Village Forester.
         b.   Machine Dug Materials:
            (1)   Wire baskets used instead of burlap shall have a liner of
burlap inside the basket. Wire used for baskets shall be of a type which is not
rust proof, such as aluminum or wire with an aluminized or galvanized coating.
            (2)   The ball size shall be increased at least two (2) sizes in
diameter from those specified in ANSIZ60.1 1  when using a machine for digging
which digs a tapered ball similar to the Vermeer digger.
         c.   Damaged Trees: Trees with broken major branches, or badly bruised
or damaged bark, are not acceptable, and may be rejected by the Village
Forester or the duly authorized representative.
         d.   Protection of Plants: Roots, balls and crowns, if in leaf, of all
plants shall be protected at all times from sun and/or drying winds prior to
and during delivery, and between the delivery site and planting site.
         e.   Topsoil: The successful bidder is to supply topsoil for
backfilling of trees. Topsoil shall be reasonably free of subsoil, quack grass
roots, noxious weed seeds, stones, lumps, plants or their roots, and other
extraneous matter. Topsoil shall not be used for planting operations while in a
frozen or muddy condition. All topsoil material shall be approved by the
Village Forester.
         f.   Tree Pits: All tree pits shall be excavated to the depth below
the finished grade required to accommodate a bed of top soil not less than six
inches (6") in depth beneath the roots. The ball shall rest on this bed when
the tree is properly set to a finished grade. All excavated material shall be
removed and legally disposed of from the site. The pits shall be backfilled
with top soil as the trees are set.
         g.   Coordination: All planting to be coordinated with the Village
Forester.
         h.   Planting Time: All balled and burlapped plants which cannot be
planted immediately upon delivery to the site shall be well protected with
soil, wet straw, or other acceptable materials. All balled and burlapped plants
shall be planted at their locations no later than three (3) days after
delivery.
      5.   Quantities on Proposal: The quantity and size of plant materials
designated on the proposal are approximate and may be increased or decreased at
the discretion of the Village depending on availability of stock and nearest
size required.
      6.   Guarantee and Replacements:
         a.   All prices for plant materials shall include a unit price for a
one year guarantee on each tree and a unit price without a guarantee on each
tree. The Village reserves the right to accept plant material with or without a
guarantee. A guarantee shall extend for a period of one year from the date of
delivery. Under no circumstances will the nursery stock supplier be obligated
to a replacement beyond the one year guarantee period. Plants damaged by
actions of employees of the Village, by acts of God, or by vandalism are not
guaranteed. A guarantee is for replacement of a tree one time only.
         b.   Any plant which does not survive the guarantee period of one year
and is alive but does not represent normal growth characteristics of health and
vigor for the species or variety as determined by a representative of the
Village shall be replaced at no cost to the Village. During the first growing
season, injury from disease and/or insect problems attributable to nursery
source from which the plant material originated which has damaged a plant so as
to interfere with normal growth, health and vigor shall be replaced.
      7.   Alternate: Quotations on trees not designated, either size or
species, must comply with all provisions of the above specifications. Any
variations from these species will not be permitted unless approved by the
Village Forester.
      8.   Nomenclature: The plants indicated to be provided shall be true to
name and the nomenclature shall generally conform with that accepted in the
nursery trade.
      9.   Substitutions: Substitutions for species will not be permitted. If
proof is submitted that any plant specified is not obtainable, a proposal will
be considered for use of nearest equivalent size or variety, with an equitable
adjustment to the contract price. Such proof shall be substantiated in writing
to the Village.
      10.   Labeling: The vendor shall plainly label all plant material with a
waterproof label stating the botanical name and size of the respective species
and variety. The labels shall be attached firmly to plants and shall be of such
nature as to be plainly legible for at least sixty (60) days.
      11.   Delivery: All plantings are to be coordinated with the Village
Forester at 2020 O'Plaine Road, Green Oaks, Illinois.
   C.   Planting Operations:
      1.   Layout: Locations for the plant materials, and outlines of the area
to be planted, shall be marked on the ground and staked prior to any
excavation.
      2.   Programming: It shall be the responsibility of the landscape
contractor to schedule the planting operations to complete the work within the
time allowed.
      3.   Planting Pits: Planting pits shall be excavated with vertical side
and be circular in outline. (Ord. 94-29, 10-26-94)
 
Notes
1 1. American National Standards Institute, Inc.
7-1-12-5: PLANT MATERIAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Restricted Trees: The following list of trees will not be allowed to be
planted as street trees in the dedicated rights of ways, within ten feet (10')
of a right of way or within sewer and water easements where tree roots will
damage sewer and water lines.
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name         Common Name
                       
Populus - all species  Aspen, Cottonwood and
                       Poplar, etc.
Robinia pseudo-accacia Black Locust
Acer negunda           Box Elder
Catalpa bignoides      Catalpa
Ulmus parvifolia       Siberian Elm
                       
All species            Evergreen/Conifers
All species            Fruit Trees
Maclura pomifera       Osage Orange
Acer saccharinum       Silver Maple
Ailanthus altesma      Tree of Heaven
Salix biloba           Willow
 
   B.   Recommended Trees: The following list of trees are recommended based an
the Chicago Horticultural Society - Chicago Botanic Garden, "Best Deciduous
Trees for Chicago", and the availability from local nurseries. Recommended
street trees are shown with an asterisk (*).
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name                Common Name
                              
Acer ginnala                  Amur Maple
Acer griseum                  Paperback Maple
Acer platanoides              *Norway Maple
Acer rubrum                   *Red Maple
Acer saccharum                *Sugar Maple
Acer triflorum                *Three-Flower Maple
Aeseulus x camea              Red Horsechestnut
Alnus glutinosa               Common Alder
Amelancheir x grandiflora     Apple Serviceberry
Betula nigra                  River Birch
                              
Betula platyphylia            Whitespire Birch
japonica "Whitespire"
Carpinus caroliniana          *American Hornbeam
Celtis occidentalis           *Common Hackberry
Cercidiphyllum japonicum      Katsura Tree
Cercis canadensis             Eastern Redbud
                              
Cladrastis lutea              American Yellowwood
Cornus alternifolia           Pagod Dogwood
Cornus mas, Cornelian-Cherry  Dogwood
Corylus colurna               Turkish Filbert
Crataegus crus-galli          Cockspur Hawthorn
                              
Crataegus phaenopyrun         Washington Hawthorn
Crataegus viridis             Green Hawthorn
Fagus sylvatica               European Beech
Fraxinus americana            *White Ash
Fraxinus pennsylvanica        *Green Ash
                              
Ginkgo biloba                 *Ginko or Maidenhair Tree
Gleditsia triacanthos inermis *Thornless Honeylocust
Gymnocladus diocus            Kentucky Coffeetree
Koelreuteria paniculata       Golden-rain tree
Larix decidua                 European Larch
                              
Liriodendron tulipifera       *Tulip Tree
Magnolia x loebneri           Loebner Magnolia
Magnolia x soulangiana        Saucer Magnolia
Magnolia stellata             Star Magnolia
Malus spp                     Crabapples
 
Partial list of crabapple with good disease resistance and/or "good form":
Adams, Ames White, baccata "jackii", Beverly, Centennial, floridunda, Liset,
Mary Potter, sargentii, Snowdrift, and White Angel.
Crabapples that should not be planted because of disease: Almey, amoldiana,
Eleyi, Flame, Goldfinch, Hopa, ioensis, Irene, Jubilee, Leslie, Pink
Perfection, scheideckeri, Snowcloud, Strathmore, Vanguard.
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name         Common Name
                       
Nyssa sylvantica       Black Tupelo or Sourgum
Ostrya virginiana      *Hophornbean or Ironwood
phellodendron amurense Armur Cork Tree
Phunus sargentii       Sargent Cherry
Prunus virginia        Shubert Cherry
                       
Pyrus calleryana       Callery Pear
Quercus alba           *White Oak
Quercus imbricaria     *Shingle Oak
Quercus macrocarpa     *Burr Oak
Quercus rubra          Red Oak
                       
Rhus typhina           Staghorn Sumac
Sophora japonica       Japanese Pagodatree or
                       Scholartree
Syringa reticulate     Japanese Tree Lilac
Taxodium distichum     Bald Cypress
Tilia cardata          *Littleaf Linden
                       
Tilia tomentosa        *Silver Linden
Ulmus parivifolia      *Chinese Elm
 
   C.   Recommended Deciduous Shrubs: The following list of deciduous shrubs
are recommended based on the Chicago Horticultural Society - Chicago Botanic
Garden, "Best Deciduous Shrubs for Chicago", and the availability from local
nurseries.
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name                 Common Name
                               
Abeliephyllum distichum        White Forsythia
Aesculus parviflora            Bottlebrush Buckeye
Berberis koreana               Korean Barberry
Berberis x mentorensis         Mentor Barberry
Berberis thunbergii            Japanese Barberry
                               
Chaenomeles japonica           Japanese Flowering Quince
Chionanthus virginicus         White Fringetree
Clethra alnifolia              Summersweet
Comptonia peregrina            Sweetfern
Cornus alba                    Tatarian Dogwood
Cornus racemosa                Gray Dogwood
cornus sericea or              Redosier Dogwood
C. stolonifera
Cotinus coggygria              Smokebush
Cotoneaster adpressus          Creeping Cotoneaster
                               
Cotoneaster apiculatus         Cranberry Cotoneaster
Cotoneaster divaricatus        Spreading Cotoneaster
Cotoneaster lucidus            Hedge Cotoneaster
Cotoneaster multiflorus        Manyflowered Cotoneaster
Daphe mezereum                 February Daphne
                               
Euonymus alata                 Winged Euoymus or
                               Burningbush
Euonymus europaea              European Euonymus
Forsythia x intermedia         Border Forsynthia
Forsythia suspensa             Weeping Forsythia
Forsythia viridissima          Bronx Forsythia
                               
Forthergilla gardenii          Dwarf Fothergilla
Forthergilla major             Large Fothergilla
Genista tinctoria              Common Woadwaxen or
                               Dyer's Greenwood
Hamamelis x intermedia         Intermediate Witchhazel
Hamamelis vernalis             Vernal Witchhazel
                               
Hamamelis virginiana           Common Witchhazel
Hydrangea arbarescens          Smooth Hydrangea
Hydrangea heteromalla          Bretschneider Hydrangea
Hydragea paniculata            Panicle Hydrangea
Heeypericum calycinum          Weeping St-John's-Wort
                               
Hypericum kalmianum            Kalm St-John's-Wort
Hypericum kalmianum patulum    Goldencup St-John's-Wort
Ilex verticillata              Winterberry
Kolkwitzia amabilis            Beauty Bush
                               
Ligustrum obtusifolium         Regel's Border Privet
var. regelianum
Myrica pensylvanica            Bayberry
Paeonia suffruticosa           Tree Peony
Philadelphus spp.              Mockorange
Potentilla fruticosa           Bush Conquefoil
                               
Prunus maritima                Beach Plum
Prunus x Hally Jolivetta       Hally Jolivette Cherry
Prunus tenella                 Dwarf Russian Almond
Prunus tomentosa               Nanking or Manchu Cherry
Pyracantha coccinea            Scarlet Firethorn
                               
Rhamnus frangula Asplenifolia  Cutleaf Glossy Buckhorn
Rhododendron arborescens       Sweet Azalea
Rhododendron mucronulatum      Korean Rhododendron
                               
Rhododendron x Northern Lights Northern Lights Azalea
Rhododendron schlippenbachii   Royal Azalea
                               
Rhodotypos scandens            Jetbead
Rhus aromatica                 Fragrant Sumac
Rhus typhina                   Staghorn Sumac
Ribes alpinum                  Alpine Currant
Rose omeinensis                Omei Rose
                               
Rosa rugosa                    Rugosa or Saltspray Rose
Rosa Wichuraiana               Memorial Rose
Sambucus canadensis            Elderberry
Sarbaria sorbifolia            Ural False Spirea
Spirea x arguta                Garland Spirea
                               
Spirea x albiflora             Japanese White Spirea
Spiraea x billiardii           Billard Spirea
Spiraea bullata                Crispleaf Spirea
Spiraea x bumalda              Bumalda Spirea
Spiraea japonica               Japanese Spirea
                               
Spiraea nipponica              Nippon Spirea
Spiraea prunifolia             Bridalwreath Spirea
Spiraeax vanhouttei            Vanhoutte Spirea
Stephanandra incisa            Cutleaf Stephanandra
Symphoricarpos albus           Common Snowberry
                               
Symphoricarpos x chenaultii    Chenault Coralberry
Symphoricarpos orbiculatus     Indiana Currant
Syringa x chinensis            Chinese Lilac
Syringa meyeri                 Palibin Lilac
Syringa                        Lilac varieties
                               
                              Adelaid Dunbar
                              Agnes Smith
                              Alphonse Lavallee
                              Belle De Nancy
                              Charles Joly
                               
                              Donald Wyman
                              Esther Staley
                              Isabella
                              Mme Lemoine
                              Miss Kim
                               
                              Mont Blanc
                              President Lincoln
                              Royalty
                              Sister Justena
                              Victor Lemoine
                               
Tamarix ramosissima            Five-stamen Tamarix
                               
Viburnum carlesii              Koreanspice Viburnum
Viburnum cassinoides           Witherod Viburnum
Viburnum dentatum              Arrowwood Viburnum
Viburnum x juddii              Judd Viburnum
                               
Viburnum Iantana               Wayfaringtree Viburnum
Viburnum opulus                European Cranberrybush
Viburnum plictatum Forma       Doublefile Viburnum
Tomentosum
Viburnum prunifolium           Blackhaw Viburnum
Viburnum sieboldii             Siebold Viburnum
                               
Viburnum trilobum              American Cranberrybush
Weigela florida                Old Fashioned Weigela
Weigela middendorffiana        Middendorf Weigela
Xanthorhiza simplicissima      Yellowroot
 
   D.   Recommended Evergreens: The following list of evergreens are
recommended based on the Chicago Horticultural Society - Chicago Botanic
Garden, "Best Evergreens for the Chicago Area", and the availability from local
nurseries.
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name                    Common Name
                                  
Abies concolor                    White Fir
Abies holophylla                  Needle Fir
Abies homolepis                   Nikko Fir
Abies koreana                     Korean Fir
Abies lasiocarpa                  Alpine Fir
                                  
Abies nordmanniana                Nordman Fir
Chamaecyparis pisifera            Sawara False Cypresso
Chamaecyparis pisifera, Filifera  Threadleaf False Cypress
Juniperus Chinensis Cultivars
varieties:
Armstrongii                       Armstrong Juniper
Blue Point                        Blue Point Juniper
Columnaris Glauca                 Blue Columnar Chinese
Fairview                          Fairview Chinese Juniper
Hetzii Columnaris                 Hetz Columnar Juniper
Iowa                              Iowa Chinese Juniper
                                  
Keterleeri                        Keteleer Chinese Juniper
Maneyi                            Maney Chinese Juniper
Old Gold                          Old Gold Juniper
Pfitzeriana Compacta              Compact Pfitzer Juniper
Pfitzeriana Kallay                Kallay Pfitzer Juniper
var. sargentii                    Sargent Juniper
var. sargentii                    Blue Sargent Juniper
Mint Julep                        Mint Julep Juniper
Wintergreen                       Wintergreen Juniper
Juniperus communis Repanda        Creeping Juniper
                                  
Juniperus horizontalis Cultivars:  
Bar Harbor                        Bar Harbor Juniper
Blue Chip                         Blue Chip Juniper
Dunvegan Blue                     Dunvegan Blue Juniper
Livida                            Livida Juniper
                                  
Plumosa Compacta                  Tures Strain Andorra
Wiltonii                          Blue Rag Juniper
Wisconsin                         Wisconsin Juniper
                                  
Juniperus procumbens              Japanese Garden Juniper
Juniperus procumbens Nana         Dwarf Japanese Gdn Juniper
Juniperus sabina Broadmoor        Broadmoor Juniper
Juniperus sabina Buffalo          Buffalo Juniper
Juniperus squamato Blue Star      Blue Star Juniper
                                  
Juniperus virginiana Cultivars:    
Burkee                            Burk Red Cedar
Canaertii                         Canaert Red Cedar
Glauca                            Blue Red Cedar
Grey Owl                          Grey Owl Red Cedar
                                  
Hillii                            Hill's Red Cedar
Kosteri                           Kosteri Red Cedar
Silver Spreader                   Silver Spreader Red Cedar
Picea abies                       Norway Spruce
Picea abies Nidiformis            Bird's Nest Spruce
                                  
Picea glauca                      White Spruce
Picea glauca Conica               Dwarf's Alberta Spruce
Picea omorika                     Serbian Spruce
Picea orientalis                  Oriental Spruce
Picea pungens                     Colorado Spruce
                                  
Picea pungens Cultivars:           
Glauca                            Colorado Blue Spruce
Hoopsii                           Hoopsii
Moerheimii                        Moerheim Spruce
Thompsen                          Thompsen Spruce
                                  
Pinus cembra                      Swiss Stone Pine
Pinus densiflora Umbraculifera    Tanyosho Pine
Pinus flexilis                    Lumber Pine
Pinus koraiensis                  Korean Pine
Pinus mugo var. mugo              Dwarf Mugho Pine
                                  
Pinus parviflora                  Japanese White Pine
Pinus strobus                     Eastern White Pine
Pinus wallichiana                 Himalayan Pine
                                  
Pseudotsuga menziesi              Douglas Fir
Taxus cuspidata                   Japanese Yew
                                  
Taxus cuspidata Capitata          Japanese Yew
Taxus cuspidata Nana              Dwarf Japanese Yew
Taxus X media Cultivars:           
Berryhilli                        Berryhill Yew
Dark Green Spreader               Dark Green Spreader Yew
                                  
Densiformis                       Dense Yew
Hatfieldii                        Hatfield Yew
Hicksii                           Hicks Yew
Nigra                             Nigra
Tauntonii                         Tauntonii
                                  
Thuja occidentalis Cultivars (Arborviate):
Danica                            Danica
Holmstrup                         Holmstrup
Little gem                        Little gem
Nigra                             Wintergreen
Techny                            Techny
Thuja plicata                     Giant arborviate
Tsuga canadenis                   Canadian hemlock
Wareana                           Siberian
Woodwardii                        Woodward
                                  
B. microphylla var. koreana cultivars:
Sunnyside                         Sunnyside box
Winter beauty                     Winter beauty box
Wintergreen                       Wintergreen box
                                  
B. microphylla X B sempervirens hybrid cultivars:
Green gem                         Green gem box
Green mountain                    Green mountain box
Green velvet                      Green velvet box
 
(Ord. 94-29, 10-26-1994)
7-1-13: BERMS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to control the construction
and use of manmade berms, and thereby to protect the public interest through
the control of storm water drainage within the village.
   B.   Applicability Of Regulations: These regulations shall apply to all
lands within the corporate limits of the village. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 2-28-2001)
   C.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, a "berm" shall be defined
as a manmade earthen mound which:
      1.   Exceeds eighteen inches (18") in height above the adjacent ground
surface, and
      2.   Occupies more than one hundred (100) square feet of surface area, or
      3.   Obstructs any overland storm water drainage flow pattern. (Ord.
2001-O-04, 3-28-2001)
   D.   Permit Required: No construction of a berm or series of berms shall
commence until an application for a permit has been applied for and a permit
issued. Such application shall include a recent topographic survey of the
property, including the area one hundred feet (100') beyond the property
boundaries, with one foot (1') contours, showing existing structures, existing
underground utilities (i.e., sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water main, etc.),
existing drainage patterns, existing property lines and easement lines,
existing trees and vegetation limits, proposed berm location, proposed contours
at one foot (1') minimum, proposed drainage patterns, a typical section of the
berm, proposed landscaping, the name and address of the property owner, and
erosion control details and specifications. The plans shall be signed and
sealed by a professional engineer licensed in the state of Illinois. The
application and accompanying materials shall be reviewed by the village
engineer prior to the issuance of a permit.
   E.   Requirements: All berms shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   The berm shall be constructed in accordance with the provisions of
section 9-115.1 of the Illinois highway code 1 .
      2.   Berms shall not be constructed within existing easements. However,
an easement may be established for the specific purpose of defining and
containing the berm. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 2-28-2001; amd. Ord. 2001-O-04, 3-28-
2001)
      3.   The toe of the berm shall be a minimum of five feet (5') from any
property line, except in cases where the berm is a continuation of an existing
berm constructed before the enactment of this section, in which case the
setback from the property line shall be the same as the existing berm. However,
in no case shall a berm be constructed that violates any other provision of
this section. (Ord. 2005-O-03, 1-26-2005)
      4.   All berms shall have a maximum slope of four feet (4') horizontal to
one foot (1') vertical.
      5.   All berms shall be designed and constructed in conformance with the
terms of the village watershed development ordinance, section
12-1-1 et seq., as amended, of this code.
      6.   Berms shall not modify the existing drainage patterns and shall not
create additional runoff of storm water to adjacent properties.
      7.   All landscaping shall conform to the provisions of section
7-1-12 et seq., as amended, of this chapter.
   F.   Nuisance Declared: The corporate authorities hereby declare that the
construction, maintenance or allowance of any berm that does not conform to the
regulations set forth herein shall constitute a public nuisance and shall be
subject to abatement as prescribed in section
4-6-3, as amended, of this code. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 2-28-2001; amd. Ord. 2001-O-
04, 3-28-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. 605 ILCS 5/9-115.1.
7-1-14: LIMITATION ON CONSTRUCTION HOURS:
   A.   General Construction And Carpentry: There shall be no outdoor
construction or carpentry activities generating noise at any time other than
the following:
 
Monday through Friday        7:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M.
Saturday                     8:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M.
Sunday and national holidays 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.
 
Construction activity for emergencies may be allowed during the restricted time
periods only upon issuance of a permit by the building commissioner.
   B.   Operation Of Heavy Construction Equipment, Trucks Of Class D And Above
Registration, Excavation And Demolition: There shall be no operation of heavy
construction equipment, or excavation or demolition activities involving the
use of excavating or earthmoving equipment including loaders, backhoes,
jackhammers, or similar equipment on Sunday or national holidays or at any time
other than the following:
 
Monday through Friday 7:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M.
Saturday              8:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M.
 
Construction activity for emergencies may be allowed during the restricted time
periods only upon issuance of a permit by the building commissioner.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Violation of this section shall constitute a public
nuisance affecting the peace and safety of the public, and shall be subject to
abatement and applicable penalties as set forth in title 4, chapter 6 of this
code. (Ord. 2001-O-21, 10-24-2001)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2093.gif]
 
(1988 Code)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2095.gif]
 
(Ord. 2007-O-05, 4-25-2007)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Codes Adopted By Reference
7-2-2: Construction Regulations
7-2-2-1: International Residential Building Code (IRC)
7-2-2-2: International Building Code (IBC)
7-2-2-3: Accessibility Standards
7-2-3: National Electrical Code
7-2-4: Water Well Codes
7-2-5: Plumbing Code
7-2-6: Sewage Disposal
7-2-7: National Fire Prevention Code
7-2-8: National Mechanical Code
7-2-9: ICC National Property Maintenance Code
7-2-10: Cross Connection Control
7-2-1: CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The previously published books or pamphlets described and referred to in this
chapter and the regulations and standards contained therein or in the described
portions thereof, modified in some cases as noted herein, are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this title. In the event of a conflict between
this title, or any part thereof, and such regulations and standards adopted by
reference, the provisions of this title shall govern and prevail. (Ord. 81-15,
7-22-1981)
7-2-2: CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
7-2-2-1: INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE (IRC):
   A.   Code Adopted: Rules and regulations for construction, alteration,
repair and conversion of buildings for residential purposes, the International
Residential Code, 2021 Edition, published by the International Code Council
(ICC), are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this title as the
rules and regulations governing the construction of single-family residential
buildings and accessory buildings and other structures in the village. It shall
be unlawful for any person to construct or alter, or cause to be constructed or
altered, any building or structure in the village in violation of or without
complying with those rules and regulations. At least three (3) copies of said
pamphlet have been filed in the office of the village clerk for use and
examination by the public at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date
hereof.
   B.   Amendments To IRC Code:
   Section 301.C. Pressure Treated Wood Foundations is deleted in its entirety.
   (Ord. 81-15, 7-22-1981)
   Concrete Work:
   Section 304. H.2(a) Delete the following:
      "except that masonry veneer on frame and solid masonry walls shall be 10
inches deep by 20 inches wide."
   Substitute the following:
      "except that spread footings for foundation walls supporting frame or
masonry bearing walls shall be 10 inches deep by 20 inches wide."
   Section 304. J. 2.(b) Delete the following:
      "and one-story wood frame structures without basements,".
   Section 304. J. 2.(c) Delete the entire section.
   Section 304. J. 2.(d) Delete the entire section and substitute the
following:
      "All other walls 10 inches minimum and reinforced with two #4 steel
reinforcing bars running continuously at both the top and the bottom of the
walls. Steel reinforcing bars shall be lapped a minimum of 40 bar diameters.
The bottom reinforcing bars may be placed in the footing in lieu of the bottom
of the foundation walls."
(Ord. 79-04, 7-25-1979; amd. Ord. 2022-O-19, 9-18-2022)
7-2-2-2: INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE (IBC):
Effective upon the passage and publication in pamphlet form of the ordinance
codified herein, the ICC International Building Code, 2021 Edition, be and is
hereby adopted by reference in the village. (Ord. 94-04, 4-27-1994; amd. Ord.
2022-O-19, 9-18-2022)
7-2-2-3: ACCESSIBILITY STANDARDS:
The rules and regulations contained in the Illinois Accessibility Standards as
amended and printed by the state of Illinois are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this title as the rules and regulations governing facilities
for the disabled in all "public buildings" as defined in said Illinois
Accessibility Standards and other applicable Illinois statutes, in the village.
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or alter, or cause to be
constructed or altered, any public building in the village in violation of or
without complying with those rules and regulations. (Ord. 80-03, 3-26-1980;
amd. Ord. 2022-O-19, 9-18-2022)
7-2-3: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
The rules and regulations of the National Electrical Code (NEC), published by
the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), 2017 Edition, be and is hereby
adopted by reference in the village. Anything in this code to the contrary
notwithstanding, all interior wiring shall be in electrical metallic tubing or
rigid metal conduit. All residences shall have a minimum two hundred (200)
ampere service. (Ord. 98-07, 3-25-1998; amd. Ord. 2022-O-19, 9-18-2022)
7-2-4: WATER WELL CODES:
The rules and regulations set forth in the pamphlet entitled "Illinois State
Water Well Construction Code", November 1973, and in the pamphlet entitled
"Illinois State Water Well Pump Installation Code", November 1973, printed by
and available from the Illinois department of public health, 421 North County
Farm Road, Wheaton, IL 60187, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this title as the rules and regulations governing the construction,
installation, alteration, or repair of wells and water supply systems in the
village. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, alter, or
repair, or cause to be constructed, installed, altered, or repaired, any well
or water supply system in the village in violation of or without complying with
those rules and regulations. At least three (3) copies of said pamphlets have
been filed in the office of the village clerk for use and examination by the
public at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date hereof. (Ord. 84-
02, 3-28-1984)
7-2-5: PLUMBING CODE:
   A.   Code Adopted: Except as stated in subsections B and C of this section,
the rules and regulations contained in the "Illinois State Plumbing Code", 2014
Edition, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this title as the
rules and regulations governing the construction, installation, alteration, or
repair of plumbing in the village. It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct, install, alter or repair, or cause to be constructed, installed,
altered, or repaired, any plumbing in the village in violation of or without
complying with these rules and regulations.
   B.   Approved Materials: Approved materials for water distribution pipe in
section 890, appendix A, 77 Illinois administrative code are limited to brass
pipe, copper/copper alloy pipe, copper/copper alloy tubing, galvanized steel
pipe, welded copper water tube and solder.
   C.   Water Service Pipe: Approved materials for water service pipe in
section 890, appendix A, 77 Illinois administrative code are limited to brass
pipe, cast iron (ductile iron) water pipe, copper/copper alloy pipe, copper/
copper alloy tubing, galvanized steel pipe, welded copper water tube and
solder.
   D.   Water Conservation Regulations: After the effective date hereof, only
the following water efficient plumbing fixtures may be installed in any new
construction or in any repair or replacement of fixtures or trim. The following
maximum flow rates are based upon a pressure at the fixture of sixty (60) psi:
 
Fixtures                        Maximum Flow
Water closets, tank type        1.6 gallons per flush
Water closets, flushometer type 1.6 gallons per flush
Urinals, tank type              1.0 gallon per flush
Urinals, flushometer type       1.0 gallon per flush
Showerheads                     2.5 gpm
Lavatory, sink faucets          2.2 gpm
 
(Ord. 98-07, 3-25-1998; amd. Ord. 99-12, 6-23-1999; Ord. 2022-O-19, 9-18-2022)
7-2-6: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Rules And Regulations Adopted: The rules and regulations contained in
the pamphlet entitled "Lake County board of health ordinance article V,
regulation of individual sewage disposal systems and registration of private
sewage disposal system contractors", printed by and available from the Lake
County health department, 3010 Grand Avenue, Waukegan, IL 60085, are hereby
adopted and made a part of this title as the rules and regulations governing
the construction, installation, alteration or repair of septic tanks, sink
drains, grease traps or sewage disposal systems in the village. It shall be
unlawful for any person to construct, install, alter or repair, or cause to be
constructed, installed, altered, or repaired, any septic tank, sink drain,
grease trap or sewage disposal system in the village in violation of or without
complying with those rules and regulations. At least three (3) copies of said
pamphlet have been filed in the office of the village clerk for use and
examination by the public at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date
hereof.
   B.   Privies Prohibited: Privies of whatever kind are prohibited. (Ord. 60-
09, 5-12-1960; amd. Ord. 78-07, 5-24-1978)
7-2-7: NATIONAL FIRE PREVENTION CODE:
As required by the Libertyville Fire Protection District, as amended from time
to time.
   A.   An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be required as follows:
      1.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in
this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
                                 The use of either or both: a) fire resistive
                                 construction and b) fire alarm, fire
                                 detecting, or fire extinguishing equipment
ALTERNATIVE FIRE PROTECTION:     (other than an automatic fire sprinkler
                                 system) to reduce the risk of personal injury
                                 and property damage from fire and the spread
                                 of fire.
                                 An automatic fire sprinkler system meeting the
AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM: applicable National Fire Protection
                                 Association ("NFPA") standard or standards set
                                 forth in subsection A3 of this section.
                                 The BOCA national building code, 1993, adopted
BUILDING CODE:                   by ordinance 94-04 and amended by exhibit A of
                                 ordinance 94-04 or any subsequent edition
                                 adopted by the village in the future.
                                 Any alterations to an existing building that
                                 affects only such existing building's
                                 appearance. Interior cosmetic improvements
                                 shall include, but not be limited to,
                                 painting, wallpapering, floor coverings, and
                                 nonbearing movable wall partitions. Exterior
COSMETIC IMPROVEMENT:            cosmetic improvements shall include, but not
                                 be limited to, new signs, painting,
                                 architectural trim, and repair or replacement
                                 of facades, windows, doors and roof coverings.
                                 The addition of a rain roof to the structure
                                 is not included in the cosmetic improvement
                                 and will be treated as an addition to the
                                 building.
                                 The floor area enclosed and bounded by
                                 firewalls, fire barriers, or exterior walls of
FIRE AREA:                       a building to restrict the spread of fire.
                                 Firewalls will not be considered as separating
                                 the building to under the required square foot
                                 area needed to require sprinklers.
 
      2.   Conflicts: To the greatest extent possible, the provisions of this
section shall be construed to be consistent with, and not in conflict with, the
provisions of any other law or ordinance, including the provisions of the
building code, to the end that all such provisions may be given their fullest
application. However, in case of any conflict between this section and the
provisions of the building code, the provisions of this section shall control.
The resolution of any of the above conflicts shall be in the sole determination
and discretion of the village of Green Oaks building commissioner.
      3.   NFPA Standards: All automatic fire sprinkler systems shall be
designed, installed and maintained in compliance with the following referenced
standards as determined by the director of the fire prevention bureau to be
applicable:
         a.   NFPA 13: The 2002 edition of the National Fire Protection
Association's (NFPA) "Standard For The Installation Of Sprinkler Systems".
         b.   NFPA 13D: The 2002 edition of the National Fire Protection
Association's (NFPA) "Standard For The Installation Of Sprinkler Systems In
One- And Two-Family Dwellings And Manufactured Homes".
         c.   NFPA 13R: The 2002 edition of the National Fire Protection
Association's (NFPA) "Standard For The Installation Of Sprinkler Systems In
Residential Occupancies Up To And Including Four Stories In Height".
         d.   NFPA 14: The 2003 edition of the National Fire Protection
Association's (NFPA) "Standard For The Installation Of Standpipes And Hose
Systems".
         e.   NFPA 20: The 2003 edition of the National Fire Protection
Association's (NFPA) "Standard For The Installation Of Stationary Pumps For
Fire Protection".
         f.   NFPA 25: The 2002 edition of the National Fire Protection
Association's (NFPA) "Standard For The Inspection, Testing, And Maintenance Of
Water Based Fire Protection Systems".
         g.   NFPA 72: The 2002 edition of the National Fire Protection
Association's (NFPA) national fire alarm code.
Every reference to an NFPA standard in this section shall be deemed to refer to
the edition of such standard set forth in this subsection.
      4.   New Buildings:
         a.   When And Where Required: Except as provided in subsections A4b,
A4c and A6 of this section, for all new buildings an automatic fire sprinkler
system shall be required throughout all areas. A residential building shall be
considered "new" when: 1) a building is built where no building stands; or 2)
more than seventy five percent (75%) of an existing building is a
reconstruction work area due to extensive alterations.
         b.   Alternative Fire Protection For New Buildings: When the building
commissioner makes a written determination, based on factors such as building
size, building construction type, location of the building on the property, and
the availability or appropriateness of water as an extinguishing agent, that
the public health, safety, welfare, and the lives and property of individuals
will be adequately safeguarded by alternative fire protection to be provided
pursuant to specific plans approved and incorporated as part of such written
determination, then, on condition that such alternative fire protection is
provided, an automatic fire sprinkler system shall not be required pursuant to
this subsection A4.
         c.   Exception: Notwithstanding subsections A4a and A4b of this
section, neither an automatic fire sprinkler system nor alternative fire
protection shall be required for any accessory structure as defined in the
village of Green Oaks' zoning ordinance.
      5.   Existing Buildings:
         a.   Increases In Fire Areas Of Existing Buildings:
            (1)   Currently Sprinklered Buildings: Except as provided in
subsection A6 of this section, when any existing building that is classified in
a use group that would, if newly constructed, be required to have an automatic
fire sprinkler system pursuant to subsection A4 of this section and is
protected by an automatic fire sprinkler system, is added to, remodeled, or
altered in any manner that increases the fire areas of the building, regardless
of the cost or amount of increase in fire areas, the additional fire areas
shall also be protected by an automatic fire sprinkler system.
            (2)   Alternative Fire Protection For Existing Buildings: When the
building commissioner makes a written determination, based on factors such as
building size, building construction type, location of the building on the
property, the availability or appropriateness of water as an extinguishing
agent, the size of a new addition, percentage of remodeling or alterations, and
the change in use group classification, that the public health, safety and
welfare and the lives and property of individuals will be adequately
safeguarded by alternative fire protection to be provided pursuant to specific
plans approved and incorporated as part of such written determination, then, on
condition that such alternative fire protection is provided, an automatic fire
sprinkler system shall not be required pursuant to this section.
      6.   Public Utility Electrical Rooms, Buildings And Vaults: Any new
electrical equipment room, building or vault that is installed, serviced,
secured and maintained by a public utility company that is regulated by the
Illinois commerce commission and that complies with all of the conditions of
subsections A6a through A6e of this section shall not be required to install an
automatic fire sprinkler system pursuant to this section.
         a.   An alternative fire suppression system approved by the village of
Green Oaks building inspector shall be installed in the electrical equipment
room, building or vault.
         b.   An automatic fire detection system approved by the director of
the fire prevention bureau that meets the requirements of NFPA 72 shall be
installed in the electrical equipment room, building or vault; provided,
however, that the fire and trouble alarm signal shall be transmitted to the
fire alarm control panel.
         c.   The electrical equipment room, building or vault shall be
constructed with walls, floors and ceilings that have a minimum of a one hour
fire resistive rating.
         d.   All doors to or within the electrical equipment room, building or
vault shall have a minimum of a one hour fire rated door assembly with self-
closing devices, and any other openings or penetrations into this room,
building, or vault shall be protected with a minimum of a one hour fire rated
assembly.
         e.   A portable fire extinguisher, with a minimum rating of 2A40BC,
shall be installed inside the electrical room, building, or vault within ten
feet (10') of each exit and one shall also be provided on the exterior of the
room or vault at the entrance door.
      7.   Supervision Of Systems: Every automatic fire sprinkler system,
except single-family residential systems regulated by the building code,
installed within the village, whether or not such system is required by this
section, shall be electronically supervised by an approved addressable fire
alarm system located in the riser room. If such area is not accessible from the
exterior of the building, the fire alarm control panel shall be located in a
location approved by the director of the fire prevention bureau. Every
automatic fire sprinkler system installed within the village, whether or not
such system is required by this section, shall have a direct connection to the
fire department dispatch center meeting the requirements of NFPA 72 for remote
stations and shall be transmitted via the village radio system. A sprinkler
system for only local protection and one which does not have electronic
supervision, will not be required to transmit a signal to the dispatch center.
Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, when the fire marshal makes a
written determination that the public health, safety and welfare and the lives
and property of individuals will be adequately safeguarded, based on factors
such as number of sprinkler needs or size of the protected area, if no
electronically supervised fire alarm control panel system is installed, then no
such system shall be required.
      8.   Maintenance: Every automatic fire sprinkler system installed within
the village, whether or not such system is required by this section, shall be
maintained according to the requirements of NFPA 25.
      9.   Residential Sprinkler System:
         a.   Where Required: Sprinkler protection will be provided within the
garage where the garage is attached to the structure.
         b.   Monitoring: A horn/strobe or a bell/strobe will be required on
the exterior of the structure at the garage. This will be activated by the
sprinkler flow switch. (Ord. 2009-O-03, 2-25-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-O-19, 9-18-
2022)
7-2-8: NATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE:
Effective upon the passage and publication in pamphlet form of the ordinance
codified herein, the International Code Council (ICC) International Mechanical
Code, 2021 Edition, be and is hereby adopted by reference in the village. (Ord.
94-04, 4-27-1994; amd. Ord. 2022-O-19, 9-18-2022)
7-2-9: ICC NATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
Effective upon the passage and publication in pamphlet form of the ordinance
codified herein, the International Code Council (ICC) National Property
Maintenance Code, 2021 Edition, be and is hereby adopted by reference in the
village. (Ord. 94-04, 4-27-1994; amd. Ord. 2022-O-19, 9-18-2022)
7-2-10: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL:
   A.   All plumbing installed within the village shall be installed in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code
890. That, if, in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, or in the
judgment of the building commissioner or the village, an approved prevention
device is necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the
building commissioner will give notice to the water customer to install such an
approved device immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense,
install such an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance
with the Illinois plumbing code, Illinois environmental protection agency and
all applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of
such approved devices upon installation and as required by the Illinois
plumbing code, Illinois environmental protection agency and local regulations.
   B.   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or
permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the
village may enter the supply or distribution system of said municipality,
unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the building
commissioner and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the building commissioner to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years, or
as often as the building commissioner shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five (5) years.
   D.   The approved cross connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of Green Oaks for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and that the building
commissioner or his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system of Green Oaks for the purpose of verifying information
submitted by the customer regarding the required cross connection control
inspection. On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the building commissioner any information which he may request
regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such property. The
refusal of such information, when demanded, shall within the discretion of the
building commissioner, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper
connections as provided in this section.
   E.   The building commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
section is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he
may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored
until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this section, and until a reconnection fee of two hundred dollars
($200.00) is paid to the village. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice
can be effected when the superintendent of water is assured that imminent
danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such
action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
Immediate disconnection without notice to any party, can be effected to prevent
actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply,
provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the building commissioner or the
Illinois environmental protection agency, such action is required to prevent
actual or potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply.
Neither the village, the building commissioner, or its agents or assigns shall
be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost revenues which may
result from termination of said customer's water supply in accordance with the
terms of this section, whether or not said termination was with or without
notice.
   F.   The consumer responsible for back siphoned or back pressured material
or contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system.
   G.   The board of trustees shall, by resolution, promulgate regulations on
cross connection control which shall establish general policies, definitions,
requirements and regulations under which this section shall be administered.
(Ord. 95-24, 8-23-1995)
CHAPTER 3
BUILDING PERMITS AND FEES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Permit Required
7-3-2: Application For Permit
7-3-3: Documents To Accompany Application
7-3-4: Examination And Approval Of Applications And Plans
7-3-5: Action On Permit
7-3-6: Occupancy Permit
7-3-7: Temporary Occupancy Permit; Bond
7-3-8: Fees
7-3-8-1: Examination Of Plans
7-3-8-2: Building Permits; Damage Deposits
7-3-8-3: Copies Of Village Ordinances Relating To Building
7-3-8-4: Impact Fees
7-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No building or structure, or parts or appurtenances thereof, such as water
supply, sewage disposal, plumbing installation and electrical installation in
the village shall be erected, installed, altered, converted, remodeled,
structurally repaired, moved, demolished or changed when the cost of same
exceeds one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or where the effect of same is to
enlarge the capacity or affect the bearing walls of any building or roof
thereof, without a permit having first been secured from the building
commissioner. (Ord. 2011-O-16, 12-21-2011)
7-3-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   All applications for permits shall be made to the building
commissioner.
   B.   Building permit applications, signed by the owner or authorized agent,
shall be in writing on forms provided by building commissioner and shall
require the notarized signature of the owner of the premises affected and the
notarized signature of the architect or contractor in charge of the operations,
if one is employed. All plans for commercial, institutional and industrial
buildings shall require the seal of an architect or engineer. (Ord. 60-09, 5-
12-1960; amd. 1988 Code)
   C.   Permit applications may be amended during the course of the work.
   D.   Alterations and additions after completion require another permit.
(Ord. 60-09, 5-2-1960)
7-3-3: DOCUMENTS TO ACCOMPANY APPLICATION:
The following information shall accompany and be a part of the building permit
application:
   A.   Application Form: Three (3) copies.
   B.   Plan Examination Fee: This fee shall be paid to the village at the time
plans are submitted and shall not be refunded.
   C.   Plat Plan: Three (3) copies (suggested scale 1" = 20' or larger)
including:
      1.   Surveyed property lines.
      2.   Building setback lines.
      3.   Proposed building(s) and/or site improvements.
      4.   Driveway, culvert, walks, patios, etc.
      5.   Septic tank and septic field, and/or sanitary sewer.
      6.   Curtain drains, drain tile lines, ditches, swales, other drainage
improvements.
      7.   Roof and footing drain lines.
      8.   Utility lines; gas, electric, phone.
      9.   Well and/or water main.
      10.   Existing topography - one foot (1') contours.
      11.   Finished grade and topography - one foot (1') contours.
      12.   Elevation(s) of top of foundation(s).
      13.   Location of existing wells, septic systems, drains on adjoining
properties if within seventy five feet (75') of the subject site.
      14.   Existing trees four inches (4") in diameter or greater - indicate
which trees are to be removed and/or preserved.
   D.   Building Plans: Three (3) complete sets including:
      1.   Foundation and floor plans - 1/4 inch.
      2.   Elevations - 1/4 inch.
      3.   Typical wall section(s) - 1/2 inch min.
      4.   Stair section(s) - 1/2 inch min.
      5.   Fireplace section(s) - 1/2 inch min.
      6.   Electrical plan and outlet and fixture schedule.
      7.   HVAC (heating) plan - 1/4 inch.
      8.   Light and ventilation schedule.
      9.   Description of materials (FHA form #2005 or equivalent).
   E.   Septic Review: One copy of an approved Lake County health department
septic permit must also be submitted to the village for all work involving any
new, enlarged or modified septic system. The septic permit plot plan shall be
submitted to the village for examination prior to submission to the health
department to ensure conformance with all other applicable village standards
and codes.
   F.   Flood Insurance Permit: One copy of all applicable federal and state
permits as required by section 60.3(d) of the national flood insurance program
regulations.
   G.   Township, County And State Permit: One copy of any required township,
county or state permit for the use of, access to or drainage onto any township,
county or state road or right of way. (Ord. 81-02, 1-28-1981; amd. 1988 Code)
7-3-4: EXAMINATION AND APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS AND PLANS:
The building commissioner shall examine all applications and plans within a
reasonable period of time to determine whether the proposed construction or
alteration will comply with the ordinance provisions relative thereto. Upon
approval, one set of plans shall be returned to the applicant with a permit,
and the others shall be retained by the building commissioner. No permit shall
be issued until after approval of the plans. All building permit fees shall be
paid prior to issuance of a permit. (Ord. 60-09, 5-2-1960; amd. 1988 Code)
7-3-5: ACTION ON PERMIT:
   A.   A permit shall be denied if plans or proposed work do not conform to
requirements of this title, or other pertinent laws and ordinances. Denial with
reasons shall be given, in writing, upon request.
   B.   If proposed work conforms to requirements of this title and other
pertinent laws and ordinances, a permit shall be issued, in writing, to proceed
with work, returning one set of plans and specifications, endorsed by the
building commissioner, to be kept on the job at all times.
   C.   A permit placard is to be furnished with the permit or as the permit
itself, which is to remain conspicuously posted on the premises during the
course of work. (Ord. 60-09, 5-12-1960)
   D.   A permit lapses if a substantial start is not made in six (6) months,
and expires after twelve (12) months unless extended. (Ord. 2001-O-13, 7-25-
2001)
7-3-6: OCCUPANCY PERMIT:
   A.   Whenever a permit for the construction or major renovation or repair of
a structure has been issued, it shall not be occupied or used by any person
except for the purpose of completing work under a building permit until an
occupancy permit or a temporary occupancy permit has been issued.
   B.   An occupancy permit shall not be issued for a new building or where
there has been any construction which changes, establishes or affects the
grading or drainage of the lot for which the permit is issued until the
applicant has deposited with the building commissioner a certificate of grading
and drainage accompanied by an as built topographical survey of the building
and site. The certificate shall be prepared by a qualified engineer showing the
drainage and certifying that it complies with the grading requirements of the
permitted work and drainage plan for the area.
   C.   An occupancy permit or certificate of completion is to be issued by the
building commissioner when an inspection following completion of the work shows
that all construction is in compliance with this title and the permit, and a
satisfactory certificate of grading and drainage has been received. (Ord. 91-
07, 8-21-1991)
7-3-7: TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY PERMIT; BOND:
A temporary occupancy permit may be issued for a building or portion thereof if
the code official determines that the building or portion thereof complies with
the requirements for temporary occupancy as set forth in the one and two family
dwelling code, as adopted by the village and amended from time to time, and
applicant for such temporary occupancy permit satisfies all of the bonding
requirements for such temporary occupancy. (Ord. 2001-O-20, 9-26-2001)
7-3-8: FEES:
7-3-8-1: EXAMINATION OF PLANS:
   A.   The fees set forth, from time to time, by resolution of the corporate
authorities for the examination of plans shall be paid to the village at the
time plans are submitted to the village for examination, and shall not be
refunded 1 .
   B.   In the event a structure or portion of a structure requiring a permit
under this Code is wholly or partially constructed without a permit being
issued therefor, the fee for the after-the-fact permit shall be two hundred
percent (200%) of the fee then established for the permit if the structure or
improvement had been obtained prior to commencement of construction or
improvement. (Ord. 92-28, 11-25-1992; amd. Ord. 2023-O-14, 7-26-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See resolution 92-R-5 attached to ordinance 92-28 on file in the office of
  the village clerk for schedule of fees.
7-3-8-2: BUILDING PERMITS; DAMAGE DEPOSITS:
The fees set forth, from time to time, by resolution of the corporate
authorities for building permits shall be paid to the village prior to the
issue of a building permit. The square footage used to calculate various fees
shall be based on the outside dimensions of the building or structure. All
applications for a building permit for a principal building or a permit to
place fill upon or remove fill from a lot shall be accompanied by a cash bond
or approved letter of credit, to be deposited with the village treasurer, to
indemnify the village against damage to roads, ditches, culverts, etc. The
amount of the bond or letter of credit shall be as set forth, from time to
time, by resolution of the corporate authorities. The village shall have the
right to use all or part of the deposit as may be necessary to return the said
roads, ditches, culverts, etc., to their original condition if found by the
village to have been damaged by the applicant or his agents or contractors. Any
unused portion of the deposit shall be refunded to applicant. (Ord. 92-28, 11-
25-1992)
7-3-8-3: COPIES OF VILLAGE ORDINANCES RELATING TO BUILDING 1 :
For copies of village ordinances relating to building, the following fees per
copy, plus postage, are established:
Building code              $ 25.00
Electrical code            15.75
Water well code            6.00
Plumbing code              6.00
Septic systems regulations 3.00
Fire prevention code       9.00
Zoning ordinance           45.00
Zoning map                 20.00
Subdivision regulations    25.00
 
(Ord. 2002-O-02, 2-27-2002)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section
  1-9-6 of this code.
7-3-8-4: IMPACT FEES:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to establish an impact fee
which will, in part, offset the expenses and costs to the village which are
inherent in expanding the services and infrastructure of the village, and which
arise as a result of the increase in population and service needs caused by the
construction of new residences and commercial or industrial buildings within
the village.
   B.   Impact Fees Created: There is hereby created a building impact fee to
be paid by the applicant at the time of issuance of any building permit in the
village for any structure. Applicants for accessory building and similar
structure permits in residential districts where principal structures are
already in existence shall not be required to pay a building impact fee. (Ord.
88-09, 4-27-1988)
   C.   Impact Fee Rates: The building impact fee shall be computed upon the
basis of the size of the building and the type or use of the building as
provided in the following schedule:
 
Single-family residences      $0.15 per square foot
Office, industrial, warehouse 0.50 per square foot
Retail                        0.50 per square foot
 
   (Ord. 97-05, 4-23-1997)
   D.   Collection Of Fees: The building commissioner shall collect the
building impact fees herein established at the time of issuance of the building
permit and the building impact fee shall be in addition to all other fees and
charges provided for by the ordinances of the village. (Ord. 88-09, 4-27-1988)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
7-4-1: Applicability Of Provisions
7-4-2: Enforcement
7-4-3: Duties Of Building Commissioner
7-4-4: Variations
7-4-5: Violations
7-4-6: Penalties
7-4-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The requirements of this chapter apply to the administration and enforcement of
this title, other pertinent ordinances and laws applicable to any regulated
building, structure, part or appurtenance thereof. (1988 Code)
7-4-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The building commissioner shall make or cause to be made such inspections as
are necessary to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this title, and to
make any tests or examinations of materials or methods to be used for the
purpose of seeing that they comply with the provisions of this title. (1988
Code)
7-4-3: DUTIES OF BUILDING COMMISSIONER:
In addition to enforcing the regulations of this title, the building
commissioner shall have the following administrative duties and authority:
   A.   Administration of this title and other applicable ordinances and state
laws.
   B.   Keep careful, systematic records of the business and work of office,
including permit applications, survey plats and building plot plans, all
construction plans and specifications, copies of permits and certificates
issued, affidavits and certificates received, a record of inspections, copies
of notices and orders issued and reports of tests made.
   C.   Keep all plans and specifications, survey plats and building plot
plans, and all other documents or correspondence in a permanent file.
   D.   Make inspections, and for that purpose may enter buildings, structures
and premises.
   E.   Stop by written order work being done contrary to the building permit
or this title.
   F.   Revoke, by writing, a permit or approval issued contrary to this title
or based upon a false statement or misrepresentation in the application.
   G.   Issue occupation permits and temporary occupation permits.
   H.   Estimate the amount to be deposited in escrow to assure completion of
any work which is incomplete when a temporary occupation permit is issued.
(1988 Code)
7-4-4: VARIATIONS:
It shall be unlawful to vary materially from the submitted plans and
specifications unless such variations are submitted in an amended plan to the
building commissioner and approved by him. (Ord. 60-09, 5-12-1960)
7-4-5: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, owning, occupying or using any property in
the village to violate, cause to be violated, disobey, omit, neglect or refuse
to comply with or to resist the enforcement of any of the provisions of this
title, including provisions adopted by reference, or to use or occupy any
building or premises not in compliance with said provisions. (Ord. 60-09, 5-12-
1960)
7-4-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this title, including provisions
adopted by reference, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Any person who shall continue work in violation of a stop order of the
building commissioner shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each day on which any work
in violation of such stop order is done. (Ord. 60-09, 5-12-1960; amd. 1988
Code; Ord. 2001-O-05, 3-28-2001)
CHAPTER 5
NUMBERING BUILDINGS AND LOTS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Numbering Required
7-5-2: Assignment Of Numbers; Maps
7-5-3: Determination Of Numbering By Building Commissioner
7-5-4: Display Of Numbers
7-5-1: NUMBERING REQUIRED:
All structures or other property abutting on any street or avenue shall be
numbered in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, under the
supervision and direction of the building commissioner of the village. (Ord.
83-02, 2-3-1983)
7-5-2: ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS; MAPS:
Numbers are hereby assigned to lots and parcels of record as set forth on the
maps referred to and made a part of this chapter by reference, designated as
exhibit A through exhibit G, inclusive. Said maps shall be and remain on file
in the office of the building commissioner. The following ordinances provide
for assignment of numbers, with accompanying maps:
83-02                                        Exhibits A – F
83-04                                        Exhibit E
84-12 (Cambridge estates subd.)              Exhibit F
86-03 (Saddle Hill unit #2, subd.)           Exhibit F
89-28 (Saddle Hill #3 subd.)                 Exhibit G
93-02 (Forest Glen subd.)                    Exhibit A
(Viking Park #2 and #3 subd.)                Exhibit B
93-26 (Lake Trail Bus. Park subd.)           Exhibit A
93-32 (Reigate Woods subd.)                  Exhibit A
94-03 (Lucky Lake subd.)                     Exhibit A
94-12 (Forest Lake of Green Oaks subd.)      Exhibit A
94-22 (Lake Somerset subd.)                  Exhibit A
94-25 (Polo Park Business Center subd.)      Exhibit A
95-17 (Prairie Ridge subd.)                  Exhibit A
95-20 (Glenmore Woods subd.)                 Exhibit A
95-23 (Forest Cove resubd.)                  Exhibit A
95-33 (Greenbriers subd.)                    Exhibit A
95-35 (Green Oaks distribution center subd.) Exhibit A
95-36 (Glenmore Woods subd.)                 Exhibit A
2001-O-11 (Creekside subd.)                  Exhibit A
2002-O-06 (Cedar Glen subd.)                 Exhibit A
 
(Ord. 83-02, 2-3-1983; amd. Ord. 83-04, 4-27-1983; Ord. 84-12, 1-23-1985; Ord.
86-03, 7-2-1986; Ord. 89-28, 11-22-1989; Ord. 93-02, 1-27-1993; Ord. 93-26, 7-
28-1993; Ord. 93-32, 12-1-1993; Ord. 94-03, 2-23-1994; Ord. 94-12, 8-24-1994;
Ord. 94-22, 9-14-1994; Ord. 94-25, 9-28-1994; Ord. 95-17, 5-24-1995; Ord. 95-
20, 7-19-1995; Ord. 95-23, 8-23-1995; Ord. 95-33, 11-29-1995; Ord. 95-35, 11-
29-1995; Ord. 95-36, 11-29-1995; Ord. 2001-O-11, 7-25-2001; Ord. 2002-O-06, 8-
28-2002)
7-5-3: DETERMINATION OF NUMBERING BY BUILDING COMMISSIONER:
In case of doubt, or where a question arises as to the proper number assigned
to a lot or building, the building commissioner shall decide the question and
fix the number of such lot or building. (Ord. 83-02, 2-3-1983)
7-5-4: DISPLAY OF NUMBERS:
All lots shall display this number in a conspicuous manner 1 . (Ord. 83-02, 2-
3-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-1-9 of this title.
CHAPTER 6
DRAINS AND DRAINAGE STRUCTURES
SECTION:
7-6-1: Definitions
7-6-2: Drainage System Permit Requirements
7-6-3: Maintaining Nuisance Prohibited
7-6-4: Abatement Of Nuisance
7-6-5: Failure To Abate Nuisance
7-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them herein:
LOT OR PARCEL: Includes the area of any street, road or dedicated right of way
adjacent to such lot or parcel, between the roadway surface structure and the
property line of such lot or parcel; provided, however, that any storm sewers
installed in a dedicated road right of way or easement and approved by the
village shall be maintained by the village.
NUISANCE: Includes:
   A.   Causing, maintaining, permitting or creating a condition upon property;
whether by inadvertence, by action or by failure to act; which interrupts,
interferes with, diminishes, prevents, damages or destroys natural drainages or
artificial drainage structures; or
   B.   Keeping or maintaining any premises, lot or parcel in a manner causing
substantial diminution in the function of any drainage, natural or artificial.
(Ord. 85-07, 9-25-1985)
7-6-2: DRAINAGE SYSTEM PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No owner, tenant, lessee and/or occupant of a lot or
parcel may, without first obtaining a permit from the village for the purpose,
alter, change, improve or install a drainage improvement, ditch, drainage
structure or storm sewer in any street, road or dedicated right of way adjacent
to his lot or parcel.
   B.   Supervision By Village Engineer: Before a permit for the alteration,
change, improvement or installation of any drainage improvement, ditch,
structure or storm sewer is issued, the village engineer shall first make a
determination of the correct level, specifications, size, configuration and
design necessary to make such permitted work function at maximum effectiveness
to drain the public right of way and nearby properties in the drainage pattern.
   C.   Issuance By Building Department: Permits for the work described in
subsection A of this section shall be issued by the building department of the
village upon the same terms and conditions as permits for construction of
drainage structures upon lots and parcels owned by the applicant.
   D.   Violation: Any work performed in violation of subsection A of this
section shall be construed to be allowing a nuisance to exist and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to fine as provided in subsection
7-6-5A of this chapter. (Ord. 86-09, 10-22-1986)
7-6-3: MAINTAINING NUISANCE PROHIBITED:
No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises, lot or
parcel shall permit, maintain or keep any nuisance as herein defined thereon.
(Ord. 85-07, 9-25-1985)
7-6-4: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
The owners, tenants, lessees and/or occupants of any lot or parcel within the
village upon which such nuisance is maintained shall abate said nuisance:
   A.   By prompt removal of any debris, obstruction, organic growth,
construction or other causes of interference with drainage; or
   B.   By repair and reconstruction of any artificial drain which has been
damaged, destroyed or otherwise rendered ineffective, in whole or in part.
(Ord. 85-07, 9-25-1985)
7-6-5: FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE:
   A.   Penalty: If said owners, tenants, lessees and/or occupants shall allow
a "nuisance" as herein defined to exist, or shall fail to abate a nuisance
which exists, they and each of them, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which such nuisance is permitted to exist.
(Ord. 85-07, 9-25-1985; amd. Ord. 2001-O-05, 3-28-2001)
   B.   Abatement By Village: Whenever said owners, tenants, lessees and/or
occupants shall fail to abate said nuisance after notice is served upon them by
the village to abate, the village shall be empowered to take action necessary
to abate said nuisance, and the expenses therefor shall be billed to said
owners, tenants, lessees and/or occupants, jointly and severally; and said bill
shall be recoverable along with costs and reasonable attorney fees in an action
at law. (Ord. 85-07, 9-25-1985)
CHAPTER 7
RECAPTURE FEE ORDINANCE
SECTION:
7-7-1: Title
7-7-2: Policy Adopted
7-7-3: Recapture Agreement
7-7-4: Recapture Fee List
7-7-5: Payment Of Fee
7-7-6: Collection Of Funds
7-7-7: Village Control Of Utilities
7-7-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the RECAPTURE FEE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 85-05, 9-25-
1985)
7-7-2: POLICY ADOPTED:
The village board hereby adopts a policy of requiring developers to make sewer
and other utility installations (whenever feasible and reasonable) which will
make such utilities available to owners of parcels nearby and adjacent to those
being served by the proposed installation. (Such requirements may either
provide for larger capacity facilities than might minimally be required for the
developer's owned parcels, or otherwise designing the installation to serve
adjacent areas not owned by the developer.) (Ord. 85-05, 9-25-1985)
7-7-3: RECAPTURE AGREEMENT:
   A.   Agreement With Developer: Whenever the developer of a parcel shall be
required to install sewers or other utilities which are oversized or extended
for the benefit of properties not owned by the developer, the village board may
enter into a recapture agreement to reasonably reimburse the developer for his
expenditures in excess of those required for his own benefit.
   B.   Terms Of Agreement: Each recapture agreement entered into under the
provisions of this chapter shall be negotiated by the village board without
consideration for the existence or terms of any other such recapture
agreements, and shall contain the following provisions:
      1.   No recapture agreement shall extend for a term beyond ten (10) years
from its date.
      2.   The amount to be recaptured from each parcel shall either be set
forth specifically, or shall be determined by a precise formula which can be
used to calculate the specific sum to be recaptured.
      3.   Each parcel required to pay a recapture fee shall be specifically
identified.
      4.   The recapture agreement shall contain a finding that the amount to
be recaptured does not exceed the benefits accruing to the property required to
pay the recapture funds; and that the total amount recaptured is not greater
than the cost of providing the estimated benefits to property not owned by the
developer. (Ord. 85-05, 9-25-1985)
7-7-4: RECAPTURE FEE LIST:
   A.   Preparation By Village Collector: Whenever the village board has
entered into a recapture agreement with a developer, the village collector
shall:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days, determine from the terms of the agreement
the amount of funds to be collected from each parcel of land benefited,
(hereinafter the "recapture fee"); and
      2.   Prepare an official "recapture fee list" of the said parcels setting
forth the recapture fees for each parcel.
   B.   List Submitted To Developer: The recapture fee list shall be submitted
to the developer and to the village board at its next regular meeting for
approval; and after being approved by the village board, shall be recorded by
the village clerk in the office of the recorder of deeds of Lake County along
with a copy of the recapture agreement. (Ord. 85-05, 9-25-1985)
7-7-5: PAYMENT OF FEE:
Whenever application is made to subdivide, or for a permit to install or
construct any buildings or improvements or connect any utilities upon any
parcel listed in any recapture fee list, in addition to all other costs, fees
or requirements provided by ordinance, the applicant shall pay to the village
collector the amount set forth in the recapture fee list before the application
shall be processed. (Ord. 85-05, 9-25-1985)
7-7-6: COLLECTION OF FUNDS:
Whenever any funds are collected by the village collector as provided in any
recapture agreement list, within thirty (30) days thereafter the funds shall be
forwarded to the developer, after deducting therefrom any funds which might
then be due or owing from the developer to the village. (Ord. 85-05, 9-25-1985)
7-7-7: VILLAGE CONTROL OF UTILITIES:
Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, the village shall
have sole ownership and control of all and any portions of the sewer systems or
other utilities which are constructed pursuant to any recapture agreement.
(Ord. 85-05, 9-25-1985)
CHAPTER 8
STORAGE OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS
SECTION:
7-8-1: Authority
7-8-2: Purpose And Intent
7-8-3: Definitions
7-8-4: Regulated Development
7-8-5: Building Plan, Site Plan And Recycling System Plan Review
7-8-1: AUTHORITY:
This Chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted to local governments
in the State by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1. (Ord. 96-12, 6-26-1996)
7-8-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this Chapter is to establish reasonable design standards and
procedures for storage of recyclables within and external to structures: a) in
all new developments; b) in all subdivision applications; and c) for all
building permits for new buildings and alteration to buildings related to a
change in use within the corporate limits and external jurisdiction of the
Village, and further, to promote the public health, safety, and welfare of the
community. These regulations are further intended to:
   A.   Facilitate the mandate of the State which requires Lake County to
implement strategies for the reduction of at least twenty five percent (25%) of
the Municipal waste stream.
   B.   Protect the character and maintain the stability of the community and
surrounding unincorporated areas by requiring adequate space and means to
collect and store recycled materials.
   C.   Facilitate the collection and storage of recyclables by providing
private, on-site areas, facilities, and programs which will encourage recycling
within the residential, commercial, institutional and industrial sectors that
generate waste within the Municipal jurisdiction.
   D.   Protect the public health and safety by requiring the submission of a
recycling plan or site plan as part of the building permit/plan review process
thereby ensuring conformance and integration with all other applicable codes
and ordinances. (Ord. 96-12, 6-26-1996)
7-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
COMMERCIAL RECYCLING PROGRAM: A recycling program which collects wastes which
originate from nonresidential sources.
CUBIC YARD: Unit of measure equivalent to two hundred (200) gallons.
CURBSIDE COLLECTION: A method of collecting source-separated recyclable
materials from the curb or alleyway.
EXTERIOR RECYCLABLE STORAGE AREA: Final collection area for all recyclable
materials. Exterior recyclable storage areas must be external to the occupied
area of a building unit(s) but may exist within the structural shell (i.e.,
loading docks, refuse rooms, etc.).
INTERNAL RECOVERY SYSTEM: The procedures and containers utilized to isolate and
remove recyclables from the occupied areas of a building.
MUNICIPAL WASTE: Garbage, general household, institutional and commercial
waste, industrial lunchroom or office waste, landscape waste and construction
demolition debris (as defined by the Illinois Environmental Protection Act; 415
ILCS 5/3.21).
MUNICIPALLY SPONSORED RECYCLING PROGRAM: A recyclable collection program which
is regulated by contract or franchise and which defines levels and frequency of
recyclable collection service to be provided to the resident.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS (RECYCLABLES): Waste materials that are collected,
separated or processed and used as raw materials or products.
RECYCLING: The series of activities by which materials that would otherwise
remain wastes are collected, separated or processed and used in the form of raw
materials.
RECYCLING PROGRAM: Any program focused on the recovery of materials for use as
raw material. Includes materials captured prior to entering the waste stream or
recovered from the waste stream.
RECYCLING SYSTEM: A system which addresses the needs created by the act of
recycling. System components include, but may not be limited to, recyclable
materials storage containers at the point of generation; equipment and labor
for preparing recyclable materials for collection; and equipment and labor for
transport of recyclable materials to exterior recyclable storage area(s).
SPACE ALLOCATION: The area required to store or hold recyclable materials prior
to final collection.
SPACE PLANNING: The act of identifying components of a recycling system and the
specific requirements of each system element.
SYSTEM PLAN: Detailed abstract of the individual components of a recycling
system. (Ord. 96-12, 6-26-1996)
7-8-4: REGULATED DEVELOPMENT:
All applications for building permits and development permits of any kind for
all new construction and construction related to a change in use of a structure
must be in conformance with the provisions of this Chapter. Any documents or
plans required under the provisions of this Chapter must be submitted at the
time of building permit application or application for subdivision approval,
whichever would occur first.
   A.   Residential Development Serviced By Municipally Sponsored Recycling
Program:
      1.   Single-Family Detached Dwelling Unit:
         a.   Interior Space Allocation: A minimum of three (3) cubic feet
shall be allocated (reserved) for an internal recovery system. This area must
be located so as to facilitate storage of recyclable materials within the
structure and facilitate ease of removal to external collection point.
      2.   Multi-Family Buildings:
         a.   Interior Space Allocation: A minimum of three (3) cubic feet
shall be allocated (reserved) per dwelling unit for an internal recovery
system. This area must be located so as to facilitate storage of recyclable
materials within the structure and facilitate ease of removal to external
collection point.
   B.   Development With No Municipally Sponsored Recycling Program:
      1.   Single-Family Detached Dwellings–Subdivisions:
         a.   Interior Space Allocation: A minimum of three (3) cubic feet
shall be allocated (reserved) for an internal recovery system. This area must
be located so as to facilitate storage of recyclable materials within the
structure and facilitate ease of removal to external collection point.
      2.   Developments Comprised Of Single-Family Attached Dwelling Units:
         a.   Interior Space Allocation: A minimum of three (3) cubic feet
shall be allocated (reserved), per dwelling unit, for an internal recovery
system. This area must be located so as to facilitate storage of recyclable
materials within the structure and facilitate ease of removal to external
collection point.
      3.   Multi-Family Buildings:
         a.   Interior Space Allocation: A minimum of three (3) cubic feet
shall be allocated (reserved), per dwelling unit, for an internal recovery
system. This area must be located so as to facilitate storage of recyclable
materials within the structure and facilitate ease of removal to the exterior
recyclable storage area.
         b.   Exterior Recyclable Storage Area Allocation: The amount of
exterior recyclable storage area allocated per dwelling shall be determined as
follows and shall not be less than the sum of the individual computations:
Number of studio and one-bedroom units x 7 gallons +
Number of two (2) bedroom units x 8 gallons +
Number of three (3) and four (4) bedroom units x 9 gallons =
Total exterior recyclable storage area allocation required.
         c.   Recycling System Plan: A comprehensive recycling system plan
shall be required which includes provisions for an exterior recyclable storage
area and a collection system for recyclable materials generated by the building
(s) occupants.
      4.   Developments Comprised Of A Mix Of Residential Building Types:
         a.   Interior Space Allocation: Interior space allocation shall be
provided for each building and unit in accordance with requirements set out in
subsection B1a, 2a, and 3a above.
         b.   Exterior Recyclable Storage Area Allocation: Exterior recyclable
storage area shall be provided for any multi-family buildings in accordance
with the requirements in subsection B3b above.
         c.   Recycling System Plan: A comprehensive recycling system plan
shall be required which includes provisions for an exterior recyclable storage
area which will service the entire development.
      5.   Commercial, Industrial, And Institutional Uses:
         a.   Interior Space Allocation: The amount of interior space necessary
to comply with the requirements of this Chapter is dependent on the generation
of recyclable materials resultant from activities associated with commercial
recycling programs. Management options shall be addressed in a system plan per
subsection
7-8-5C of this Chapter.
         b.   Exterior Recyclable Storage Area Allocation: The amount of
exterior recyclable storage area necessary to comply with the requirements of
this Chapter is dependent on the volume generation of recyclable materials
derived from commercial recycling programs. Exterior recyclable storage area
options shall be addressed in a recyclable system plan per subsections
7-8-5B and C of this Chapter. (Ord. 96-12, 6-26-1996)
7-8-5: BUILDING PLAN, SITE PLAN AND RECYCLING SYSTEM PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Building Permit Review:
      1.   Single-Family Detached And Attached Dwelling Units: All building
plans for new single-family dwelling units must identify the recycling storage
area provided inside the building per Section
7-8-4 of this Chapter.
      2.   Multi-Family Buildings: All building plans for new multi- family
buildings must identify the recycling storage areas provided inside of the
individual units and the building recyclable material collection and storage
areas per Section
7-8-4 of this Chapter.
      3.   Developments Comprised Of A Mix Of Residential Building Types: All
building plans for buildings containing the above uses shall identify the
recyclable materials storage areas being provided as required for the specific
building type per Section
7-8-4 of this Chapter.
      4.   Commercial, Industrial And Institutional Uses: All building plans
for buildings containing the above uses shall identify all areas associated
with recycling storage, sorting operations, individual work stations, and any
other phases of the recycling activities planned for the building.
   B.   Site Plan Review: A site plan shall be required for those uses listed
in Section
7-8-4 of this Chapter for which exterior storage areas are required. The site
plan must indicate the location and dimensions of the storage area being
provided. The site plan must also indicate how the storage area(s) will be
accessed.
   C.   Recycling System Plan: When a recycling system plan is required, said
plan shall contain the following elements unless specific items are
inappropriate or otherwise not applicable to the use proposed. A statement to
that effect should be included in the plan.
      1.   System Plan Description:
         a.   Identification of materials to be recycled.
         b.   Method of transport from work station to final collection area.
         c.   Collection frequency of recycling service provider.
         d.   Information policy for occupants.
         e.   Point of contact/project coordinator.
         f.   Location and design of collection areas.
      2.   Space Allocation Description:
         a.   Provide an estimate of the amounts of materials that will be
generated.
         b.   Calculate the necessary storage area to be allocated for each
designated material.
      3.   Space Planning:
         a.   Scaled drawings of the interior plan of the building identifying:
            (1)   Space requirements at work stations.
            (2)   Temporary internal recyclable material storage area(s) as
applicable.
         b.   Scaled drawings of the exterior site plan identifying:
            (1)   Location and size of exterior recyclable storage area.
            (2)   Screening of the exterior recyclable storage area.
            (3)   Access path to service the exterior recyclable storage area.
(Ord. 96-12, 6-26-1996)
TITLE 8
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
ZONING PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
8-1-1: Title
8-1-2: Purpose
8-1-3: Interpretation
8-1-4: Separability
8-1-1: TITLE:
This Title shall be known and may be cited as the Zoning Ordinance of the
Village.
8-1-2: PURPOSE:
This Title is adopted for the purpose of:
   A.   Promoting the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience and
general welfare;
   B.   Securing adequate light, pure air and safety from fire and other
dangers;
   C.   Conserving the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
Village;
   D.   Dividing the Village into districts, and restricting and regulating
therein the location, construction, alteration and use of buildings, structures
and land, whether for residence, business or other specified uses;
   E.   Avoiding or lessening congestion in the public streets;
   F.   Preventing the overcrowding of land, through regulating and limiting
the height and bulk of buildings, hereafter erected as related to land area;
   G.   Establishing, regulating and limiting the building or setback lines on
or along streets or other property lines;
   H.   Regulating and limiting the intensity of the use of lot areas, and
regulating and determining the area of open spaces within and surrounding such
buildings;
   I.   Establishing standards to which buildings or structures therein shall
conform;
   J.   Prohibiting uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of the residence or business districts;
   K.   Preventing additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed hereunder;
   L.   Defining and limiting the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided hereinafter; and
   M.   Prescribing penalties for the violation of the provisions of this Title
or any amendment thereto.
8-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this Title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety, morals and welfare.
   B.   Conflicting Laws: Where the regulations imposed by any provisions of
this Title upon:
      1.   The use of land or buildings,
      2.   The bulk of buildings,
      3.   Lot area requirements and
      4.   Yard requirements, are either more restrictive or less restrictive
than comparable regulations for the same district imposed by any other
provision of this Title or of any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which
impose higher standards or requirements shall govern.
   C.   Existing Agreements: This Title is not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant, or other private agreement; provided that where the
regulations of this Title are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
requirements than such easements, covenants, or other private agreements, the
requirements of this Title shall govern.
   D.   Existing Violations: No building, structure or use not lawfully
existing at the time of the effective date hereof, shall become or be made
lawful solely by reason of the adoption of this Title, and to the extent that,
and in any manner that, said unlawful building, structure or use is in conflict
with the requirements of this Title, said building, structure or use remains
unlawful hereunder.
8-1-4: SEPARABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the village board that the several
provisions of this title are separable, in accordance with the following:
   A.   Provisions Of Title: If any court of competent jurisdiction shall
adjudge any provision of this title to be invalid, such judgment shall not
affect any other provision of this title not specifically included in said
judgment.
   B.   Property Application: If any court of competent jurisdiction shall
adjudge invalid the application of any provision of this title to a particular
property, building or other structure, such judgment shall not affect the
application of said provision to any other property, building or structure not
specifically included in said judgment. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-1960)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Rules Of Construction
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
The language set forth in the text of this title shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
   A.   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular;
   B.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future
the present;
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory, while the word "may" is permissive;
   D.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter;
   E.   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of this
title, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition thereof,
and any word appearing in parentheses, directly after a word herein defined,
shall be construed in the same sense as that word; and
   F.   All measured distances expressed in feet shall be to the nearest
integral foot. If a fraction is one-half foot (1/2') or more, the integral foot
next above shall be taken. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-1960)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and terms shall be construed as herein defined:
ACRE: Forty thousand (40,000) square feet as measured within the lot lines. Lot
lines are herein to mean the edge of the road right of way.
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of soil; the growing of crops or plant growth of any
kind, including forestry; the maintenance of nurseries and greenhouses; the
raising of livestock, poultry and incidental structures for carrying out the
above.
AMBULANCE SERVICE, PRIVATE: A facility, operated by a company licensed by the
Illinois Department of Public Health to provide ambulance services, for non-
emergency ambulance dispatch services, the indoor storage of ambulances and
associated supplies, employee training facilities, non-dwelling employee
resting areas, and associated company administrative services.
ASPHALT RECYCLING USES, LARGE SCALE: Uses that manufacture asphaltic pavement
with the principal material component consisting of reclaimed asphaltic
pavement and aggregate occurring on a property in excess of five (5) acres and
may only be allowed in the village II intensive industrial district subject to
the provisions of the II district including all industrial performance
standards and other applicable standards and requirements of the village zoning
ordinance and other ordinances of the village.
BASEMENT: A portion of a building located partly underground, but having not
less than one-half (1/2) its clear floor to ceiling height below the average
grade of the adjoining ground.
BUILDING: Anything constructed for the shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels or movable property of any kind, which is permanently affixed
to the land, and includes walls or other supports for a roof structure.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental to
that of the principal building and customary in connection with that use. An
attached garage to a principal building shall not constitute an accessory
building.
BUILDING COMPLETELY ENCLOSED: A building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space or from other buildings or other structures by a permanent
roof and by exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by windows and normal
entrance or exit doors.
BUILDING COVERAGE: A percentage calculation consisting of that portion of a lot
covered by principal and accessory buildings. For purposes of building coverage
calculations, the building area shall be measured from the outside dimensions
of the building walls or other supports for the roof structure and the lot area
shall include the area bound by the front, side and rear lot lines of the lot
where the building or buildings are located.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the lowest ground surface adjacent
to the structure and the highest point of the underside of the ceiling beams in
case of a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard roof; and to the mean level
of the underside of rafters between eaves and the ridge of a gable, hip or
gambrel roof. Chimneys, spires, towers, elevator penthouses, tanks and similar
projections, but not including signs, shall not be included in calculating the
height. The Building Height standards referenced in the various zoning
districts may be modified as part of an approved Special Use.
BUILDING, MINOR RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY: A significantly subordinate building,
such as a shed, a toolroom, a gazebo, a pergola, an arbor, a greenhouse or a
similar such minor building, which is incidental to a principal residence
building, customary in connection with a residential use, and is fifteen feet
in height or less. The use of such a building shall not function as a garage
for the storage of any vehicles and the construction shall not include a
vehicular connection navigable to a driveway or a street.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A nonaccessory building in which the principal use of the
lot on which it is located is conducted.
BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL: A building which is arranged, designed, used or intended
to be used for residential occupancy by one family.
BUILDING, TEMPORARY: Any building or mobile building not designed to be
permanently located in the place it is, or where it is intended to be placed or
affixed, but excluding mobile homes.
BUSINESS: Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold, or which occupies time, attention, labor and materials, or
where services including temporary sales offices for real estate are offered.
CARDHOLDER: A qualifying patient or a designated caregiver who has been issued
and possesses a valid registry identification card by the department of public
health.
CURB LEVEL: The level of the established curb in front of a building or
structure, measured at the center of such front. Where no curb level has been
established, it shall be deemed to be the established level of the centerline
of the street surface in front of a building or structure, measured at the
centerline of such front.
DESIGNATED CAREGIVER: A person who: a) is at least twenty one (21) years of
age; b) has agreed to assist with a patient's medical use of cannabis; c) has
not been convicted of an excluded offense; and d) assists no more than one
registered qualifying patient with his or her medical use of cannabis.
DWELLING: A residential building, or portion thereof; but not including hotels,
motels, rooming houses, rest homes, tourist homes or trailers.
DWELLING UNIT: A group of rooms constituting all or part of a dwelling, which
are arranged, designed, used or intended for use exclusively as living quarters
for one family, and which includes cooking facilities.
ENCLOSED, LOCKED FACILITY: A room, greenhouse, building, or other enclosed area
equipped with locks or other security devices that permit access only by a
cultivation center's agents or a dispensing organization's agent working for
the registered cultivation center or the registered dispensing organization to
cultivate, store, and distribute cannabis for registered qualifying patients.
FAMILY: One or more persons each related to the other by blood, marriage or
adoption, or a group of not more than three (3) persons not so related,
together with his or their domestic servants, maintaining a common household in
a dwelling unit. A family may include not more than two (2) lodgers, boarders
or permanent guests, whether or not gratuitous.
FLOODPLAIN LAND: Any land defined as either "flood fringe" or "regulatory
floodway" as set forth in section
8-8-5, "Definitions", of this title.
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS: See chapter 8 of this title.
GARAGE, ATTACHED: A fully enclosed structure, or part thereof, used or intended
to be used for the parking and storage of private passenger vehicles, which is
structurally connected to a principal building.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or an accessory portion of the principal
building, including a carport, which is intended for and used to store the
private vehicles of the family resident upon the premises, and in which no
business, service or industry connected directly or indirectly with automotive
vehicles is carried on.
GOVERNING STATUTE: The compassionate use of medical cannabis pilot program act
(public act 098-0122), or any successor legislation.
GROUND FLOOR AREA: The lot area covered by a building measured from the
exterior faces of exterior walls. For principal buildings or principal use
structures, as defined herein, this measurement shall be exclusive of terraces,
breezeways, open porches, carports and garages. For accessory buildings, as
defined herein, these areas shall be included in the ground floor area
measurement.
HABITABLE FLOOR AREA: All those spaces within a building which are defined as a
habitable area in accord with the building code of the village of Green Oaks 1
.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any use or gainful occupation conducted entirely indoors
within a dwelling and any normal accessory building which is a part of that
building and carried on solely by the inhabitants thereof, which use is clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and
does not change the character of the dwelling.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any hard surfaced, manmade area that does not readily
absorb or retain water, including, but not limited to, building roofs, parking
and driveway areas, graveled areas, sidewalks, decks, and patios, and paved
recreation areas, such as aboveground or inground swimming pools that retain
water, but not including water bodies that allow water to run off or to
infiltrate into the ground.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE: A percentage calculation referring to that portion
of a lot covered by impervious surfaces. For purposes of the impervious surface
coverage calculation the lot area shall include the area bound by the front,
side and rear lot lines.
IMPROVEMENT: Any humanmade, immovable item which becomes part of, placed upon
or is affixed to real estate.
KENNEL OR DOG DAYCARE FACILITY, COMMERCIAL: Any lot on which, or building in
which, four (4) or more dogs or any other kind of household pets, at least four
(4) months of age, are kept, boarded for compensation, kept or bred for sale or
for any other purpose.
LIVESTOCK: Alpacas, American bison, camels, cows, donkeys, elk, goats, horses,
llamas, mules, pigs, poultry (chickens, turkeys, ducks, and geese), rabbits,
and sheep.
LODGING ROOM: A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities and with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of
rooms each room shall be counted as one lodging room.
LOT: A parcel of land (whether legally so described or subdivided as 1 or more
lots or parts of lots) occupied by, or intended for occupancy by one principal
building or principal use, and having its principal frontage upon a street.
LOT AREA: The area of horizontal plane bound by the vertical planes through
front, side and rear lot lines. Lot area may include walkway dedications along
the rear and side lot line, but not along the front lot line or side lot lines
abutting a street right of way.
LOT COVERAGE: The impervious surface coverage of a lot.
LOT FRONTAGE: The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a street
and for a corner lot the front shall be the shorter lot boundary along a
street.
LOT LINE: A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership; except that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street, the lot line shall be deemed to be the street line.
LOT LINE, FRONT: That part of a lot which is along an existing private or
dedicated street. The lot line is taken as the property line of the street
right of way except as otherwise defined in this title.
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is, or is
approximately, parallel to the front lot line. If the rear lot line is less
than ten feet (10') in length, or if the lot forms a point at the rear, the
rear lot line shall be deemed to be a line ten feet (10') in length within the
lot, parallel to, and at the maximum distance from, the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line.
MEDICAL CANNABIS CONTAINER: A sealed, traceable, food compliant, tamper
resistant, tamper evident container, or package used for the purpose of
containment of medical cannabis from a cultivation center to a dispensing
organization.
MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER OR CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated
by an organization or business that is registered by the Illinois department of
agriculture to perform necessary activities to provide only registered medical
cannabis dispensing organizations with usable medical cannabis.
MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION, OR DISPENSING ORGANIZATION, OR
DISPENSARY ORGANIZATION OR DISPENSARY: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is registered by the Illinois department of financial and
professional regulation to acquire medical cannabis from a registered
cultivation center for the purpose of dispensing cannabis, paraphernalia, or
related supplies and educational materials to registered qualifying patients.
MEDICAL CANNABIS FACILITY: A medical cannabis cultivation center or a medical
cannabis dispensary.
MEDICAL CANNABIS INFUSED PRODUCT: Food, oils, ointments, or other products
containing usable cannabis that are not smoked.
MOBILE HOME TRAILER: Any vehicle or similar portable structure originally
designed or converted so as to provide living quarters.
NAMEPLATE: A sign indicating the name and address of the building or the name
of an occupant thereof.
NONCONFORMING LEGAL USE OR STRUCTURE: Any lawful use of land or structures, or
any structure, existing at the effective date hereof and located in a zone in
which it would not be permitted as a new use or structure under the terms of
this title.
NONCONFORMING RECORDED LOT: A tract of land, designated on a duly recorded
subdivision plat, or by a duly recorded deed, or by other lawful means which
has less than the minimum lot area or width or other dimension prescribed for
the particular zone in which it is located, and which meets the lot area, width
and other dimensions for the zone in which it was located at the time of such
recording, but was made nonconforming by a subsequent amendment to this title.
If a tract of land which is entitled to a building permit under the terms of
this title, either as a conforming lot or as a nonconforming recorded lot, is
reduced in size by the acquisition of a portion of said tract, by negotiation
or by condemnation, for highway purposes by the Lake County highway department
or by the state highway department, the remainder of said tract shall have the
status of a nonconforming recorded lot.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: One which was legally constructed prior to the
effective date hereof, which would not be permitted as a new structure under
the terms of this title because such structure is not in conformance with the
yard, height, coverage or floor area ratio requirements of the zone in which it
is located. A structure located on a nonconforming recorded lot is not
classified as a nonconforming structure solely because of insufficient lot area
or width, nor shall anything herein be construed to affect those structures
covered in section
8-9-3 of this title.
NONCONFORMING USE: An activity using land or structures or both, legally
established prior to the effective date hereof, which would not be permitted as
a new use in the zone in which it is located under the terms of this title.
PERMANENT OPEN SPACE: That land area within a subdivision which is restricted
by an easement granted to the village for open space purposes only and
including:
   A.   Woodland and wetland protection and conservation areas;
   B.   Stormwater detention and retention facilities and protected floodplain
land;
   C.   Open areas for passive and active recreation uses, but not including
any permanent structures;
   D.   Pedestrian trails; and
   E.   Landscape buffer areas.
POND: There being no natural bodies of standing water within the boundaries of
Green Oaks exceeding ten (10) acres in area, a "pond" is defined as any body of
standing water which is either a natural formation or manmade.
POND, DETENTION: An excavated or embankment pond required by the village
subdivision ordinance 2  or other authority to accommodate stormwater runoff or
other drainage requirements.
POND, EMBANKMENT: A body of water resulting from the construction of a dam or
embankment.
POND, EXCAVATED: A body of water resulting from excavation of an area for water
storage where the level of the water is not greater than the lowest ground
elevation at the perimeter of the pond prior to the time of excavation.
SCHOOLS: Shall include parochial and other private schools, teaching a general
education curriculum and serving a public school district, parish, or similar
area, but not including student dormitories and colleges, dancing, music, or
nursery schools, or business, trade, vocational or professional schools.
SENIOR HOUSING AND MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT INCLUDING OFFICES AND COMMERCIAL USES:
A use that provides for senior housing for residential uses for residents that
are primarily over fifty five (55) years in age including independent senior
living units, and assisted senior living units that may include memory care
units for seniors and others that require memory care assisted living, and
nursing care, and that includes, as a mixed use development, offices and
commercial uses that can serve the residents and employees associated with the
senior housing uses, while also serving other residents of the village and the
general public.
SENIOR HOUSING DEVELOPMENT, UNIFIED: A unified senior housing development is a
residential use for residents that are primarily over sixty (60) years in age
where fifty percent (50%) or more of the units are for independent senior
living units and where less than fifty percent (50%) of the units are for
assisted senior living units. As part of the unified senior housing development
up to a maximum of thirty percent (30%) of the assisted senior living units may
include memory care units for seniors and others that require memory care
assisted living.
SIGN: A name, identification, description, display or illustration which is
affixed to or painted or represented directly or indirectly upon a building or
other outdoor surface or piece of land, and which directs attention to an
object, product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or
business. Each display surface of a sign shall be considered to be a separate
sign.
However, as used herein, the word sign shall not include any display of
official court or public office notices, nor shall it include the flag, emblem,
or insignia of a nation, political unit, school or religious group. A sign
shall not include a sign located completely within an enclosed building unless
the context shall be visible from a street.
SIGN, ADVERTISING (BILLBOARD OR POSTER PANEL): A sign which directs attention
to a business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered
at any location other than upon the premises where such sign is located, or to
which it is affixed.
SIGN, BUSINESS: A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted, or to a commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered, upon
the premises where such sign is located, or to which it is affixed.
SIGN, FLASHING: Any illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times when such
sign is in use. For the purpose of this title any moving illuminated sign shall
be considered a flashing sign.
SIGN, GROSS SURFACE AREA OF: The entire area within a single continuous
perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of such sign and in no case passing
through or between any adjacent elements of same. However, such perimeter shall
not include any structural elements lying outside the limits of such sign and
not forming an integral part of the display.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A building where no more than two (2) horses are kept for
noncommercial or private use.
STABLE, PUBLIC: A building where horses are kept for hire or boarded for
remuneration.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above; or if there is no floor above, the space
between the floor and the ceiling next above. A basement shall not be counted
as a story.
STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection of
roof decking and wall not more than three feet (3') above the top floor level,
and in which space not more than sixty percent (60%) of the floor area is
completed for principal or accessory uses.
STREET (AVENUE, PLACE, ROAD, LANE OR HIGHWAY): A right of way, which affords a
primary means of access to abutting property.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change, other than incidental repairs, in the
supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls or
partitions, columns, beams or girders; or any substantial change in the roof or
exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything erected, the use of which requires more or less permanent
location on the ground; or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground. An advertising or business sign or other advertising device, if
detached or projecting shall be construed to be a separate structure.
SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE: Any constructed pool greater than twenty four inches
(24") deep, or with a surface area greater than two hundred fifty (250) square
feet, or equipped with a water recirculating system, or that involves
structural materials which is used, or intended to be used, as a swimming pool
in connection with a single-family residence and available only to the family
of the householder and his private guests. All private swimming pools shall be
enclosed by a five foot (5') high minimum to a seven foot (7') maximum cyclone
type fence with a locking gate or equivalent protective barrier (for example,
stockade type fence, densely planted hawthorn hedge, or a protective railing
and deck manufactured for above grade pools).
SWIMMING POOL, PUBLIC: Any constructed pool, greater than twenty four inches
(24") deep, or with a surface area greater than two hundred fifty (250) square
feet, or equipped with a water recirculating system or that involves structural
materials, which is not a private swimming pool.
TENNIS COURT: A place for playing tennis, with a surface of grass, clay,
asphalt, board or similar playing surface and divided by a net and marked with
lines, but excluding courts for deck or platform tennis, handball, squash and
racquetball.
TENNIS COURT, PRIVATE: A tennis court on a lot and intended for the use of the
owner or residents of that lot only.
TENNIS COURT, PUBLIC OR SEMIPUBLIC: A tennis court on a lot or parcel of land
which is owned or controlled by either a unit of government or chartered
homeowners' association and which is intended for use by the general public or
the members of the homeowners' association.
TENNIS COURTS, COMMERCIAL: A tennis court which is owned and operated for
profitmaking purposes.
USE, ACCESSORY: A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of a building located on the same lot with the principal use of the
building. Paved surfaces used for ingress and egress, such as streets,
sidewalks, and walkways shall not be included in the definition of an
"accessory use", but such paved surfaces shall be included in impervious
surface areas and in impervious surface calculations. An "accessory use"
includes, but is not limited to, the following:
   A.   Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on the same lot with
any retail service or business use, unless this storage is excluded by the
specific district zoning regulations.
   B.   Storage of goods used in or produced by manufacturing activities on the
same lot or parcel of ground with such activities, unless this storage is
excluded by the specific district zoning regulations.
   C.   Signs, as permitted and regulated by ordinance.
   D.   Tennis courts.
   E.   Swimming pools whether above or in ground.
   F.   Decks, patios, and porches.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or building as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
VEHICLE, COMMERCIAL: Any car, taxi, limousine, truckster, truck, tractor,
trailer, bus, van, pickup, or similar vehicle which is used in conjunction with
any business or gainful occupation; or which has advertising or other graphic
display material, or other information identifying any business, industry,
service, or other gainful occupation affixed or displayed on it; or which has
racks, storage boxes, carriers and related accessories which are used for
commercial purposes or in connection with any gainful occupation.
VEHICLE, NONCOMMERCIAL: Any car, truckster, trailer, truck, bus, van, pickup or
similar vehicle which is used for personal transportation or recreational
purposes and which does not otherwise qualify as a commercial vehicle as herein
defined.
VEHICLE, OVERSIZED NONCOMMERCIAL: Any noncommercial vehicle which exceeds
either eight feet (8') in width, twenty feet (20') in length or eight feet (8')
in height.
VILLAGE BOARD: The president and board of trustees of the village of Green
Oaks, Lake County, Illinois.
YARD: An open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky, except as otherwise permitted in this title. A yard
extends along a lot line and at right angles to such line to a depth or width
specified in the yard regulations for the district in which such lot is
located.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extended along the full width of the front lot line between
side lot lines.
YARD, REAR: The portion of the yard on the same lot with the principal
building, located between the rear line of the building and the rear lot line
and extended from the full width of the lot; provided that in those locations
where an alley is plotted in the rear of the lots, one-half (1/2) of the width
of the plotted alley may be included in the rear yard requirements.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending along a side lot line between the front and rear
yards. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-1960; amd. Ord. 65-06, 10-23-1965; Ord. 72-01, 4-26-
1972; Ord. 72-06, 11-22-1972; Ord. 76-02, 6-23-1976; Ord. 78-O-03, 2-16-1978;
Ord. 79-05, 6-27-1979; Ord. 81-16, 11-25-1981; Ord. 82-10, 11-4-1982; 1988
Code; Ord. 93-01, 1-27-1993; Ord. 2002-O-01, 1-23-2002; Ord. 2007-O-2, 2-28-
2007; Ord. 2007-O-15, 10-24-2007; Ord. 2013-O-14, 10-23-2013; Ord. 2014-O-03,
5-28-2014; Ord. 2014-O-13, 8-27-2014; Ord. 2014-O-36, 11-19-2014; Ord. 2015-O-
03, 1-28-2015; Ord. 2016-O-09, 6-22-2016; Ord. 2020-O-07, 7-26-2020; Ord. 2022-
O-17, 9-28-2022; Ord. 2022-O-22, 10-26-2022; Ord. 2025-O-03, 2-26-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7 of this code.
2 1. See title 9 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Building And Land Uses
8-3-2: Yards
8-3-3: Churches
8-3-4: Schools
8-3-5: Ponds
8-3-6: Public Utility Uses
8-3-7: Prohibitions
8-3-8: Prohibitions In Residential Districts
8-3-9: Commercial Vehicles
8-3-1: BUILDING AND LAND USES:
   A.   Conformance With Regulations Required: No building or tract of land
shall be devoted to any use and no building or structure or part thereof shall
be erected, raised, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or altered,
except in conformity with the regulations herein established and specified for
the district in which it is located and after obtaining written permission from
the building commissioner as provided herein. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-1960)
   B.   Accessory Buildings And Uses:
      1.   Accessory Buildings Or Uses: Accessory buildings or uses shall be
compatible with the principal use and shall not be constructed prior to the
establishment or construction of the principal use.
         a.   Residential Zoning Districts: For standards concerning accessory
buildings and uses in the residential zoning districts see chapter 5,
"Residence Districts", of this title.
         b.   Nonresidential Zoning Districts: For standards concerning
accessory buildings and uses in the nonresidential zoning districts see chapter
7, "Office, Business, And Industrial Districts", of this title. (Ord. 2014-O-
03, 5-28-2014)
         c.   Restrictions: Accessory buildings shall not be erected in front
of the main building on a zoning lot.
         d.   Anchoring: All accessory buildings shall be anchored at a minimum
of four (4) corners.
      2.   Limitation On The Number Of Accessory Buildings On A Lot:
Notwithstanding any provision of this title, not more than three (3) accessory
buildings shall be permitted on any one residential lot. (Ord. 2007-O-15, 10-
24-2007)
8-3-2: YARDS:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   The minimum yard space required for one structure shall not again be
considered as yard space for another adjoining structure.
      2.   No lot shall be reduced in area so that the yards or other open
spaces become less than required by this title.
   B.   Permitted Obstructions: For the purpose of this title the following
shall not be considered as obstructions when located in the yards indicated:
      1.   Front Yard And Side Yards Abutting A Street:
         a.   Open terraces and awnings adjoining the principal building, if
they do not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the yard;
         b.   Fences not to exceed seven feet (7') in height; and
         c.   Ornamental light standards and flagpoles.
A side yard which adjoins a street shall be considered a front yard.
On corner lots, no obstructions of any kind including vegetation higher than
eighteen inches (18") above curb level shall be located in any portion of a
required front or side yard situated within fifty feet (50') of the lot corner
formed by the intersection of any two (2) street lines.
      2.   Side Yards, Except Those Abutting A Street: Open accessory off
street parking spaces, in addition to items permitted in subsection B1 of this
section.
      3.   Rear Yards:
         a.   Open accessory off street parking spaces;
         b.   Minor residential accessory buildings and open residential
accessory structures, such as patios and decks, with a minimum of a 10-foot
setback from a rear property line and not exceeding a cumulative total of 325
square feet on a lot for such buildings and structures;
         c.   Recreational equipment and trellises; and
         d.   Fences not to exceed seven feet (7') in height. (Ord. 60-08, 4-
27-1960; amd. Ord. 2025-O-03, 2-26-2025)
8-3-3: CHURCHES:
Churches are a special use permitted in residential districts provided the
following standards are met and a special use permit is issued under the
provisions of Chapter 10 of this Title: (Ord. 91-04, 6-26-1991)
   A.   Lot Size: Five (5) acres or more.
   B.   Percentage Of Lot Coverage Permitted: Ten percent (10%).
   C.   Minimum Frontage: Three hundred feet (300').
   D.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: One hundred feet (100').
      2.   Rear Yard: One hundred feet (100').
      3.   Side Yards:
         a.   Total: Two hundred feet (200').
         b.   Minimum: One hundred feet (100').
         c.   Abutting A Street: One hundred feet (100').
      4.   Maximum Building Height:
         a.   Principal Building: Thirty five feet (35').
         b.   Accessory Buildings: Twenty feet (20').
   E.   Parking Facilities:
      1.   Number Of Spaces: One parking space for four (4) seating spaces. In
calculating spaces, any fraction less than one-half (1/2) may be dropped and a
fraction of one-half (1/2) or more shall be counted as one space.
      2.   Size Of Spaces: Each space shall be a minimum of two hundred (200)
square feet and shall be a definitely designated space adequate for one motor
vehicle.
      3.   Access To Spaces And Street: Adequate access to each parking space
and to the street shall be provided.
      4.   Construction Maintenance: All parking facilities shall be paved and
maintained in a dust-free condition.
   F.   Ingress And Egress: A paved driveway, allowing ingress at one point and
egress at another point, to the same public highway and designed so as to
prevent obstruction to traffic at either point, shall be provided. Widening of
the public highway for a distance of at least fifty feet (50') shall be
provided for entering vehicles. The consent of the proper public authorities
therefor shall be obtained.
   G.   Passenger Loading And Unloading: Passenger unloading shall be provided
for off the public highway.
   H.   Lighting: Adequate lighting shall be provided at the points of ingress
and egress on the driveway. Exterior lighting, however, must be so arranged as
not to cause glare on nearby residences or highways.
   I.   Facilities For Children: Adequate facilities for children during
services shall be provided.
   J.   Schools: "Schools" as defined in Section
8-2-2 of this Title are permitted, provided they meet the requirements of
Section
8-3-4 of this Chapter.
   K.   Prohibitions: The following uses and activities are prohibited:
      1.   All outdoor public address and loudspeaker systems.
      2.   Day camps, picnic areas and nursery schools.
      3.   Dormitories or sleeping facilities for church members, however, they
may be provided for members of the clergy or pastorate, provided the facilities
so provided meet the requirements of the zoning and building regulations
covering residential buildings. (Ord. 66-03, 5-18-1966)
8-3-4: SCHOOLS:
Schools are a special use permitted in residential districts provided the
following standards are met and a special use permit is issued under the
provisions of Chapter 10 of this Title: (Ord. 91-04, 6-26-1991)
   A.   Lot Size: Five (5) acres or more. (Ord. 66-03, 5-18-1966)
   B.   Bulk And Impervious Surface Standards:
      1.   Maximum Lot Coverage Permitted: Twenty five percent (25%).
      2.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio Permitted: Twenty five percent (25%).
      3.   Maximum Impervious Surface Ratio Permitted: Forty percent (40%).
(Ord. 96-10, 6-26-1996)
   C.   Minimum Frontage: Three hundred feet (300'). (Ord. 66-03, 5-18-1966)
   D.   Yards:
      1.   Minimum Front Yard, Side Yard Abutting A Street, Side Yard And Rear
Yard: One hundred feet (100').
      2.   Minimum Driveway And Parking Lot Setback From Any Property Line:
Twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 96-10, 6-26-1996)
   E.   Maximum Building Heights:
      1.   Principal Building: Thirty five feet (35').
      2.   Accessory Building: Twenty feet (20').
   F.   Parking Facilities:
      1.   Number Of Spaces:
Elementary Schools: One parking space for each teacher and each nonteaching
employee.
Senior High School: One parking space for each teacher and each nonteaching
employee, plus one space for each five (5) students.
If a school has an auditorium or assembly hall that may be used by other than
the student body, parking facilities must be provided on the basis of one
parking space for each three (3) people based on the design capacity of the
facility. Such parking may be used to satisfy the parking requirements of the
school provided the parking spaces are convenient to both uses.
      2.   Size Of Space, Paving: Requirements shall be the same as for
churches, subsection
8-3-3E of this Chapter.
   G.   Ingress And Egress: Requirements shall be the same as for churches,
subsection
8-3-3F of this Chapter.
   H.   Passenger Loading And Unloading: Requirements shall be the same as for
churches, subsection
8-3-3G of this Chapter.
   I.   Lighting: Requirements shall be the same as for churches, subsection
8-3-3H of this Chapter.
   J.   Prohibited Uses: The following uses are prohibited:
      1.   Day camps, picnic areas and nursery schools.
      2.   Dormitories or sleeping facilities, except that for those schools
which are classified as parochial schools, residences may be provided for the
members of the clergy who must remain on the facilities provided such residence
meets all requirements of the zoning and building regulations of the Village
for a residence. (Ord. 66-03, 5-18-1966)
8-3-5: PONDS 1 :
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   No manmade pond shall be constructed nor any natural pond be
dredged, filled, cleared, reconstructed or improved unless the owners of all
lots or parcels on which said pond exists or is to be constructed shall first
obtain a building permit for the construction or improvement thereof.
      2.   The building permit for constructing a manmade pond or improving a
natural pond shall not be issued unless the proposed pond conforms to all of
the construction and performance criteria set forth in this Section.
      3.   The building permit applicant shall submit plans showing how the
proposed pond or improvement shall conform to these criteria.
   B.   Boundaries To Next Lot And Yard Requirements: The boundaries of ponds,
whether located on one or more lots of record, shall, at the perimeter of the
pond, meet all the front, side and rear yard setback requirements for the zone
in which the lots or parcels of land are located.
   C.   Location Restrictions: A pond shall not be located closer than fifty
feet (50') from any part of a septic system or seventy five feet (75') from any
well.
   D.   Safety Requirements: Ponds shall be constructed with a safety ledge and
with side slopes as set forth and illustrated at the end of this section, and
every pond hereafter constructed or improved shall be equipped with lifesaving
equipment and a warning sign installed at a visible and convenient location.
   E.   Design Requirements: The design of all manmade ponds shall ensure that
the rates of flow of natural drainage runoff shall not be increased by the pond
and the ingress and egress points of natural drainage shall not be altered. No
manmade pond hereafter permitted shall exceed four (4) acres or be less than
fifteen one-hundredths (0.15) acres in area unless the variation from zoning
requirements is granted pursuant to the provisions of section
8-10-2 of this title.
   F.   Pond Maintenance: All owners of lots or parcels upon which ponds now
exist or are hereafter constructed shall be responsible for maintaining such
ponds. In the case of natural ponds or manmade ponds now existing, the owners
shall maintain said ponds so that they do not become malodorous, noisome or
create a nuisance or hazard within the community. In the case of ponds
hereafter created or improved under the building permit, the said owners shall
have a continuing duty to maintain said ponds as provided herein for existing
ponds and, in addition, to maintain said ponds in accordance with the criteria
set forth in the plans upon which the building permits therefor were issued.
   G.   Emergency Use: All ponds, natural or manmade, are hereby declared to be
a natural resource for the welfare and protection of the general public from
the dangers and hazards of fire and explosion. All owners of lots and parcels
upon which ponds are located shall permit and provide for entry by the local
fire protection district personnel and equipment in all times of emergency to
allow withdrawal of water for emergency purposes.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2097.gif]
 
(Ord. 60-08, 4-27-1960)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  7-1-10 of this Code.
8-3-6: PUBLIC UTILITY USES:
The following public utility uses and similar uses serving the public are
permitted in any district: poles, towers, wires, conduits, vaults, laterals,
railroad tracks and railroad operations or other similar distributing equipment
of a public utility or passenger or freight service railroad use including
accessory uses. (Ord. 2014-O-13, 8-27-2014)
8-3-7: PROHIBITIONS:
The following are prohibited in all districts:
   A.   The storage of junk, scrap metal, wrecked or abandoned automobiles,
used automobile parts or accessories, rags or papers;
   B.   The dumping of dead animal offal, garbage, rubbish or trash;
   C.   Sand and gravel removal;
   D.   Logging;
   E.   Dirt removal except when same is necessary for the construction of a
building or an accessory thereto; and (Ord. 65-06, 10-23-1965)
   F.   Trailers located in the village at the effective date hereof shall be
removed within thirty (30) days. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-1960)
8-3-8: PROHIBITIONS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
The following are prohibited in residential districts:
   A.   Swimming pools, public.
   B.   Tennis courts, commercial. (1988 Code)
   C.   Advertising signs, except as provided herein. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-1960)
   D.   Commercial kennels, as defined in section
8-2-2 of this title. (Ord. 72-06, 11-22-1972)
8-3-9: COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Parking or storing on public or private property of any commercial
vehicle exceeding ten thousand (10,000) pounds' allowed gross vehicle weight
for a period longer than to load or unload or to render a service, shall not be
allowed in any residential district.
   B.   Commercial vehicles, under ten thousand one (10,001) pounds' allowed
gross vehicle weight, and oversized noncommercial vehicles shall be parked only
within a garage or upon the premises, provided that it shall be parked upon a
front, side or rear yard required by this title and further provided,
appropriate visual screening, including, but not limited to, fencing, berms, or
vegetation shall be provided. (Ord. 82-10, 11-4-1982)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAPS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Districts Established
8-4-2: Zoning Maps
8-4-3: Unclassified And Annexed Territory
8-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to classify, regulate and restrict the location of uses of land areas
and the location of buildings designed for specific uses; to regulate and limit
the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected or altered; to regulate and
limit the intensity of the use of lot areas; and to regulate and determine the
area of yards and other open spaces within and surrounding such buildings, all
land lying within the limits of the Village is hereby divided into the
following districts, listed in order from the highest class to the lowest
class: (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-1960)
SR-5   Suburban Residence: Single-Family Residence, 5 Acres
SR-2   Suburban Residence: Single-Family Residence, 2 Acres
SR-1.5 Suburban Residence: Single-Family Residence, 1.5 Acres Average
SR-1   Suburban Residence: Single-Family Residence, 1 Acre
SR-1A  Suburban Residence: Single-Family Residence, 1 Acre
CB     Community Business
GB     General Business
HC     Highway Commercial
LI     Limited Industrial
GI     General Industrial
II     Intensive Industrial
CR     Commercial Recreation
O      Office
I      Institutional
MX     Mixed-Use
 
(Ord. 2018-O-08, 11-28-2018)
8-4-2: ZONING MAPS:
The maps designated as the "official zoning maps" classifying the area within
the Village, and the "extraterritorial zoning map of Green Oaks, Lake County,
Illinois" classifying the entire peripheral area of the Village lying within
its jurisdiction, in their current form, are made a part hereof by reference,
and all notations, references and other data shown thereon shall be as much a
part of this title as if the same were all fully set forth and described
herein. Said maps shall be and remain on file in the Office of the Village
Clerk. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-1960; amd. Ord. 65-06, 10-23-1965; Ord. 76-02, 6-23-
1976; 1988 Code)
8-4-3: UNCLASSIFIED AND ANNEXED TERRITORY:
Any land whose classification is not shown on said map and land hereafter
annexed to the Village shall be automatically classified as in the SR-
2 District until differently classified by amendment. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-1960;
amd. Ord. 65-06, 10-23-1965)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Building On A Lot
8-5-2: Lot Standards And Types
8-5-3: Home Occupations
8-5-4: Tennis Courts
8-5-5: Exterior Lighting
8-5-6: Maximum Building Height
8-5-7: Maximum Building And Impervious Surface Coverage
8-5-1: BUILDING ON A LOT:
In single-family residence districts, every single-family dwelling hereafter
erected or structurally altered shall be located on a lot, and there shall not
be more than one principal building on one lot except in the SR-2 district for
a unified senior housing development there may be more than one principal
building on a lot subject to a special use approval. (Ord. 2014-O-03, 5-28-
2014)
8-5-2: LOT STANDARDS AND TYPES:
TABLE 1
RESIDENTIAL LOT STANDARDS
               Minimum Yard    Minimum Lot Width             Maximum Building  Maximum  Minimum     Maximum
     Minimum   Depth           Typical - See each            Height            Building Habitable   Impervious
     Lot Area  Typical - See   district             Minim um Typical - See     Coverage Ground      Surface
     Typical   each district                        Lot      each district              Floor Area  Coverage
     for most                  At Front Lot         Depth
     permitted                 Line           At    Typical                    Lots           More  Lots
Zone uses -    Front                          Front Principal   Accessory      40,000   1-    Than  40,000 Sq.
     See       1     Side Rear      Curv      Bldg. Building    Building       Sq. Ft.  Story 1     Ft. Or
     districts                 Grid .4   Cul. Line3 district                   Or       Bldg. Story Larger5
                                                                               Larger5

     Sq. Ft.   Ft.   Ft.  Ft.  Ft.  Ft.  Ft.  Ft.   Ft.      Ft Stor. Ft. Stor Percent  Sq.   Sq.   Percent
                                                             .            .             Ft.   Ft.
               Minimum Yard    Minimum Lot Width             Maximum Building  Maximum  Minimum     Maximum
     Minimum   Depth           Typical - See each            Height            Building Habitable   Impervious
     Lot Area  Typical - See   district             Minim um Typical - See     Coverage Ground      Surface
     Typical   each district                        Lot      each district              Floor Area  Coverage
     for most                  At Front Lot         Depth
     permitted                 Line           At    Typical                    Lots           More  Lots
Zone uses -    Front                          Front Principal   Accessory      40,000   1-    Than  40,000 Sq.
     See       1     Side Rear      Curv      Bldg. Building    Building       Sq. Ft.  Story 1     Ft. Or
     districts                 Grid .4   Cul. Line3 district                   Or       Bldg. Story Larger5
                                                                               Larger5

     Sq. Ft.   Ft.   Ft.  Ft.  Ft.  Ft.  Ft.  Ft.   Ft.      Ft Stor. Ft. Stor Percent  Sq.   Sq.   Percent
                                                             .            .             Ft.   Ft.
1    2         3     4    5    6    7    8    9     10       11 12    13  14   15       16    17    18
AG   200,000   75    50   50   300  100  65   300   350      35 21/2  20  16   10       1,500 1,200 20
                                                                      6
SR-5 200,000   50    50   50   300  100  65   300   350      35 21/2  20  16   20       1,500 1,200 30
                                                                      6
SR-2 80,000    30    30   30   150  100  65   150   175      35 21/2  20  16   20       1,500 1,200 30
                                                                      6
SR-  1.5 acres 30    152  30   130  100  65   130   175      35 21/2  20  16   20       1,500 1,200 30
1. 5                                                                  6
SR-1 40,000    30    152  30   130  100  65   130   175      35 21/2  20  16   20       1,500 1,200 30
                                                                      6
SR-  40,000    30    132  30   130  100  65   130   175      35 21/2  20  16   20       1,500 1,000 30
1 A                                                                   6
Legal nonconforming lots, lots in special use (cluster/open sp. subdivision)                      
   Lots less than 40,000 sq. ft. to 20,000 sq. ft. in lot area              20                 35
   Lots less than 20,000 sq. ft. in lot area                                23                   37
Notes:
    1.    On cul-de-sac lots, the front yard depth shall be established at that
point where the lot width measured along the front building line meets the
minimum standard as set forth in column 10 of this table, but in no case shall
be less than the minimum depth as set forth in column 3 of this table.
    2.    The side yard abutting a street shall be 30 feet minimum.
    3.    On cul-de-sac and curvilinear lots, the front building line shall be
an arc line along the radius from the center of the cul-de-sac or street curve
center.
    4.    On curvilinear lots, the lot width at the front building line shall
be measured at the minimum front yard depth.
    5.    For building coverage and impervious surface coverage standards for
lots of less than 40,000 square feet, see subsection
8-5-7D of this chapter.
    6.   An agriculture permitted use lot of 20 acres or greater and subject to
a conservation easement restricting the lot's maximum building coverage or an
AG District lot 10 acres or greater may have 1 accessory building with a
maximum building height of 35 feet or 2½ stories, whichever is less.
(Ord. 2013-O-14, 10-23-2013; amd. Ord. 2022-O-17, 9-28-2022; Ord. 2025-O-01, 1-
22-2025)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2101.gif]
 
(Ord. 78-03, 2-16-1978)
8-5-3: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
Home occupations are permitted in all residential districts and are governed by
the following regulations:
   A.   Permitted Home Occupations And Uses: Permitted home occupations and
uses include, among others:
      1.   Artist studio;
      2.   Sculptor's studio;
      3.   Use of the premises by a clergyman, physician, surgeon, dentist,
lawyer, architect, engineer, contractor, accountant, or other persons for
consultation with patients, clients or customers, but not for the general
practice of his profession or trade; and
      4.   Teaching, tutoring or other types of instruction to either an
individual or a group of persons not to exceed four (4) in the aggregate,
provided it is conducted in a manner not to constitute a nuisance.
Permitted home occupations shall not include the use of any mechanical
equipment other than is usual for domestic or hobby purposes.
   B.   Prohibited Uses: Uses which are not deemed home occupations and which
are not permitted include, among others:
      1.   Clinics, doctors' offices, hospitals, barbershops, beauty parlors,
dress shops, millinery shops, real estate offices, taxicab or livery services,
nursery schools, daycare centers, tearooms, restaurants, tourist homes,
boarding houses, rooming houses, social clubs, nursing homes, animal hospitals,
kennels, building contractors' storage and similar uses;
      2.   Any wholesale, retail or service business which regularly involves
the sale, receipt or delivery of merchandise on the premises;
      3.   Any use which produces noxious matter, creates a public hazard, or
constitutes a nuisance; and
      4.   The repair, bodywork or painting of any vehicle for remuneration.
Any gainful activity which is not a permitted home occupation or use shall be
considered as a business use and is prohibited in any residential district.
   C.   Exterior Storage Prohibited: There shall be no exterior storage of any
equipment or materials used in any occupation.
   D.   Signs Prohibited: There shall be no sign or display that will indicate
from the exterior that the building is being used for any purpose other than
that of a dwelling. (Ord. 82-10, 11-4-1982)
8-5-4: TENNIS COURTS 1 :
Private, public or semipublic tennis courts are a permitted accessory use in
any residential zone subject to the following standards:
   A.   Certain Courts Prohibited: Courts for deck or platform tennis,
handball, squash, and racquetball are not permitted.
   B.   Yard Requirements: Tennis courts shall meet all front and rear yard
setback requirements for the zone in which the lot or parcel of land is
located, and shall not be closer than fifteen feet (15') to the side yard in
any zone.
   C.   Location Near Septic Field: Tennis courts shall not be located closer
than ten feet (10') from any part of a septic field or the planned septic field
expansion area.
   D.   Fences: Tennis courts may be enclosed by a tight fence not higher than
twelve feet (12').
Any enclosing fence, if over seven feet (7'), shall meet all front, side and
rear yard setback requirements for the zone in which the lot or parcel of land
is located.
   E.   Lighting: Any lighting provided for a tennis court shall be installed
so as not to create any glare or reflection on adjoining property or streets 2
. Lighting standards shall be fitted with theatrical baffles. (Ord. 79-05, 6-
27-1979)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-1-11 of this code.
2 2. See section
  8-5-5 of this chapter.
8-5-5: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
On any residential lot, exterior lights must be so arranged so as not to cause
any glare or reflection on any adjacent property or street. (Ord. 79-05, 6-27-
1979)
8-5-6: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
The maximum height of buildings shall meet the following standards, which are
also listed at section
8-5-2, table 1 of this chapter:
   A.   Principal building: Thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half (21/2)
stories, whichever is less.
   B.   Accessory building: Twenty feet (20') or one story, whichever is less,
except an agriculture permitted use lot of 20 acres or greater and subject to a
conservation easement restricting the lot's maximum building coverage or an AG
District lot 10 acres or greater may have 1 accessory building with a maximum
building height of thirty-five feet (35') or two and one-half (2½) stories,
whichever is less.
Building height may be modified as part of a special use review and approval
process for a unified senior housing development that may require increases in
the minimum yards or setbacks. See also section
8-5B-3, subsection F under "senior housing development, unified", of this
chapter. (Ord. 2014-O-03, 5-28-2014; amd. Ord. 2022-O-17, 9-28-2022; Ord. 2025-
O-01, 1-22-2025)
8-5-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING AND IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE:
The maximum cumulative total building and impervious surface coverage on a lot
shall meet the following standards: (Ord. 2014-O-03, 5-28-2014)
   A.   Agriculture District (For Lots Of 40,000 Square Feet Or Greater In The
AG District): Maximum building coverage shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of
the lot area and maximum impervious surface coverage shall not exceed twenty
percent (20%) of the lot area. (Ord. 2013-O-14, 10-23-2013)
   B.   Residential Districts (For Lots Of 40,000 Square Feet Or Greater In The
SR-5, SR-2, SR-1.5, SR-1 And SR-1A Districts): Maximum building coverage shall
not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the lot area and maximum impervious surface
coverage shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the lot area. Maximum
impervious surface coverage may be modified as part of a special use review and
approval process for a unified senior housing development that may require
increases in the minimum yards or setbacks. (Ord. 2014-O-03, 5-28-2014)
   C.   Exceptions: In an SR-1 cluster open space subdivision, SR-
1 transitional cluster subdivision, and SR-1 bonus cluster subdivision the
maximum coverage shall be controlled by the "buildable area on a lot" standards
in the district standards for these developments.
   D.   Nonconforming And Special Use Lots: For residentially zoned legal
nonconforming lots, or for a residentially zoned lot in a special use that does
not have a specific building or impervious surface coverage standard in the
special use ordinance approved by the village, and where the lot is less than
forty thousand (40,000) square feet but greater than twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet, the maximum building coverage shall not exceed twenty percent
(20%) and the maximum impervious surface coverage shall not exceed thirty five
percent (35%), and for lots of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or less the
maximum building coverage shall not exceed twenty three percent (23%) and the
maximum impervious surface coverage shall not exceed thirty seven percent
(37%). (Ord. 2013-O-14, 10-23-2013)
ARTICLE A. SR-5 SUBURBAN RESIDENCE DISTRICT
(SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE, 5 ACRES)
SECTION:
8-5A-1: Applicability Of Regulations
8-5A-2: Permitted Uses
8-5A-3: Special Uses
8-5A-4: Site And Structure Requirements
8-5A-1: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS:
No building, structure or premises shall be used and no building or structure
shall be hereafter erected or altered within any SR-5 district, unless
otherwise provided for in this title, except in conformity with the regulations
established and set forth in this article. (Ord. 72-06, 11-22-1972; amd. Ord.
76-02, 6-23-1976; Ord. 79-05, 6-27-1979)
8-5A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The only uses permitted are:
Accessory uses.
Agriculture, only the following uses are permitted under the term
"Agriculture":
   A.   Apiary;
   B.   Cultivation of field and garden crops
   C.   Flower farm
   D.   Livestock raising on a minimum ten (10) contiguous, vacant acres
subject to the following:
TABLE 8-5A-2-1
LIVESTOCK RAISING REQUIREMENTS
        Minimum Exclusive    Minimum Fenced Enclosure Minimum Fenced Enclosure
Animal1 Fenced Land Area Per height3                  Perimeter Property Line
        Animal2                                       Setback4
                     Minimum Exclusive                      Minimum Fenced
Animal1              Fenced Land Area Per Minimum Fenced    Enclosure Perimeter
                     Animal2              Enclosure height3 Property Line
                                                            Setback4
                     1/6 acre per animal
Alpaca/Llama         not to exceed 25     5 feet            10 feet
                     total animals
                     1 acre per animal
American Bison/Cow   not to exceed 25     5 feet            10 feet
                     total animals
Camel/Donkey/ Horse/ 1 acre per animal
Mule                 not to exceed 25     5 feet            10 feet
                     total animals
                     1/2 acre per animal
Elk                  not to exceed 25     6.5 feet          10 feet
                     total animals
                     1/8 acre per animal
Goat/Sheep           not to exceed 25     5 feet            10 feet
                     total animals
                     1/8 acre per animal
Pig                  not to exceed 25     3 feet            200 feet
                     total animals
                     20 square feet per   4 feet for non-
Poultry5             animal not to exceed flying species; 6 50 feet
                     150 animals          feet for flying
                                          species
                     30 square feet per
Rabbit               animal not to exceed 3 feet            50 feet
                     25 animals
 
NOTES:
   1.   Animals shall be kept in a safe and hygienic manner and not present
nuisances for smells, noises, over accumulation of manure, or similarly
potential adverse aspects associated with livestock raising.
   2.   Each lot shall provide this minimum exclusive amount of vacant,
unimproved land area per animal completely enclosed by a fence; no land area
may be counted more than once for any one animal. Fractional number of animals
shall be rounded down to the closest whole integer number.
   3.   Fences shall be permitted on lots qualifying for livestock raising. A
fenced enclosure shall be designed to restrict the animals from freely leaving
the enclosed area. Any roofed enclosure shall be treated as an accessory
building.
   4.   Perimeter property line shall be the outer most property line of all
land under common ownership of the livestock raising use. No fence shall exceed
7 feet in height nor have an opacity of greater than 50% within any required
yard.
   5.   Roosters are not permitted.
   E.   Nursery, tree and shrub; and
   F.   Orchard.
Cemetery.
Private stable, accessory to residence.
Single-family dwellings, one per lot.
Temporary buildings solely for construction purposes for a period not to exceed
such construction.
Unilluminated "For Sale" and "To Rent" signs subject to the following:
   A.   There shall be not more than one sign per lot, except that on a corner
lot two (2) signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted. No sign shall
exceed twelve (12) square feet in area nor be closer than eight feet (8') to
any other lot.
   B.   No sign shall project beyond the "lot line" as defined herein. (Ord.
72-06, 11-22-1972; amd. Ord. 76-02, 6-23-1976; Ord. 79-05, 6-27-1979; Ord.
2022-O-17, 9-28-2022; Ord. 2025-O-01, 1-22-2025)
8-5A-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses are permitted if and only if a permit is issued pursuant to
chapter 10 of this title:
Churches.
Electric substations where required for local area services.
Sanitary sewerage pumping facilities where required for local area services.
Schools.
Water pump stations and reservoirs where required for local area services.
(Ord. 91-04, 6-26-1991)
8-5A-4: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area, Frontage, Depth: Every lot, farm or other parcel of land
shall have a minimum area of five (5) acres, a minimum lot frontage of three
hundred feet (300') and a minimum lot depth of three hundred fifty feet (350')
for all permitted uses; except that, the minimum lot frontage on a cul-de-sac
shall be sixty five feet (65') and on a curvilinear street, shall be one
hundred feet (100') at the front lot line.
   B.   Building Coverage And Impervious Surface Coverage: For lots of forty
thousand (40,000) square feet or greater, maximum building coverage shall not
exceed twenty percent (20%) of the lot area and maximum impervious surface
coverage shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the lot area. For lots of
less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet, the provisions of subsection
8-5-7D of this chapter shall apply.
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than fifty feet
(50') in depth; except that, in a cul-de-sac or on a curvilinear street the lot
width of the building line shall be three hundred feet (300') measured on an
arc line from the center of the cul-de-sac or the center of the curvilinear
street to the building line.
      2.   Side Yard: There shall be two (2) side yards, each of which shall be
not less than fifty feet (50') wide.
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than fifty feet
(50') in depth.
   D.   Building Height: Principal building height shall not exceed two and
one- half (21/2) stories above a basement story or thirty five feet (35'),
whichever is lower. Maximum accessory building heights shall be as stated in
subsection 8-5-6B of this chapter.
   E.   Ground Floor Area: One-story dwellings shall have a total habitable
ground floor area of not less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square
feet. Dwellings having more than one story shall have not less than one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of ground floor area.
   F.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings except garages shall have
the same side yard and rear yard requirements as are required for the principal
building and shall not be closer to the front lot line than seventy-five feet
(75'). Garages shall have the same side, rear and front yard requirements as
the principal building. No attached garage shall exceed forty five percent
(45%) of the square footage of the first floor of the principal residence. The
total combined square footage of all accessory buildings shall not exceed
seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage of the first floor of the
principal building, including the area within an attached garage, except in
cases where the lot coverage of the principal building and all accessory
buildings and uses is less than fifteen percent (15%), in which case the
seventy five percent (75%) limitation of the combined area of accessory
buildings as a percentage of the square footage of the principal building shall
not apply, and up to ten percent (10%) of the area of the lot may be covered by
accessory buildings. For any accessory building receiving an exception to the
seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage of the first floor of the
principal building limit, the total combined square footage of all accessory
buildings shall not exceed 2,000 square feet, except on an agriculture
permitted use lot of ten (10) acres or greater, and any detached garage
accessory building shall require an additional two (2) feet of setback for
every 100 square feet over 1,000 square feet from any side yard which adjoins a
street. Refer to section 8-5-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING AND IMPERVIOUS SURFACE
COVERAGE for additional provisions on total lot coverage area limits. (Ord. 72-
06, 11-22-1972; amd. Ord. 76-02, 6-23-1976; Ord. 78-03, 2-16-1978; Ord. 79-05,
6-27-1979; Ord. 2007-O-15, 10-24-2007; Ord. 2013-O-14, 10-23-2013; Ord. 2023-O-
12, 7-26-2023; Ord. 2025-O-01, 1-22-2025)
ARTICLE B. SR-2 SUBURBAN RESIDENCE DISTRICT
(SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE, 2 ACRES)
SECTION:
8-5B-1: Applicability Of Regulations
8-5B-2: Permitted Uses
8-5B-3: Special Uses
8-5B-4: Site And Structure Requirements
8-5B-1: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS:
No building, structure or premises shall be used and no building or structure
shall be hereafter erected or altered within any SR-2 district, unless
otherwise provided for in this title, except in conformity with the regulations
established and set forth in this article. (1988 Code)
8-5B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The only uses permitted are:
Accessory uses.
Agriculture on a minimum of five (5) acres and limited to the following:
   A.   Apiary
   B.   Cultivation of field and garden crops
   C.   Flower farm
   D.   Livestock raising on a minimum 10 contiguous, vacant acres subject to
the following:
TABLE 8-5B-2-1
Livestock Raising Requirements
        Minimum Exclusive    Minimum Fenced Enclosure Minimum Fenced Enclosure
Animal1 Fenced Land Area Per height3                  Perimeter Property Line
        Animal2                                       Setback4
                     Minimum Exclusive                      Minimum Fenced
Animal1              Fenced Land Area Per Minimum Fenced    Enclosure Perimeter
                     Animal2              Enclosure height3 Property Line
                                                            Setback4
                     1/6 acre per animal
Alpaca/Llama         not to exceed 25     5 feet            10 feet
                     total animals
                     1 acre per animal
American Bison/Cow   not to exceed 25     5 feet            10 feet
                     total animals
Camel/Donkey/ Horse/ 1 acre per animal
Mule                 not to exceed 25     5 feet            10 feet
                     total animals
                     1/2 acre per animal
Elk                  not to exceed 25     6.5 feet          10 feet
                     total animals
                     1/8 acre per animal
Goat/Sheep           not to exceed 25     5 feet            10 feet
                     total animals
                     1/8 acre per animal
Pig                  not to exceed 25     3 feet            200 feet
                     total animals
                     20 square feet per   4 feet for non-
Poultry5             animal not to exceed flying species; 6 50 feet
                     150 animals          feet for flying
                                          species
                     30 square feet per
Rabbit               animal not to exceed 3 feet            50 feet
                     25 animals
 
NOTES:
   1.   Animals shall be kept in a safe and hygienic manner and not present
nuisances for smells, noises, over accumulation of manure, or similarly
potential adverse aspects associated with livestock raising.
   2.   Each lot shall provide this minimum exclusive amount of vacant,
unimproved land area per animal completely enclosed by a fence; no land area
may be counted more than once for any one animal. Fractional number of animals
shall be rounded down to the closest whole integer number.
   3.   Fences shall be permitted on lots qualifying for livestock raising. A
fenced enclosure shall be designed to restrict the animals from freely leaving
the enclosed area. Any roofed enclosure shall be treated as an accessory
building.
   4.   Perimeter property line shall be the outer most property line of all
land under common ownership of the livestock raising use. No fence shall exceed
7 feet in height nor have an opacity of greater than 50% within any required
yard.
   5.   Roosters are not permitted.
   E.   Nursery, tree and shrub; and
   F.   Orchard.
Cemetery.
Private stable on lots 200,000 square or more, accessory to a residence.
Single-family detached dwellings, one per lot.
Temporary buildings solely for construction purposes for a period not to exceed
such construction.
Unilluminated "For Sale" and "To Rent" signs subject to the following:
   A.   There shall be not more than one sign per lot, except that on a corner
lot two (2) signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted. No sign shall
exceed twelve (12) square feet in area nor be closer than eight feet (8') to
any other lot;
   B.   No sign shall project beyond the "lot line" as defined herein. (Ord.
60-08, 4-27-1960; amd. Ord. 65-06, 10-23-1965; Ord. 66-03, 5-18-1966; Ord. 72-
01, 4-26-1972; Ord. 76-02, 6-23-1976; 1988 Code; Ord. 2022-O-17, 9-28-2022;
Ord. 2025-O-01, 1-22-2025)
8-5B-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses are permitted if and only if a permit is issued pursuant to
chapter 10 of this title:
Churches.
Cluster subdivision developments with individual residential lot requirements
reduced in lot area, lot width and depth, and side, front and rear yards to the
requirements set forth in the SR-2 district, provided that the development
shall meet the following standards:
   A.   The minimum area of the cluster subdivision development shall be twenty
(20) acres;
   B.   The average density of all lots shall be not greater than one
residential lot for each two (2) acres (87,120 square feet) in the total area
cluster subdivision (including internal local streets and areas permanently
dedicated to public or recreational uses);
   C.   The land is found to be physically and environmentally suitable for
development under standards of the SR-2 district as identified in the village
comprehensive plan or as established in special use hearings required for
cluster subdivision approval 1 ;
   D.   If the area of any individual residential lots in the cluster
subdivision (including internal local streets) is less than two (2) acres
(87,120 square feet), the balance of the area in the subdivision which
increases the average density to the minimum area requirements shall be
dedicated or reserved to public or recreational uses which are found necessary
or desirable to the community;
   E.   The use of the area devoted to public or recreational uses shall be
permanently assured and control of such uses shall be retained by the village;
   F.   The entire cluster subdivision shall be subdivided and developed as one
unit, unless each subunit shall meet all of the standards of a cluster
subdivision independently of the others;
   G.   A sketch plan and supporting documents as provided in section
9-2-2-1 of this code shall be submitted and approved and incorporated as a
condition of the special use permit; and
   H.   All lots in any SR-2 cluster subdivision shall be served by public
sanitary sewers.
   I.   Such other and further conditions or requirements as the village
authorities may set forth when permitting the development of a particular area
as a cluster subdivision.
   J.   The developer of a cluster subdivision shall provide adequate
provisions for the future maintenance and control of the open spaces,
preservation areas, walkways and other facilities required by the village
authorities to be established in areas dedicated or reserved to public or
recreational uses.
Electric substations where required for local area services.
Sanitary sewerage pumping facilities where required for local area services.
Schools.
Senior housing development, unified:
   A.   The minimum area for a site for a unified senior housing development
shall be ten (10) acres;
   B.   The majority of the residential units in a unified senior housing
development, a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the total number of
residential units, shall be for independent senior living units by residents
that are primarily over sixty (60) years in age, and the remaining residential
units may be for assisted care senior living units as found consistent with the
village of Green Oaks standards for a special use;
   C.   The site for the unified senior housing development is found to be
physically and environmentally suitable for development in the SR-2 district as
established in special use hearings required for approval, and the site must be
found to be able to take access from a regional arterial roadway as identified
in the village's comprehensive plan and cannot take any access from a local
street or roadway except for purposefully designed emergency access points
only, and the site shall be abutting property that is part of the regional open
space system as identified in the village's comprehensive plan;
   D.   The buildings in the unified senior housing development shall be so
located adjacent to any property line that is not part of the subject site so
as to meet or exceed the minimum yards or setbacks requirements of the SR-
2 district and more than one principal building may be included as part of the
unified senior housing development special use approval provided that the
internal setbacks between buildings are found to be necessary or desirable to
the unified senior housing development and to the community;
   E.   The building coverage for the building or buildings in the unified
senior housing development shall not exceed the building coverage standard of
the SR-2 district, and the impervious surface coverage may only exceed the
impervious surface standard of thirty percent (30%) in the SR-2 district by a
maximum of thirty percent (30%), being a maximum of thirty nine percent (39%)
provided there is the inclusion of amenities such as walking paths, seating
areas and other amenities that may relate to the needs of the residents of the
unified senior housing development as found to be desirable as part of the
special use approval process;
   F.   The building height as part of the unified senior housing development
shall not exceed three (3) stories and for the building height standard of up
to thirty five feet (35') in the SR-2 district the yard or setback requirements
of the SR-2 district of a minimum of thirty feet (30') from a property line
shall be applied, however for each one foot (1') of building height of over
thirty five feet (35') an additional five feet (5') of yard or setback from a
property line shall be required, provided the maximum building height shall not
exceed forty feet (40') with a minimum yard or setback of sixty feet (60') from
a property line. Opaque screening of all rooftop equipment shall be required
and the screening shall be part of the special use review and approval process;
   G.   A traffic study including a parking demand study section shall be
prepared by a qualified traffic engineer and submitted as part of the
supporting documents for a unified senior housing development, special use
application. Unless through the special use review and approval process the
plan commission recommends and the village board approves parking standards
that are found to be appropriate for the parking demand characteristic of the
specific unified senior housing development, the following parking standards
shall apply: for the first one hundred (100) units in a building for both
independent and assisted living senior housing units: 0.75 parking space per
unit, and for each unit above those first one hundred (100) units: 0.5 parking
space for each unit. For any independent senior housing units that are not part
of a building with assisted living units either an attached one car garage with
a driveway to the garage that can accommodate one additional parking space must
be provided for each unit, or a minimum of 1.75 parking spaces per unit must be
provided in a parking lot that is adjacent to the independent living units and
is reviewed and approved as part of the specific special use;
   H.   A site plan and supporting documents shall be submitted and approved
and incorporated as a condition of the special use permit;
   I.   A unified senior housing development in the SR-2 district shall be
served by public sanitary sewers and public water;
   J.   Such other and further conditions or requirements as the village
corporate authorities may reasonably establish when permitting the development
of a particular site for a unified senior housing development.
Water pump stations and reservoirs where required for local area services.
(Ord. 89-12, 7-26-1989; amd. Ord. 91-04, 6-26-1991; Ord. 2014-O-03, 5-28-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-10-1-3 of this title.
8-5B-4: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area, Frontage, Depth: Every lot, farm or other parcel of land
shall have a minimum area of two (2) acres, a minimum lot frontage of one
hundred fifty feet (150'), and a minimum lot depth of one hundred seventy five
feet (175') for all permitted uses; except that, the minimum lot frontage on a
cul-de-sac shall be sixty five feet (65') and on a curvilinear street, shall be
one hundred feet (100') at the front lot line.
   B.   Building Coverage And Impervious Surface Coverage: For lots of forty
thousand (40,000) square feet or greater, maximum building coverage shall not
exceed twenty percent (20%) of the lot area and maximum impervious surface
coverage shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the lot area. For lots of
less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet, the provisions of subsection
8-5-7D of this chapter shall apply. Subject to compliance with the village
stormwater regulations, the zoning standards for building coverage and
impervious surface coverage may be modified as part of a special use and
approval process subject to the inclusion of amenities such as walking paths,
seating areas and other amenities that shall relate to the needs of the
residents of the unified senior housing development and found by the corporate
authorities to be desirable as part of the special use approval process.
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than thirty feet
(30') in depth; except that, in a cul-de-sac or on a curvilinear street, the
lot width at the building line shall be one hundred fifty feet (150') as
measured on an arc line from the center of the cul-de-sac or the center of the
curvature of the street to the building line.
      2.   Side Yards: There shall be two (2) side yards, each of which shall
be not less than thirty feet (30') wide.
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than thirty feet
(30') in depth.
   D.   Building Height: Principal building height shall not exceed two and
one- half (21/2) stories above a basement story or thirty five feet (35'),
whichever is lower. Maximum accessory building heights shall be as stated in
subsection
8-5-6B of this chapter. Building height may be modified as part of a special
use review and approval process for a unified senior housing development that
may require increases in the minimum yards or setbacks. See also section
8-5B-3, subsection F under “senior housing development, unified”, of this
article.
   E.   Ground Floor Area: One-story dwellings shall have a total habitable
ground floor area of not less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square
feet. Dwellings having more than one story shall have not less than one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of ground floor area. Ground floor
area may be modified as part of a special use and approval process for a senior
housing unit in a unified senior housing development.
   F.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings except garages shall have
the same side yard and rear yard requirements as are required for the principal
building and shall not be closer to the front lot line than seventy-five feet
(75'). Garages shall have the same side, rear and front yard requirements as
the principal building. No attached garage shall exceed forty five percent
(45%) of the square footage of the first floor of the principal residence. The
total combined square footage of all accessory buildings shall not exceed
seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage of the first floor of the
principal building, including the area within an attached garage, except in
cases where the lot coverage of the principal building and all accessory
buildings and uses is less than fifteen percent (15%), in which case the
seventy five percent (75%) limitation of the combined area of accessory
buildings as a percentage of the square footage of the principal building shall
not apply, and up to ten percent (10%) of the area of the lot may be covered by
accessory buildings. For any accessory building receiving an exception to the
seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage of the first floor of the
principal building limit, the total combined square footage of all accessory
buildings shall not exceed 2,000 square feet, except on an agriculture
permitted use lot of ten (10) acres or greater, and any detached garage
accessory building shall require an additional two (2) feet of setback for
every 100 square feet over 1,000 square feet from any side yard which adjoins a
street. Refer to section 8-5-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING AND IMPERVIOUS SURFACE
COVERAGE for additional provisions on total lot coverage area limits. (Ord. 60-
08, 4-27-1960; amd. Ord. 65-06, 10-23-1965; Ord. 66-03, 5-18-1966; Ord. 72-01,
4-26-1972; Ord. 76-02, 6-23-1976; Ord. 78-03, 2-16-1978; 1988 Code; Ord. 2007-
O-15, 10-24-2007; Ord. 2013-O-14, 10-23-2013; Ord. 2014-O-03, 5-28-2014; Ord.
2023-O-12, 7-26-2023; Ord. 2025-O-01, 1-22-2025)
ARTICLE C. SR-1.5 SUBURBAN RESIDENCE DISTRICT
(SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE, 1.5 ACRES AVERAGE)
SECTION:
8-5C-1: Applicability of Regulations
8-5C-2: Permitted Uses
8-5C-3: Special Uses
8-5C-4: Site and Structure Requirements
8-5C-1: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS:
No building, structure or premises shall be used and no building or structure
shall be hereafter erected or altered within any SR-1.5 District, except in
conformity with the regulations established and set forth in this Article.
8-5C-2: PERMITTED USES:
The only uses permitted are:
   A.   Single-family detached dwellings, one per lot.
   B.   Agriculture on a minimum of five (5) acres and subject to the
restrictions for any SR-2 District as set forth in Article B of this Chapter.
   C.   Temporary buildings solely for construction purposes for a period not
to exceed such construction.
   D.   Accessory uses.
   E.   Unilluminated "For Sale" and "To Rent" signs subject to the following:
      1.   There shall be not more than one sign per lot, except that on a
corner lot two (2) signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted. No sign
shall exceed twelve (12) square feet in area nor be closer than eight feet (8')
to any other lot.
      2.   No sign shall project beyond the lot line as defined herein.
   F.   Private stable on lots 200,000 square or more, accessory to a
residence.
   G.   Cemetery.
   H.   Special uses as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 81-04, 2-25-81; 1988 Code;
Ord. 2022-O-17, 9-28-2022; Ord. 2025-O-01, 1-22-2025)
8-5C-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses are permitted if and only if a permit is issued pursuant to
Chapter 10 of this Title:
   A.   Public Uses:
      1.   Churches.
      2.   Schools.
      3.   Sanitary sewerage pumping facilities where required for local area
services.
      4.   Water pump stations and reservoirs where required for local area
services.
      5.   Electric substations where required for local area services. (Ord.
91-04, 6-26-91)
   B.   Cluster subdivision developments with individual residential lot
requirements reduced in lot area, lot width and depth, and side, front and rear
yards to the requirements set forth in the SR-1 District; provided, that the
development shall meet the following standards:
      1.   The minimum area of the cluster subdivision development shall be
twenty (20) acres;
      2.   The average density of all lots shall be not greater than one
residential lot for each one and one-half (11/2) acres (65,340 square feet) in
the total area cluster subdivision (including internal local streets and areas
to be permanently dedicated to public or recreational uses);
      3.   The land is found to be physically and environmentally suitable for
development under standards of the SR-1 District as identified in the village
comprehensive plan (Ord. 91-02) and as established in special use hearings
required for cluster subdivision approval 1 ;
      4.   If the area of any individual residential lots in the cluster
subdivision (including internal local streets) is less than one and one-half
(11/2) acres (65,340 square feet), the balance of the area in the subdivision
which increases the average density to the minimum area requirements shall be
dedicated or reserved to public or recreational uses which are found necessary
or desirable to the community;
      5.   The use of the area devoted to public or recreational uses shall be
permanently assured and control of such uses shall be retained by the village;
      6.   The entire cluster subdivision shall be subdivided and developed as
one unit, unless each subunit shall meet all of the standards of a cluster
subdivision independently of the others; and
      7.   A sketch plan and supporting documents as provided in section
9-2-2-1 of this code shall be submitted and approved and incorporated as a
condition of the special use permit. (Ord. 81-04, 2-25-1981; amd. 1988 Code)
      8.   Such other and further conditions or requirements as the village
authorities may set forth when permitting the development of a particular area
as a cluster subdivision.
      9.   The developer of a cluster subdivision shall provide adequate
provisions for the future maintenance and control of the open spaces,
preservation areas, walkways and other facilities required by the village
authorities to be established in areas dedicated or reserved to public or
recreational uses. (Ord. 89-12, 7-26-1989)
   C.   Open space subdivision developments with individual residential lot
requirements reduced in lot area; provided, that the development shall meet the
following standards:
      1.   The minimum area of an open space subdivision development shall be
one hundred (100) acres with not less than forty (40) acres preserved in
perpetuity as public open space;
      2.   The total number of residential lots shall not exceed one lot per
one and one-half (11/2) acres (65,340 square feet) of land within the tract,
exclusive of internal roads and floodplains, if any; if the tract of land lies
within both the SR-1.5 and SR-1 districts, the total number of residential lots
shall not exceed the combined total of: a) one lot per one and one-half (11/2)
acres (65,340 square feet), exclusive of internal roads and floodplains, if
any, for that portion of the land lying in the SR-1.5 district, and b) one lot
per forty thousand (40,000) square feet, exclusive of internal roads and
floodplains, if any, for that portion of the land lying in the SR-1 district;
      3.   Each lot in the open space subdivision development shall meet the
following minimum requirements:
         a.   One hundred thirty foot (130') width at building line;
         b.   One hundred seventy five foot (175') lot depth;
         c.   Thirty foot (30') minimum front yard;
         d.   Twenty foot (20') side yard, except where adjoining open space,
in which even a fifteen foot (15') side yard shall be required, and except
where adjoining a roadway in which even a thirty foot (30') side yard shall be
required;
         e.   Forty foot (40') rear yard;
         f.   All accessory buildings, structures, patios and decks shall be
within building setback lines;
         g.   Driveways and off street parking shall not be located closer than
five feet (5') from any side or rear yard;
         h.   Total lot area of not less than twenty four thousand (24,000)
square feet; (Ord. 91-10, 12-18-1991)
         i.   Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the area of a lot may be
covered by principal buildings, and accessory buildings nor may more than six
thousand five hundred (6,500) square feet of living space be constructed on any
lot; provided, however, upon determination by the corporate authorities of the
village that a particular lot is of sufficient size, configuration and location
to allow living space in excess of six thousand five hundred (6,500) square
feet, the corporate authorities may vary and increase said six thousand five
hundred (6,500) square foot standard; provided that the total combined square
footage of all accessory buildings shall not exceed seventy five percent (75%)
of the square footage of the principal building including the area within an
attached garage, except in cases where the lot coverage of the principal
building and all accessory buildings and uses is less than fifteen percent
(15%), in which case the seventy five percent (75%) limitation on the combined
area of accessory buildings as a percentage of the square footage of the
principal building shall not apply, and up to ten percent (10%) of the area of
the lot may be covered by the combined area of all accessory buildings;
provided further, however, no such variance shall be granted except upon
submittal of specific plans and specifications, including landscaping and
driveway location, for the particular lot in question, for approval thereof by
the corporate authorities. For any accessory building receiving an exception to
the seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage of the first floor of the
principal building limit, the total combined square footage of all accessory
buildings shall not exceed 2,000 square feet, except on an agriculture
permitted use lot of five (5) acres or greater, and any detached garage
accessory building shall require an additional two (2) feet of setback for
every 100 square feet over 1,000 square feet from any side yard which adjoins a
street. No attached garage shall exceed thirty three percent (33%) of the
square footage of the principal residence. Any deviation from said plans,
specifications, landscaping or driveway location as approved by the corporate
authorities shall void any variance granted from said six thousand five hundred
(6,500) square foot requirement. Refer to section 8-5-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING AND
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE for additional provisions on total lot coverage
area limits.
      4.   Each lot shall be serviced by sanitary and storm sewer, curb and
gutter, and public or private water system;
      5.   Each lot in the open space subdivision development which adjoins an
existing residential lot shall, when combined with the open space area lying
between the open space lot and existing residential lot, contain not less than
forty thousand (40,000) square feet;
      6.   The use of the area devoted to open space shall be permanently
assured and control of such use shall be retained by the village;
      7.   The entire open space subdivision shall be subdivided and developed
as one unit;
      8.   A sketch plan and supporting documents as provided in section
9-2-2-1 of this code shall be submitted and approved and incorporated as a
condition of the special use permit;
      9.   Such other and further conditions or requirements as the village
authorities may set forth when permitting the development of a particular area
as an open space subdivision;
      10.   The developer of an open space subdivision shall make adequate
provision for the future maintenance and control of the open space,
preservation areas, walkways and other facilities required by the village
authorities to be established in areas dedicated or reserved to public or
recreational uses;
      11.   The tract of land is found by the corporate authorities of the
village to be physically and environmentally suitable for the proposed
development;
      12.   Unless a more strict standard is set forth in this subsection C, in
which even the more strict standard shall apply, each lot shall also comply
with the site and structure requirements set forth at section
8-5C-4 of this article. (Ord. 91-10, 12-18-1991; amd. Ord. 2007-O-15, 10-24-
2007; Ord. 2023-O-12, 7-26-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-10-1-3 of this title.
8-5C-4: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area, Frontage, Depth: Every lot, farm or other parcel of land
shall have a minimum area of one and one-half (11/2) acres, a minimum lot
frontage of one hundred thirty feet (130') and a minimum lot depth of one
hundred seventy five feet (175') for all permitted uses; except that, the
minimum lot frontage on a cul-de-sac shall be sixty five feet (65') and on a
curvilinear street, shall be one hundred feet (100') at the front lot line.
   B.   Building Coverage And Impervious Surface Coverage: For lots of forty
thousand (40,000) square feet or greater, maximum building coverage shall not
exceed twenty percent (20%) of the lot area and maximum impervious surface
coverage shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the lot area. For lots of
less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet, the provisions of subsection
8-5-7D of this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 2013-O-14, 10-23-2013)
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than thirty feet
(30') in depth; except that, in a cul-de-sac or on a curvilinear street, the
lot width at the building line shall be one hundred thirty feet (130') as
measured on an arc line from the center of the cul-de-sac or the center of the
curvature of the street to the building line.
      2.   Side Yard: There shall be two (2) side yards, each of which shall be
not less than fifteen feet (15') wide and a side yard adjoining a street shall
be not less than thirty feet (30') wide.
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than thirty feet
(30') in depth.
   D.   Building Height: Principal building height shall not exceed two and
one- half (21/2) stories above a basement story or thirty five feet (35'),
whichever is lower. Maximum accessory building heights shall be as stated in
subsection
8-5-6B of this chapter.
   E.   Ground Floor Area: One-story dwellings shall have a total habitable
ground floor area of not less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square
feet. Dwellings having more than one story shall have not less than one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of ground floor area. (Ord. 81-04, 2-
25-1981; amd. 1988 Code)
   F.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings except garages shall have
the same side yard and rear yard requirements as are required for the principal
building and shall not be closer to the front lot line than seventy five feet
(75'). Garages shall have the same side, rear and front yard requirements as
the principal building. No attached garage shall exceed forty five percent
(45%) of the square footage of the first floor of the principal residence. The
total combined square footage of all accessory buildings shall not exceed
seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage of the first floor of the
principal building, including the area within an attached garage, except in
cases where the lot coverage of the principal building and all accessory
buildings and uses is less than fifteen percent (15%), in which case the
seventy five percent (75%) limitation of the combined area of accessory
buildings as a percentage of the square footage of the principal building shall
not apply, and up to ten percent (10%) of the area of the lot may be covered by
accessory buildings. For any accessory building receiving an exception to the
seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage of the first floor of the
principal building limit, the total combined square footage of all accessory
buildings shall not exceed 2,000 square feet, except on an agriculture
permitted use lot of five ten (10) acres or greater, and any detached garage
accessory building shall require an additional two (2) feet of setback for
every 100 square feet over 1,000 square feet from any side yard which adjoins a
street. Refer to section 8-5-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING AND IMPERVIOUS SURFACE
COVERAGE for additional provisions on total lot coverage area limits. (Ord. 81-
04, 2-25-1981; amd. 1988 Code; Ord. 2013-O-14, 10-23-2013; Ord. 2023-O-12, 7-
26-2023; Ord. 2025-O-01, 1-22-2025)
ARTICLE D. SR-1 SUBURBAN RESIDENCE DISTRICT
(SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE, 1 ACRE)
SECTION:
8-5D-1: Applicability of Regulations
8-5D-2: Site and Structure Requirements
8-5D-3: Special Uses
8-5D-1: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS:
No building, structure or premises shall be used and no building or structure
shall be erected or altered within any SR-1 District, unless otherwise provided
for in this Title, except in conformity with the regulations established for
any SR-2 District as set forth in Article B of this Chapter, and except as
modified and superseded insofar as said regulations are in conflict with the
regulations established and set forth in this Article. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-60;
amd. Ord. 65-06, 10-23-65; 1988 Code)
8-5D-2: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area, Frontage, Depth: Every lot, farm or other parcel of land
shall have a minimum area of one acre, a minimum lot frontage of one hundred
thirty feet (130'), and a minimum lot depth of one hundred seventy five feet
(175') for all permitted uses; except that, the minimum lot frontage on a cul-
de-sac shall be sixty five feet (65') and on a curvilinear street shall be one
hundred feet (100') at the front lot line.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Side Yards: There shall be two (2) side yards, each of which shall
be not less than fifteen feet (15') wide and a side yard adjoining a street
shall not be less than thirty feet (30') wide.
      2.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less
than thirty feet (30').
   C.   Ground Floor Area: One-story dwellings shall have a total habitable
ground floor area of not less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square
feet. Dwellings having more than one story shall have not less than one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of ground floor area.
   D.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings except garages shall have
the same side yard and rear yard requirements as are required for the principal
building and shall not be closer to the front lot line than seventy five feet
(75'). Garages shall have the same side, rear and front yard requirements as
the principal building. No attached garage shall exceed forty-five percent
(45%) of the square footage of the first floor of the principal residence. The
total combined square footage of all accessory buildings shall not exceed
seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage of the first floor of the
principal building, including the area within an attached garage, except in
cases where the lot coverage of the principal building and all accessory
buildings and uses is less than fifteen percent (15%), in which case the
seventy five percent (75%) limitation of the combined area of accessory
buildings as a percentage of the square footage of the principal building shall
not apply, and up to ten percent (10%) of the area of the lot may be covered by
accessory buildings. For any accessory building receiving an exception to the
seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage of the first floor of the
principal building limit, the total combined square footage of all accessory
buildings shall not exceed 2,000 square feet, except on an agriculture
permitted use lot of ten (10) acres or greater, and any detached garage
accessory building shall require an additional two (2) feet of setback for
every 100 square feet over 1,000 square feet from any side yard which adjoins a
street. Refer to section
8-5-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING AND IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE for additional
provisions on total lot coverage area limits. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-60; amd. Ord.
65-06, 10-23-65; Ord. 72-06, 11-22-72; Ord. 78-03, 2-16-78; 1988 Code; Ord.
2025-O-01, 1-22-2025)
8-5D-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following special uses are permitted if and only if approved pursuant to
subsection
8-10-1-1B of this Title:
   A.   Open space subdivision developments with individual residential lot
requirements reduced in lot area, provided that the development shall meet the
following standards:
      1.   The minimum area of an open space subdivision development shall be
one hundred (100) acres with not less than forty (40) acres preserved in
perpetuity as public open space;
      2.   The total number of residential lots shall not exceed one lot per
forty thousand (40,000) square feet of land within the tract, exclusive of
internal roads and flood plain, if any; if the tract of land lies within both
the SR-1 and SR-1.5 Districts, the total number of residential lots shall not
exceed the combined total of, a) one lot per one and one-half (11/2) acres
(65,340 square feet) exclusive of internal roads and flood plains, if any, for
that portion of the land lying in the SR-1.5 District, and b) one lot per forty
thousand (40,000) square feet, exclusive of internal roads and flood plain, if
any, for that portion of the land lying in the SR-1 District;
      3.   Each lot in the open space subdivision development shall meet the
following minimum requirements:
         a.   One hundred thirty foot (130') width at building line;
         b.   One hundred seventy five foot (175') lot depth;
         c.   Thirty foot (30') minimum front yard;
         d.   Twenty foot (20') side yard, except where adjoining open space,
in which event a fifteen foot (15') side yard shall be required, and except
where adjoining a roadway, in which event a thirty foot (30') side yard shall
be required;
         e.   Forty foot (40') rear yard;
         f.   All accessory buildings, structures, patios and decks shall be
within building setback lines;
         g.   Driveways and off street parking shall not be located closer than
five feet (5') from any side or rear yard;
         h.   Total lot area of not less than twenty four thousand (24,000)
square feet;
         i.   Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the area of a lot may be
covered by principal buildings, and accessory buildings nor may more than six
thousand five hundred (6,500) square feet of living space be constructed on any
lot; provided, however, upon determination by the corporate authorities of the
village that a particular lot is of sufficient size, configuration and location
to allow living space in excess of six thousand five hundred (6,500) square
feet, the corporate authorities may vary and increase said six thousand five
hundred (6,500) square foot standard; provided that the total combined square
footage of all accessory buildings shall not exceed seventy five percent (75%)
of the square footage of the principal building including the area within an
attached garage, except in cases where the lot coverage of the principal
building and all accessory buildings and uses is less than fifteen percent
(15%), in which case the seventy five percent (75%) limitation on the combined
area of accessory buildings as a percentage of the square footage of the
principal building shall not apply, and up to ten percent (10%) of the area of
the lot may be covered by the combined area of all accessory buildings;
provided further, however, no such variance shall be granted except upon
submittal of specific plans and specifications, including landscaping and
driveway location, for the particular lot in question, for approval thereof by
the corporate authorities. For any accessory building receiving an exception to
the seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage of the first floor of the
principal building limit, the total combined square footage of all accessory
buildings shall not exceed 2,000 square feet, except on an agriculture
permitted use lot of five (5) acres or greater, and any detached garage
accessory building shall require an additional two (2) feet of setback for
every 100 square feet over 1,000 square feet from any side yard which adjoins a
street. No attached garage shall exceed thirty three percent (33%) of the
square footage of the principal residence. Any deviation from said plans,
specifications, landscaping or driveway location as approved by the corporate
authorities shall void any variance granted from said six thousand five hundred
(6,500) square foot requirement. Refer to section
8-5-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING AND IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE for additional
provisions on total lot coverage area limits.
      4.   Each lot shall be serviced by sanitary and storm sewer, curb and
gutter, and public or private water system;
      5.   Each lot in the open space subdivision development which adjoins an
existing residential lot shall, when combined with the open space area lying
between the open space lot and existing residential lot, contain no less than
forty thousand (40,000) square feet;
      6.   The use of the area devoted to open space shall be permanently
assured and control of such use shall be retained by the village;
      7.   The entire open space subdivision shall be subdivided and developed
as one unit;
      8.   A sketch plan and supporting documents as provided in section
9-2-2-1 of this code shall be submitted and approved and incorporated as a
condition of the special use permit;
      9.   Such other and further conditions or requirements as the village
authorities may set forth when permitting the development of a particular area
as an open space subdivision;
      10.   The developer of an open space subdivision shall make adequate
provision for the future maintenance and control of the open space,
preservation areas, walkways and other facilities required by the village
authorities to be established in areas dedicated or reserved to public or
recreational uses;
      11.   The tract of land is found by the corporate authorities of the
village to be physically and environmentally suitable for the proposed
development;
      12.   Unless a more strict standard is set forth in this subsection A, in
which event the more strict standard shall apply, each lot shall also comply
with the site and structure requirements set forth at section
8-5C-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Cluster open space subdivision developments, which shall be restricted
to property located in close proximity to land zoned for intensive industrial
use and adjacent to a golf course, and with individual residential lot
requirements reduced in lot area; provided, that the development shall meet the
following standards:
      1.   Density: The maximum number of houses permitted shall not exceed one
dwelling per acre (43,560 square feet) of gross site area. The gross site area
shall not include any perimeter street rights of way or any floodplain land.
      2.   Unit Types: Only detached single-family dwelling units shall be
permitted.
      3.   Unit Sizes: The minimum size house shall be one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet and the maximum permitted size shall be three
thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet of habitable floor area.
      4.   Accessory Uses: Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the area of a
lot may be covered by principal buildings, and accessory buildings nor may more
than six thousand five hundred (6,500) square feet of living space be
constructed on any lot; provided, however, upon determination by the corporate
authorities of the village that a particular lot is of sufficient size,
configuration and location to allow living space in excess of six thousand five
hundred (6,500) square feet, the corporate authorities may vary and increase
said six thousand five hundred (6,500) square foot standard, provided that the
total combined square footage of all accessory buildings shall not exceed
seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage of the principal building,
including the area within an attached garage, except in cases where the lot
coverage of the principal building and all accessory buildings and uses is less
than fifteen percent (15%), in which case the seventy five percent (75%)
limitation on the combined area of accessory buildings as a percentage of the
square footage of the principal building shall not apply, and up to ten percent
(10%) of the area of the lot may be covered by the combined area of all
accessory buildings; provided further, however, no such variance shall be
granted except upon submittal of specific plans and specifications, including
landscaping and driveway location, for the particular lot in question, for
approval thereof by the corporate authorities. For any accessory building
receiving an exception to the seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage
of the first floor of the principal building limit, the total combined square
footage of all accessory buildings shall not exceed 2,000 square feet, except
on an agriculture permitted use lot of five (5) acres or greater, and any
detached garage accessory building shall require an additional two (2) feet of
setback for every 100 square feet over 1,000 square feet from any side yard
which adjoins a street. No attached garage shall exceed thirty three percent
(33%) of the square footage of the principal building. Any deviation from said
plans, specifications, landscaping or driveway location as approved by the
corporate authorities shall void any variance granted from said six thousand
five hundred (6,500) square foot requirement. Refer to section
8-5-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING AND IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE for additional
provisions on total lot coverage area limits.
      5.   Open Space: The minimum area of permanent open space within a
cluster open space subdivision shall not be less than sixty percent (60%) of
the gross site area of the subdivision.
      6.   Buildable Area On A Lot: The minimum buildable area on a lot
measured within the setback lines of the lot shall not be less than four
thousand six hundred seventy five (4,675) square feet and not less than fifty
five feet (55') in any dimension. All structures on a lot shall be within the
buildable area and no accessory structures, patios, decks, etc., are permitted
outside the buildable area.
      7.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum area of a lot shall not be less than
ten thousand six hundred fifty (10,650) square feet.
      8.   Minimum Lot Frontage: The minimum width of a lot shall be eighty
five feet (85') measured at the minimum front setback line.
      9.   Setbacks: The following minimum setbacks shall define the buildable
area of any lot:
         a.   Front or side abutting any cul-de-sac street: Thirty feet (30')
from edge of pavement.
         b.   Front or side abutting any through street: Thirty feet (30') from
property line.
         c.   Side: Fifteen feet (15').
         d.   Rear: Thirty feet (30').
      10.   Separation (Buffer) Standards:
         a.   Separation between the rear to rear, or the side to rear
buildable areas on adjoining lots shall not be less than seventy five feet
(75'). This separation may include land which is permanent open space.
         b.   Landscape buffer yard separation between any lot line and any
golf course property line shall be permanent open space not less than forty
five feet (45') in width. Such buffer areas shall be densely landscaped to
provide privacy between the residents of the subdivision and players on any
adjoining golf course.
      11.   Driveways: Driveways shall not be closer than five feet (5') from
any side lot line.
      12.   Minimum Subdivision Size: The minimum area of any cluster open
space subdivision shall be fifty (50) acres.
      13.   Plans: A sketch plan or preliminary site plan and supporting
documents shall be submitted and approved and incorporated as a condition of
the special use permit.
      14.   Phasing: The entire cluster open space subdivision shall only be
subdivided and developed as one phase of one unit of subdivision. Phased or
staged subdivisions shall not be permitted.
      15.   Utilities: A cluster open space subdivision shall be serviced by
sanitary and storm sewer, curb and gutter, and public potable water.
      16.   Site Planning Standards: All lots within a cluster open space
subdivision shall front on cul-de-sac streets and a maximum of ten (10) lots
only shall be permitted per cul-de- sac.
      17.   Other Conditions: Such other and further conditions or requirements
as the village authorities may set forth when permitting the development of a
particular cluster open space subdivision shall be incorporated as a condition
of the special use permit.
   C.   Transitional cluster subdivision developments, which shall be
restricted to vacant property which provides for a transition between existing
conventionally subdivided SR-1 property and existing subdivided or developed
nonresidential property, and with individual residential lot requirements
reduced in lot area; provided, that the development shall meet the following
standards:
      1.   Density: The maximum number of houses permitted shall not exceed one
dwelling per acre (43,560 square feet) of gross site area. The gross site area
shall not include any perimeter street rights of way or any floodplain land.
      2.   Unit Types: Only detached single-family dwelling units shall be
permitted.
      3.   Unit Sizes: The minimum size house shall be two thousand three
hundred (2,300) square feet of habitable floor area.
      4.   Accessory Uses: Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the area of a
lot may be covered by principal buildings and accessory buildings nor may more
than six thousand five hundred (6,500) square feet of living space be
constructed on any lot; provided, however, upon determination by the corporate
authorities of the village that a particular lot is of sufficient size,
configuration and location to allow living space in excess of six thousand five
hundred (6,500) square feet, the corporate authorities may vary and increase
said six thousand five hundred (6,500) square foot standard, provided that the
total combined square footage of all accessory buildings shall not exceed
seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage of the principal building,
including the area within an attached garage, except in cases where the lot
coverage of the principal building and all accessory buildings and uses is less
than fifteen percent (15%), in which case the seventy five percent (75%)
limitation on the combined area of accessory buildings as a percentage of the
square footage of the principal building shall not apply, and up to ten percent
(10%) of the area of the lot may be covered by the combined area of all
accessory buildings; provided further, however, no such variance shall be
granted except upon submittal of specific plans and specifications, including
landscaping and driveway location, for the particular lot in question, for
approval thereof by the corporate authorities. For any accessory building
receiving an exception to the seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage
of the first floor of the principal building limit, the total combined square
footage of all accessory buildings shall not exceed 2,000 square feet, except
on an agriculture permitted use lot of five (5) acres or greater, and any
detached garage accessory building shall require an additional two (2) feet of
setback for every 100 square feet over 1,000 square feet from any side yard
which adjoins a street. No attached garage shall exceed thirty three percent
(33%) of the square footage of the principal building. Any deviation from said
plans, specifications, landscaping or driveway location as approved by the
corporate authorities shall void any variance granted from said six thousand
five hundred (6,500) square foot requirement. Refer to section
8-5-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING AND IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE for additional
provisions on total lot coverage area limits.
      5.   Open Space: The minimum area of "permanent open space" within a
cluster open space subdivision shall not be less than forty percent (40%) of
the gross site area of the subdivision.
      6.   Buildable Area On A Lot:
         a.   The minimum buildable area on a lot measured within the setback
lines of the lot shall not be less than six thousand (6,000) square feet. No
lot shall have a building area boundary dimension of less than fifty feet (50')
and the combined dimension of any two (2) contiguous rectangular building area
boundaries shall be not less than one hundred thirty feet (130'). All
structures on a lot shall be within the buildable area and no accessory
structures, patios, decks, etc., are permitted outside the buildable area.
(Ord. 95-01, 2-1-1995)
         b.   On lakefront lots, decks or piers are permitted within the rear
yard setback area between the side yard setback lines extended only if located
on an easement provided for that purpose and which easement shall not be more
than twenty feet (20') beyond the rear setback line or ten feet (10') beyond
the high water line of the lake, whichever is greater. All decks and piers
shall conform to state and village standards.
      7.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum area of a lot shall not be less than
fourteen thousand six hundred (14,600) square feet.
      8.   Minimum Lot Frontage: The minimum width of a lot shall be one
hundred feet (100') measured at the minimum front setback line.
      9.   Setbacks: The following minimum setbacks shall define the buildable
area of any lot:
         a.   Front or side abutting any cul-de-sac street: Thirty feet (30')
from edge of pavement; (Ord. 93-30, 11-3-1993)
         b.   Front or side abutting any through street: Thirty feet (30') from
property line or sixty feet (60') from the centerline of the street, whichever
is greater; (Ord. 95-01, 2-1-1995)
         c.   Side: Fifteen feet (15');
         d.   Rear: Thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 93-30, 11-3-1993)
      10.   Landscaped Buffer Easement: A permanent thirty foot (30') wide
landscaped buffer easement area shall be established along all property lines
which are contiguous with any lot line of any adjoining residential
subdivision, highway or railroad. Such easements shall be considered permanent
open space and shall be maintained by the developer or a homeowners'
association. Such buffer areas shall be densely landscaped to provide privacy
for the subdivision and of the adjoining subdivision. (Ord. 95-01, 2-1-1995)
      11.   Driveways: Driveways shall not be closer than five feet (5') from
any side lot line or landscaped buffer easement.
      12.   Minimum Subdivision Size: The minimum area of any transitional
cluster subdivision shall be twenty five (25) acres.
      13.   Plans: A sketch plan or preliminary site plan and supporting
documents shall be submitted and approved and incorporated as a condition of
the special use permit.
      14.   Phasing: The preliminary plat and preliminary engineering plans for
a transitional cluster subdivision shall only be accepted for review and
approval for the entire subdivision. The staged recording of final plat phases
shall only be permitted for those parts of the subdivision with no
interconnecting or interdependent roadway, pedestrian circulation, drainage or
utility improvements.
      15.   Utilities: A cluster open space subdivision shall be serviced by
public potable water if available, sanitary and storm sewer, and curb and
gutter. (Ord. 93-30, 11-3-1993)
      16.   Site Planning Standards: All open space areas within the
subdivision within a transitional cluster subdivision shall be accessible from
either a public pedestrian trail or a public street or right of way. The public
pedestrian trail system shall provide access to adjoining residential
subdivisions. Sidewalks on an internal local public street right of way may be
part of the pedestrian trail system. (Ord. 95-01, 2-1-1995)
      17.   Other Conditions: Such other and further conditions or requirements
as the village authorities may set forth when permitting the development of a
particular cluster open space subdivision shall be incorporated as a condition
of the special use permit. (Ord. 93-30, 11-3-1993)
      18.   Density Bonus: Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing
subsections, the maximum number of residential lots permitted may be increased
by the board of trustees under the following conditions and pursuant to the
findings set forth:
         a.   When the proposed development involves a change in zoning
classification from a nonresidential use, it must contain the following bonus
features:
            (1)   A sixty percent (60%) reduction in the requirements for
sanitary sewer and potable water services from that required to serve the
nonresidential use of the property.
            (2)   A ninety percent (90%) reduction in projected average daily
trips (ADT) of site generated traffic from that projected for the
nonresidential use of the property.
         b.   All proposed developments must contain all of the following bonus
features:
            (1)   Designation of not less than forty percent (40%) of the gross
project area as permanent open space by conveyance or easement as the village
may require.
            (2)   Enhanced improvements which are in addition to the
requirements of the village but which are the maintenance responsibility of the
developer or a homeowners' association with adequate enforcement provisions,
such as:
               (A)   Sidewalks or trails.
               (B)   Streetlights.
               (C)   Extensive landscaping and/or berming to screen the
development from adjoining subdivision, highways and railroads.
            (3)   Enhanced potential assessed valuation for school and general
tax purposes by assuring that residence construction will be of high quality
and that habitable floor area shall be a minimum of two thousand three hundred
(2,300) square feet per dwelling unit.
            (4)   Parkway landscaping which shall meet the following standards:
               (A)   Plans and specifications for required street/parkway
landscaping shall be submitted as part of the final engineering plans for the
subdivision.
               (B)   The street frontage of the lots shall be planted with
native trees and shrubbery. The plant material shall not be planted in a row
along the street, but clustered and randomly spaced on the thirty feet (30') of
street frontage setback area.
               (C)   The minimum number of trees shall be one 21/2-inch tree
per fifty feet (50') of street frontage on each side, and four (4) 4-foot
shrubs per fifty feet (50') of street frontage on each side.
               (D)   With appropriate guarantees by the developer, the actual
planting of the trees and shrubbery may be deferred until the time a building
permit is issued.
         c.   The corporate authorities of the village must determine that the
benefits of the proposed development containing the reduction in sanitary sewer
and potable water services, reduction in projected average daily traffic, open
space, enhanced improvements, and enhanced assessed valuation, merit
consideration of a bonus density for the development.
         d.   The corporate authorities shall determine the number of
additional single-family dwellings that shall be granted in consideration of
the benefits proposed, provided that the maximum number of single-family
dwellings permitted shall not exceed one hundred fifteen percent (115%) of the
number otherwise permitted in subsection C1 of this section. (Ord. 95-01, 2-1-
1995)
   D.   Bonus cluster subdivision developments with individual residential lot
requirements reduced in lot area; provided, that the development shall meet the
following standards:
      1.   Density: The maximum number of single-family dwellings permitted
shall not exceed one dwelling per acre (43,560 square feet) of gross site area,
including perimeter street rights of way and regulatory wetlands, but excluding
any floodplain land.
      2.   Density Bonus: Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection D1 of
this section, the maximum number of dwellings permitted may be increased by the
board of trustees under the following conditions and pursuant to the findings
set forth:
         a.   The specific proposed development must contain all of the
following bonus features:
            (1)   Facilities designed to alleviate existing flood control
problems beyond the normal stormwater detention requirements of the village
ordinances.
            (2)   Designation of not less than twenty five percent (25%) of the
gross project area as permanent open space by conveyance or easement as the
village may require.
            (3)   Enhanced improvements which are in addition to the
requirements of the village but which are the maintenance responsibility of the
developer or a homeowners' association with adequate enforcement provisions,
such as:
               (A) Sidewalks.
               (B) Streetlights.
               (C) Extensive landscaping and/or berming to screen the
development from adjoining subdivision and collector streets.
               (D) Limited access to collector streets.
               (E) Routing of public improvements to aid the village in
extending utilities to adjacent areas.
            (4)   Enhanced potential assessed valuations for school and general
tax purposes by assuring that residence construction will be of high quality
and that habitable floor areas shall exceed two thousand eight hundred fifty
(2,850) square feet.
         b.   The corporate authorities of the village must determine that the
benefits of the proposed development containing the stormwater control
facilities, open space, enhanced improvements, and enhanced assessed
valuations, merit consideration of a bonus density for the development.
         c.   The corporate authorities shall determine the number of
additional single-family dwellings that shall be granted in consideration of
the benefits proposed; provided, that the maximum number of single-family
dwellings permitted shall not exceed one hundred fifteen percent (115%) of the
number otherwise permitted in subsection D1 of this section relating to bonus
cluster subdivisions.
      3.   Additional Criteria: Every bonus cluster subdivision development
shall meet all of the following criteria in addition to the bonus features
which entitle the development to added units:
         a.   Unit Type: Only detached single-family units shall be permitted.
(Ord. 94-07, 5-25-1994)
         b.   Accessory Uses: Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the area of
a lot may be covered by principal buildings, and accessory buildings nor may
more than six thousand five hundred (6,500) square feet of living space be
constructed on any lot; provided, however, upon determination by the corporate
authorities of the village that a particular lot is of sufficient size,
configuration and location to allow living space in excess of six thousand five
hundred (6,500) square feet, the corporate authorities may vary and increase
said six thousand five hundred (6,500) square foot standard, provided that the
total combined square footage of all accessory buildings shall not exceed
seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage of the principal building,
including the area within an attached garage, except in cases where the lot
coverage of the principal building and all accessory buildings and uses is less
than fifteen percent (15%), in which case the seventy five percent (75%)
limitation on the combined area of accessory buildings as a percentage of the
square footage of the principal building shall not apply, and up to ten percent
(10%) of the area of the lot may be covered by the combined area of all
accessory buildings; provided further, however, no such variance shall be
granted except upon submittal of specific plans and specifications, including
landscaping and driveway location, for the particular lot in question, for
approval thereof by the corporate authorities. For any accessory building
receiving an exception to the seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage
of the first floor of the principal building limit, the total combined square
footage of all accessory buildings shall not exceed 2,000 square feet, except
on an agriculture permitted use lot of five (5) acres or greater, and any
detached garage accessory building shall require an additional two (2) feet of
setback for every 100 square feet over 1,000 square feet from any side yard
which adjoins a street. No attached garage shall exceed thirty three percent
(33%) of the square footage of the principal building. Any deviation from said
plans, specifications, landscaping or driveway location as approved by the
corporate authorities shall void any variance granted from said six thousand
five hundred (6,500) square foot requirement. Refer to section
8-5-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING AND IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE for additional
provisions on total lot coverage area limits.
         c.   Open Space: Permanent open space shall consist of granted open
space, detention easements and landscape buffer easements, all of which shall
be maintained by the developer or a homeowners' association, unless otherwise
determined by the village.
         d.   Buildable Area On A Lot: The minimum buildable area on a lot
measured within the setback lines of the lot shall not be less than six
thousand (6,000) square feet and not less than seventy feet (70') in any
dimension. All structures on a lot shall be within the buildable area and no
accessory structures, patios, decks, etc., are permitted outside the buildable
area.
         e.   Unit Sizes: The minimum size single-family dwelling shall be two
thousand eight hundred fifty (2,850) square feet of habitable area or such
larger area as may be agreed upon by the developer in seeking a density bonus.
         f.   Minimum Lot Area And Frontage: Notwithstanding the bonus density
granted, the minimum area of a lot shall not be less than twenty one thousand
four hundred (21,400) square feet and the minimum width of a lot shall be one
hundred feet (100') measured at the minimum front yard setback line.
         g.   Setbacks: The following minimum setbacks shall define the
buildable area of any lot:
            (1)   Front or side abutting any internal local street: Thirty feet
(30') from property line.
            (2)   Front, side or rear abutting any collector or arterial
street: Forty feet (40') from property line.
            (3)   Side: Fifteen feet (15') from property line or from
stormwater detention easement line.
            (4)   Rear: Thirty feet (30') from property line or from stormwater
detention easement.
         h.   Landscaped Buffer Easement:
            (1)   A permanent thirty foot (30') wide landscaped buffer easement
area shall be established along all property lines which are contiguous with
any lot line of any adjoining residential subdivision, and shall be densely
landscaped or screened to provide privacy for the benefit of the residents of
the adjoining subdivision.
            (2)   A permanent forty foot (40') wide landscaped berm and buffer
easement shall be established along all property lines which abut any collector
or arterial roadway.
            (3)   All such buffer easements shall be established as open space
and maintained by the developer or a homeowners' association.
         i.   Driveways: Driveways shall not be permitted closer than five feet
(5') from any side property line or easement line.
         j.   Minimum Subdivision Size: The minimum gross area of any bonus
cluster subdivision shall be thirty five (35) acres.
         k.   Plans: A sketch plan or preliminary site plan and supporting
documents shall be submitted and approved and incorporated as a condition of
the special use permit.
         l.   Phasing: The preliminary plat, engineering plans, and final plat
shall only be accepted for review and approval for the entire subdivision. No
phasing shall be allowed.
         m.   Utilities: A bonus cluster subdivision shall be serviced by
public potable water supply, sanitary sewage system, and storm sewer system
with curb and gutter street drainage in addition to any enhancements provided
to obtain density bonus.
         n.   Trail Systems: All lots shall have pedestrian access to common
open space areas within the subdivision, and shall have access to a pedestrian
trail system which connects to all adjoining residential subdivisions.
Sidewalks on a public street right of way along one side of an internal local
street may be part of such pedestrian trail system.
         o.   Parkway Landscaping Standards: Bonus cluster subdivisions shall
meet the following standards:
            (1)   Plans and specifications for required street/parkway
landscaping shall be submitted as part of the final engineering plans for the
subdivision.
            (2)   The street frontage of the lots shall be planted with native
trees and shrubbery. The plant material shall not be planted in a row along the
street, but clustered and randomly spaced on the thirty foot (30') street
frontage setback area.
            (3)   The minimum number of trees shall be one 21/2-inch caliper
tree per fifty feet (50') of street frontage and four (4) 4-foot shrubs per
fifty feet (50') of street frontage.
            (4)   With appropriate guarantees by the developer, the actual
planting of the trees and shrubbery may be deferred until the time a building
permit is issued.
         p.   Other Conditions: Such other and further conditions or
requirements as the village authorities may set forth when permitting the
development of a specific bonus cluster subdivision as may be appropriate to
assure that the subdivision meets the intent and purpose of this special use.
(Ord. 94-07, 5-25-1994)
   E.   Infill cluster subdivision development with individual residential lot
requirements reduced in lot area, provided that the development shall meet the
following standards:
      1.   Density: The maximum number of single-family dwellings permitted
shall not exceed one dwelling per acre (43,560 square feet) of gross site area.
      2.   Unit Types: Only detached single-family dwelling units shall be
permitted.
      3.   Unit Sizes: The minimum size house shall be two thousand six hundred
(2,600) square feet of habitable floor area.
      4.   Lot Coverage For Principal And Accessory Buildings: Refer to section
8-5-2, table 1 of this chapter and to section
8-5-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING AND IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE for additional
provisions on total lot coverage area limits.
      5.   Open Space: The minimum area of "permanent open space" within the
infill cluster subdivision, including stormwater detention basin shall not be
less than ten percent (10%) of the gross site area.
      6.   Buildable Area On A Lot:
         a.   The minimum buildable area on a lot measured within the setback
lines of the lot and as designated on the plat of subdivision shall not be less
than six thousand (6,000) square feet. No lot shall have a building area
boundary dimension of less than fifty feet (50') and the combined dimension of
any two (2) contiguous building area boundaries shall not be less than one
hundred thirty feet (130'). All structures on a lot shall be within the
buildable area and no accessory structures, patios, decks, etc., are permitted
outside the buildable area.
         b.   On lots adjacent to stormwater detention facilities decks are
permitted within the rear yard setback area between the side yard setback lines
extended only if located on an easement provided for that purpose and which
easement shall not be more than twenty feet (20') beyond the rear yard setback
line or ten feet (10') beyond the high water line of the detention basin or
detention discharge channel, whichever is greater. All decks shall conform to
state and village standards.
      7.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum area of a lot shall not be less than
thirty six thousand (36,000) square feet.
      8.   Minimum Lot Frontage: The minimum lot frontage shall be one hundred
thirty feet (130') on a curvilinear street frontage and sixty five feet (65')
on a cul-de-sac street frontage.
      9.   Setbacks: The following minimum setbacks shall define the buildable
area of any lot:
         a.   Front or side abutting any street: Thirty feet (30') from the
edge of the lot line abutting the street.
         b.   Side: Fifteen feet (15').
         c.   Rear: Thirty feet (30'), if not abutting an adjacent residential
subdivision.
         d.   Rear: Sixty feet (60') if abutting an adjacent residential
subdivision.
      10.   Landscape Buffer Easement: A permanent twenty foot (20') wide
landscaped buffer easement area shall be established along all property lines
which are contiguous with any adjoining a highway. Such easements shall be
considered permanent open space and shall be maintained by the developer or
homeowners abutting the easement. Such buffer area shall include landscaping to
provide a visual buffer between the abutting properties and the highway, except
for along residential properties where the home that is on that residential
property was constructed before the development of the infill cluster
subdivision and where the home will continue to remain as part of the special
use infill cluster subdivision. At a minimum, the landscaping along this area
shall include a mix of deciduous canopy and ornamental trees, and evergreen
trees as well as staggered rows of deciduous and evergreen shrubs that are
initially planted at a minimum height of thirty six inches (36"), and a
specific landscape plan shall be submitted at the time of the application for
the special use for review and recommendations by the plan commission for
approval by the village board.
      11.   Driveways: Driveways shall not be closer than ten feet (10') from
any side lot line or landscaped buffer easement.
      12.   Minimum And Maximum Subdivision Size: The minimum area of any
infill cluster subdivision shall be seven (7) acres, and the maximum area of
any infill cluster subdivision shall be fifteen (15) acres.
      13.   Plans: A sketch plan or preliminary site plan and supporting
documents shall be submitted and approved and incorporated as a condition of
the special use permit.
      14.   Phasing: The preliminary plat and preliminary engineering plans for
an infill cluster subdivision shall only be accepted for review and approval
for the entire subdivision. Staged recording of the final plat shall not be
permitted.
      15.   Utilities: An infill cluster subdivision shall be serviced by
public potable water, sanitary sewer and storm sewer and curb and gutter.
      16.   Site Planning Standards: All open space areas within the
subdivision shall be accessible from either a public pedestrian trail or a
public street right of way except the street parkway shall provide access to
adjoining residential subdivision.
      17.   Tree Preservation: All trees over eight inches (8") in diameter
measured at breast height on the residential lots after completion of the
subdivision mass grading, roadway, and utility improvements are designated as
protected trees and will be designated on the subdivision plat. Removal of any
protected tree shall be permitted by the village authorities and replaced with
trees totaling a minimum of one-half (1/2) the total diameter of the tree or
trees being removed within the residential lot. A landscaping plan must be
submitted and approved prior to removal of any tree or trees on a residential
lot including trees that are damaged or diseased.
      18.   Other Conditions: Such other and further conditions or requirements
as the village authorities may set forth when permitting the development of a
particular infill cluster subdivision shall be incorporated as a condition of
the special use permit.
      19.   Parkway Landscaping Standards: Infill cluster subdivisions shall
meet the following standards:
         a.   Plans and specifications for required street/parkway/cul-de-sac
landscaping shall be submitted as part of the final engineering plans for the
subdivision.
         b.   The street frontage of lots shall be planted with native trees
and shrubbery. Plant material shall not be planted in a row along the street,
but clustered and randomly spaced on the thirty foot (30') street frontage
setback area.
         c.   The minimum number of trees shall be one 21/2-inch caliper tree
per fifty feet (50') on average of street frontage and four (4) shrubs per
fifty feet (50') on average of street frontage except at preexisting
residential buildings.
         d.   With appropriate guarantees by the developer, the actual planting
of trees and shrubbery may be deferred until final landscaping is completed for
each individual lot. (Ord. 91-10, 12-18-1991; amd. Ord. 93-01, 1-27-1993; Ord.
93-30, 11-3-1993; Ord. 94-07, 5-25-1994; Ord. 2007-O-15, 10-24-2007; Ord. 2015-
O-08, 5-27-2015; Ord. 2023-O-12, 7-26-2023)
ARTICLE E. SR-1A SUBURBAN RESIDENCE DISTRICT
(SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE, 1 ACRE)
SECTION:
8-5E-1: Applicability of Regulations
8-5E-2: Site and Structure Requirements
8-5E-1: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS:
No building, structure or premises shall be used and no building or structure
shall be hereafter erected or altered within any SR-1A District, unless
otherwise provided for in this Title, except in conformity with the regulations
established for any SR-2 District as set forth in Article B of this Chapter and
SR-1 District as set forth in Article D of this Chapter and except as modified
and superseded insofar as said regulations are in conflict with the regulations
established and set forth in this Article.
8-5E-2: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area, Width: Every lot, farm or other parcel of land shall have a
minimum area of one acre and a width at the building line of at least one
hundred thirty feet (130'); except that, the minimum lot frontage on a cul-de-
sac shall be sixty five feet (65') and on a curvilinear street shall be one
hundred feet (100') at the front lot line.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less
than thirty feet (30'); except that, in a cul-de-sac or on a curvilinear
street, the lot width at the building line shall be one hundred thirty feet
(130') as measured on an arc line from the center of the cul-de-sac or center
of the curvature of the street to the building line.
      2.   There shall be two (2) side yards, each of which shall be not less
than thirteen feet (13') wide and a side yard adjoining a street shall not be
less than thirty feet (30') wide.
      3.   There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than thirty
feet (30').
   C.   Ground Floor Area: One-story dwellings shall have a total habitable
ground floor area of not less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square
feet. Dwellings having more than one story shall have not less than one
thousand (1,000) square feet of ground floor area.
   D.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings except garages shall have
the same side yard and rear yard requirements as are required for the principal
building and shall not be closer to the front lot line than seventy five feet
(75'). Garages shall have the same side, rear and front yard requirements and
shall be attached to the principal building. No attached garage shall exceed
forty five percent (45%) of the square footage of the first floor of the
principal residence. The total combined square footage of all accessory
buildings shall not exceed seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage of
the first floor of the principal building, including the area within an
attached garage, except in cases where the lot coverage of the principal
building and all accessory buildings and uses is less than fifteen percent
(15%), in which case the seventy five percent (75%) limitation of the combined
area of accessory buildings as a percentage of the square footage of the
principal building shall not apply, and up to ten percent (10%) of the area of
the lot may be covered by accessory buildings. For any accessory building
receiving an exception to the seventy five percent (75%) of the square footage
of the first floor of the principal building limit, the total combined square
footage of all accessory buildings shall not exceed 2,000 square feet, except
on an agriculture permitted use lot of ten (10) acres or greater, and any
detached garage accessory building shall require an additional two (2) feet of
setback for every 100 square feet over 1,000 square feet from any side yard
which adjoins a street. Refer to section
8-5-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING AND IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE for additional
provisions on total lot coverage area limits. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-60; amd. Ord.
65-06, 10-23-65; Ord. 72-06, 11-22-72; Ord. 76-02, 6-23-76; Ord. 78-03, 2-16-
78; 1988 Code; Ord. 2023-O-12, 7-26-2023; Ord. 2025-O-01, 1-22-2025)
CHAPTER 6
AG AGRICULTURE DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-6-1: District Established
8-6-2: Intent
8-6-3: Applicability Of Regulations
8-6-4: Permitted Uses
8-6-5: Special Uses
8-6-6: Site And Structure Requirements
8-6-1: DISTRICT ESTABLISHED: 
The AG district is established as a zone in which agriculture uses are allowed
in a manner that is harmonious with a suburban residential area. (Ord. 2025-O-
01, 1-22-2025)
8-6-2: INTENT:
The specific intent of the district is to facilitate the proper use of lands
best suited for agriculture within a suburban residential area. The district
provides for area of high-quality agricultural land to be used for these
purposes while also preserving and buffering surrounding low-density
residential uses from potential negative impacts associated with agricultural
operations and practices. (Ord. 2025-O-01, 1-22-2025)
8-6-3: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS:
No building, structure or premises shall be used and no building or structure
shall be hereafter erected or altered within any AG district, unless otherwise
provided for in this title, except in conformity with the regulations
established and set forth in this article. (Ord. 2025-O-01, 1-22-2025)
8-6-4: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses.
Agriculture, only the following uses are permitted under the term
"Agriculture":
   A.   Apiary;
   B.   Cultivation of field and garden crops
   C.   Flower farm
   D.   Livestock raising on a minimum ten (10) contiguous, vacant acres
subject to the following:
TABLE 8-6-4-1D
Livestock Raising Requirements
        Minimum Exclusive    Minimum Fenced Enclosure Minimum Fenced Enclosure
Animal1 Fenced Land Area Per Height3                  Perimeter Property Line
        Animal2                                       Setback4
                     Minimum Exclusive                      Minimum Fenced
Animal1              Fenced Land Area Per Minimum Fenced    Enclosure Perimeter
                     Animal2              Enclosure Height3 Property Line
                                                            Setback4
                     1/6 acre per animal,
Alpaca/Llama         not to exceed 25     5 feet            10 feet
                     total animals
                     1 acre per animal,
American Bison/Cow   not to exceed 25     5 feet            10 feet
                     total animals
Camel/Donkey/Horse / 1 acre per animal,
Mule                 not to exceed 25     5 feet            10 feet
                     total animals
                     1/2 acre per animal,
Elk                  not to exceed 25     6.5 feet          10 feet
                     total animals
                     1/8 acre per animal,
Goat/Sheep           not to exceed 25     5 feet            10 feet
                     total animals
                     1/8 acre per animal,
Pig                  not to exceed 25     3 feet            200 feet
                     total animals
                     20 square feet per   4 feet for non-
Poultry5             animal, not to       flying species; 6 50 feet
                     exceed 150 total     feet for flying
                     animals              species
                     30 square feet per
Rabbit               animal, not to       3 feet            50 feet
                     exceed 25 total
                     animals
NOTES:
1.   Animals shall be kept in a safe and hygienic manner and not present
nuisances for smells, noises, over accumulation of manure, or similarly
potential adverse aspects associated with livestock raising.
2.   Each lot shall provide this minimum exclusive amount of vacant, unimproved
land area per animal completely enclosed by a fence; no land area may be
counted more than once for any one animal. Fractional number of animals shall
be rounded down to the closest whole integer number.
3.   Fences shall be permitted on lots qualifying for livestock raising. A
fenced enclosure shall be designed to restrict the animals from freely leaving
the enclosed area. Any roofed enclosure shall be treated as an accessory
building.
4.   The perimeter property line shall be the outer most property line of all
land under common ownership of the livestock raising use. No fence shall exceed
7 feet in height nor have an opacity of greater than 50% within any required
yard.
5.   Roosters are not permitted.
 
   E.   Nursery, tree and shrub
   F.   Orchard
   G.   Cemetery.
   H.   Private stable, accessory to residence.
   I.   Single-family dwellings, one per lot.
   J.   Temporary buildings solely for construction purposes for a period not
to exceed such construction. (Ord. 2025-O-01, 1-22-2025)
8-6-5: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   The following uses are permitted if and only if a permit is issued
pursuant to chapter 10 of this title:
   B.   Churches.
   C.   Electric substations where required for local area services.
   D.   Sanitary sewerage pumping facilities where required for local area
services.
   E.   Schools.
   F.   Water pump stations and reservoirs where required for local area
services. (Ord. 2025-O-01, 1-22-2025)
8-6-6: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area, Frontage, Depth: Every lot, farm or other parcel of land
shall have a minimum area of 200,000 square feet (nominal 5 acres minimum), a
minimum lot frontage of three hundred feet (300') and a minimum lot depth of
three hundred fifty feet (350') for all permitted uses; except that, the
minimum lot frontage on a cul-de-sac shall be sixty five feet (65') and on a
curvilinear street, shall be one hundred feet (100') at the front lot line.
   B.   Building Coverage And Impervious Surface Coverage: Maximum building
coverage shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the lot area and maximum
impervious surface coverage shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the lot
area.
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than seventy-
five feet (75') in depth; except that, in a cul-de-sac or on a curvilinear
street the lot width of the building line shall be three hundred feet (300')
measured on an arc line from the center of the cul-de-sac or the center of the
curvilinear street to the building line.
      2.   Side Yard: There shall be minimum of two (2) side yards, each of
which shall be not less than 100 feet wide.
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than 100 feet in
depth.
   D.   Building Height: Principal building heights shall not exceed two and
one-half (21/2) stories above a basement story or thirty-five feet (35'),
whichever is lower. Maximum accessory building heights shall be as stated in
subsection
8-5-6B of CHAPTER 5: RESIDENCES DISTRICTS.
   E.   Ground Floor Area: One-story dwellings shall have a total habitable
ground floor area of not less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square
feet. Dwellings having more than one story shall have not less than one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of ground floor area.
   F.   Accessory Buildings: A single-family dwelling shall be deemed the
principal building on a lot regardless of its size compared to any agriculture
use accessory buildings. All accessory buildings shall have the same front
yard, side yard, and rear yard requirements as are required for the principal
building. Any detached non-residence building 1,000 square feet or greater
shall require an additional two (2) feet of setback for every 100 square feet
over 1,000 square feet from any side yard or rear yard up to maximum of a 100-
foot minimum total setback requirement. Garages shall have the same side, rear
and front yard requirements as the principal building. No attached garage shall
exceed forty-five percent (45%) of the square footage of the first floor of the
principal residence. Except on lots 10 acres or greater, no detached accessory
building shall exceed 2,500 square feet. Refer to section
8-5-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING AND IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE for additional
provisions on total lot coverage area limits. (Ord. 2025-O-01, 1-22-2025)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICE, BUSINESS, INDUSTRIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Building On A Lot
8-7-2: Application On Other Than A Single Lot
8-7-3: Application For Multiple Buildings On A Lot
8-7-4: Permitted Uses (Rep. by Ord. 95-06, 2-22-1994)
8-7-5: Office District
8-7-5-1: Purpose
8-7-5-2: Classification Criteria
8-7-5-3: Design Criteria
8-7-5-4: Permitted Principal Uses
8-7-5-5: Permitted Accessory Uses Within An Office Building
8-7-5-6: Permitted Freestanding Or Attached Accessory Structures
8-7-5-7: Permitted Nonstructural Accessory Uses
8-7-5-8: Special Uses
8-7-5-9: Lot And Bulk Standards
8-7-5-10: Temporary Signs
8-7-5-11: Permanent Signs
8-7-5-12: Traffic Directional Signs
8-7-5-13: Exterior Lighting
8-7-5-14: Off Street Parking
8-7-5-15: Off Street Loading
8-7-5-16: Landscaping; Tree Survey And Preservation
8-7-5-17: Landscape Development Plan
8-7-5-18: Design Review
8-7-5-19: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
8-7-1: BUILDING ON A LOT:
In nonresidential districts, every principal building hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be located, entirely on a single lot or parcel of
record (including its required yard areas, parking facilities, easements and
other required spaces), and there shall not be more than one principal building
on a lot or parcel unless authorized as a special use under the provisions of
chapter 10 of this title upon finding that multiple principal buildings on a
single lot conform to the following conditions:
   A.   Multiple buildings shall only be permitted if they are owned and
occupied by a single entity in the operation of a single, unified business
enterprise or activity.
   B.   The use of multiple buildings rather than a single larger building
shall be found to be necessary for safety or substantially greater efficiency
of the proposed use, as opposed to mere convenience or preference of the owner
or occupant.
   C.   Division of the site of multiple buildings into two (2) or more single
lots shall not be possible or feasible under existing zoning requirements.
   D.   All zoning and building requirements, other than the multiplicity of
principal buildings, shall be met.
   E.   The special use shall not be substantially contrary to the general
purposes of the zoning ordinances nor incompatible with the existing uses and
developments in the neighborhood. (Ord. 95-07, 2-22-1995)
8-7-2: APPLICATION ON OTHER THAN A SINGLE LOT:
In the event that application is made for a permit to build a principal
building on only part of a single lot or parcel of record, or on parts or all
of more than one single lot or parcel, before the application is accepted and
filed, the applicant shall be required to obtain approval from the plan
commission and the village board for a resubdivision creating a single lot of
record to accommodate the proposed building and its required ancillary spaces
as provided in this title. (Ord. 95-07, 2-22-1995)
8-7-3: APPLICATION FOR MULTIPLE BUILDINGS ON A LOT:
In the event application is made for a permit to build multiple principal
buildings on a lot or parcel, before the application is accepted and filed, the
applicant shall be required to obtain a special use permit for the erection of
the specific multiple principal buildings proposed to be erected on the lot.
(Ord. 95-07, 2-22-1995)
8-7-4: PERMITTED USES:
(Rep. by Ord. 95-06, 2-22-94)
8-7-5: OFFICE DISTRICT:
8-7-5-1: PURPOSE:
The Office District is created for the following objectives and purposes:
   A.   Use: The purpose of the O Office District is to govern the planning,
location and development of certain properties within the zoning jurisdiction
of the Village for low intensity office and related service industry
nonresidential uses. Such uses shall be in harmony with the character of the
Village.
   B.   Buffer: The Office District is intended to provide a transitional
buffer between the Illinois Toll Road and existing residentially zoned
properties, especially in the vicinity of interchanges with the Toll Road.
   C.   Tax Base and Employment Opportunities: The Office District is provided
to enhance the property tax base of local taxing jurisdictions, and to provide
employment opportunities for the residents of the community. (Ord. 85-12, 12-
18-85)
8-7-5-2: CLASSIFICATION CRITERIA:
For a parcel of land to qualify for consideration for classification as an
Office District, it must meet the following planning criteria:
   A.   Area: Any area which is zoned Office District should not be less than
twenty (20) acres, excluding adjoining street rights of way. Such sites may be
subdivided in accord with the provisions of the subdivision regulations of the
Village 1 . Whenever petition is made to rezone an area to Office District, or
to add an area to an Office District, the owners thereof shall also petition
for the resubdivision of any parcels of land therein into the minimum areas and
frontages hereinafter required for a building site in the Office District, to
be entitled to have such rezoning petition considered.
   B.   Street Access: Office Districts should have direct access to Federal,
State or County arterial highways and access to the parcel via Village streets
which principally serve residential areas should be avoided.
   C.   Rail Access: Office District should have direct pedestrian access to
the fixed rail network in the Village in anticipation of future possible
commuter rail service.
   D.   Adjoining Uses: Office Districts should not be located in predominantly
residential areas of the Village, but rather in transitional areas where one or
more boundaries of the District are adjoining to industrial or commercial zoned
areas established by zoning in the Village or in its Comprehensive Plan.
   E.   Utilities: All uses established in the Office District must be served
by sanitary sewer facilities. Individual private wells are not permitted.
Potable water shall be provided by a community water system.
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
8-7-5-3: DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Site Development and Building Character: Site planning and development
in an Office District and buildings constructed in it shall be compatible with
the low density of use and improvement set forth herein, and in the residential
districts which are adjacent or nearby the District. All construction and
building plans shall be submitted for review and approval by the Village, as
hereinafter provided in Section
8-7-5-18, to assure such compatibility. Notwithstanding that a development or
building proposal may appear to meet the specific improvement or use criteria
set forth in this Section, the approval provided for in Section
8-7-5-18 shall also require that the proposal preserve the aesthetic values of
the District and the area surrounding it, conform to the character of the
District and those surrounding it, and not be incompatible with the prevailing
residential character of the Village.
   B.   Landscaping: In addition to meeting the foregoing general criteria for
approval of improvements, landscaping shall be required which conforms to those
criteria and which enhances the topographical and natural features of the site
such as water features, unique natural areas, wooded areas, tree masses, views
and vistas.
   C.   Signage: Signs, street graphics and related identity symbols shall
harmonize with the overall character of the parcel's development and shall
clearly be incidental to the total visual impact of the development.
8-7-5-4: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
No merchandise shall be handled for sale or merchandise services rendered on
the premises except such as are incidental or accessory to the principal
permissible use of the premises. No portion of any lot shall be used for open
or unenclosed storage. Permitted principal uses shall only be the following:
   A.   Offices, business, professional and institutional tenants.
   B.   Offices, governmental.
   C.   Medical offices and laboratories.
   D.   Real estate offices.
   E.   Financial institution, bank or savings and loan, including drive-up
tellers.
   F.   Business or professional schools.
   G.   Conference centers.
   H.   Research laboratories. The operation and activities of such uses shall
be conducted wholly inside a building and no use shall emit odors, gas, dust,
smoke, lighting, radioactivity, electromagnetic radiation, nuclear radiation or
any other effect to an extent offensive, objectionable or dangerous to any
surrounding or nearby properties.
8-7-5-5: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES WITHIN AN OFFICE BUILDING:
The cumulative total floor area of all accessory uses within an office building
shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total floor area of the building.
Permitted accessory uses within an office building shall only be the following:
   A.   Office supply store.
   B.   Travel agent.
   C.   Printing shop.
   D.   Blueprinting and drafting supply store.
   E.   Barber shop.
   F.   Beauty shop.
   G.   Computer software and hardware sales and repair service.
   H.   Health club or fitness center.
   I.   Restaurant or cafeteria.
   J.   Tobacco shop.
   K.   Newspaper stand.
   L.   Pharmacy.
   M.   Florist.
   N.   Book store.
   O.   Greeting card and gift shop.
   P.   Child care facility.
      1.   Application for permission to construct or operate a child care
facility shall be accompanied by copies of all valid permits issued and
required by the State Department of Child and Family Services, and any other
applicable County, State or Federal agency. If such permits cannot be obtained
prior to the time of application, the application shall be accompanied by a
report from the appropriate licensing agency, if any, stating the licensing
requirements and a statement as to how the applicant intends to meet these
requirements.
      2.   Applications for permission to construct or operate a child care
facility shall be accompanied by a report and recommendation from the Lake
County Health Department.
      3.   There shall be a minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of safe
outdoor play area for every child for which the facility is licensed to
accommodate.
      4.   There shall be a minimum of thirty five (35) square feet of usable
indoor floor area for every child for which the facility is licensed to
accommodate. Usable floor area does not include administrative space, storage
areas, bathrooms, hallways, kitchen or other areas that are not used for direct
activities with children.
      5.   All outdoor play areas shall be fenced.
      6.   No outdoor play apparatus or play field shall be located in any
required buffer yard or next to a pond, railroad track, street or other hazard.
      7.   Nothing contained within this Section shall prohibit the
establishment or operation of a noncommercial child day care facility which has
been licensed by the State and is accessory and incidental to a principal use.
As a noncommercial accessory use, the day care facility shall accommodate only
the children of persons employed on the premises or shall accommodate children
only on an irregular basis solely for the convenience of the patrons of the
principal use.
8-7-5-6: PERMITTED FREE STANDING OR ATTACHED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
The cumulative total floor area of all freestanding or attached accessory
structures shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the area of the principal
building for parking structures, and ten percent (10%) thereof for other
accessory structures. No such freestanding or attached accessory use shall be
established prior to the principal use. Permitted freestanding or attached
accessory structures shall only be the following:
   A.   Automobile parking structure.
   B.   Shelter for commuter rail passengers.
   C.   Security gatehouse.
   D.   Covered automobile entrance drop-off area.
   E.   Cover over financial office drive-up teller station(s).
   F.   Utility and communications equipment enclosing structure(s).
8-7-5-7: PERMITTED NONSTRUCTURAL ACCESSORY USES:
No such nonstructural accessory use shall be established prior to the principal
use and shall only be the following:
   A.   Surface parking and loading areas for vehicles.
   B.   Open swimming pool.
   C.   Open tennis court.
   D.   Sidewalks, plazas, playground and similar pedestrian areas for either
passive or active recreation.
   E.   Ponds, storm water detention basins, fountains or other water features.
   F.   Landscaping.
   G.   Freestanding signs, street graphics or identity symbols.
   H.   Outdoor lighting fixtures.
   I.   Fences.
   J.   Driveways and internal vehicular circulation.
8-7-5-8: SPECIAL USES:
In order to accomplish the general purpose of this Section, certain unusual
uses need special consideration. They require special regulations to achieve
compatibility with existing development and zoning. Often the effects of these
uses on the surrounding environment cannot be foreseen until a specific site
has been proposed. They must be given special consideration and located
relative to the existing development pattern. They are not permitted
automatically but are subject to the issuance of a special use permit as
provided in Section
8-10-1 of this Title and subject to the standards set forth herein and such
additional standards or conditions as may be established by the Village at the
time of approval of a special use permit.
Such special uses fall into two (2) categories: (Ord. 85-12, 12-18-85)
   A.   Public Special Uses: The following public uses are permitted if and
only if a permit is issued pursuant to Chapter 10 of this Title:
      1.   Sanitary sewerage pumping facilities.
      2.   Water filtration plants, pump stations and reservoirs.
      3.   Electric substations.
      4.   Libraries and museums.
      5.   Fire and police stations.
      6.   Post offices and Municipal buildings.
      7.   Municipal, Township, County or State publics works and road
departments' service yard or station. (Ord. 91-04, 6-26-91)
   B.   Private Special Uses: Uses entirely private in character but of such a
nature that the operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to
their impact upon neighboring property or public facilities, and including the
following:
      1.   Cocktail lounge or bar; provided, that it shall be permitted only as
a part of a full-service restaurant, with space not exceeding thirty five
percent (35%) of the entire public area of the restaurant, shall not be
freestanding, must be indoor and must have adequate parking.
      2.   Commuter rail station; provided, that adequate infrastructure is
provided or is existing.
      3.   Dormitory facilities for conference center personnel; provided, that
they shall be on the same premises as the conference center and shall be used
only by conferees and employees.
      4.   Freestanding health club or fitness center; provided, it shall not
be an accessory use, is for members only, and no dormitory facilities are
permitted.
      5.   Artist studio; provided, that there is adequate on-site parking;
interior use only. Space must be designed for proper height and light. (Ord.
85-12, 12-18-85)
      6.   Health/Medical Uses and Facilities: Uses and facilities owned and
operated by not-for-profit corporations and organizations designed to provide
vocational, residential and social support to mentally retarded or
developmentally disabled individuals. The following uses, facilities, buildings
and structures shall be permitted within a health/medical use and facility:
         a.   Residential: Uses, facilities, buildings and structures designed
for dwelling purposes, including group homes; supported living arrangements;
intermediate care facilities; residential units or structures; and similar or
compatible uses.
         b.   Recreational: Uses, facilities, buildings and structures designed
for use by residents, visitors, guests and patrons, including swimming pools,
ponds or lakes; gymnasiums; miniature golf courses; boat docks or piers; open
air athletic fields, stadiums or exhibition areas; picnic fields and pavilions;
and similar or compatible uses.
         c.   Amusements or Attractions: Uses, facilities, buildings and
structures designed for use by residents, guests, visitors and patrons for
amusements or entertainment purposes including bandstands; stables, riding
rings or corrals; petting zoos or farmyards (including barns and outbuildings
housing domesticated animals and livestock and equipment appertaining thereto);
auto shows and rallys; theatres; rides; music and dance halls; antique shows;
music festivals; miniature trains, tramways or other mass conveyances designed
to provide rides or tours; and similar or compatible uses.
         d.   Food Service: Uses, facilities, buildings and structures designed
to sell and dispense food and beverages, including full service restaurants
(including service of alcoholic beverages as approved by the Village Board);
snack shops (freestanding, permanent structures or mobile vehicles), ice cream
parlors; pastry or bakery shops; coffee houses; cafeterias; or lunchrooms;
temporary alcoholic beverage service (as may be approved by the Village Board);
and similar or compatible uses.
         e.   Retail: Uses, facilities, buildings and structures designed to
provide vocational training or employment for residents or to raise funds for
the not-for-profit corporations and organizations, including pet shops;
restaurants; thrift or resale shops; gift or book shops; antiques or
collectibles shops; shops dealing in foodstuffs produced on the premises or
brought onto the premises for resale; and similar and compatible uses.
         f.   Wholesale Sales and Light Manufacturing: Uses, facilities,
buildings and structures designed to provide vocational training and employment
for residents or to raise funds for the not-for-profit corporations or
organizations, including wholesale uses; food processing; silk screening or
creative production; assembly and collation; light manufacturing; and similar
or compatible uses.
         g.   Accessory Uses: Uses, facilities, buildings and structures
accessory to the above-described uses, including off-street parking structures
and equipment; administrative offices; vehicle and equipment maintenance
facilities, buildings, and structures; public restroom facilities; satellite
receiving dishes or "earth stations"; underground fuel tank storage tanks; and
similar or compatible uses. (Ord. 89-14, 8-10-89)
8-7-5-9: LOT AND BULK STANDARDS:
   A.   Lot Area: Every lot or parcel shall have a minimum area of eighty
thousand (80,000) square feet. Any nonconforming lot or parcel shall not be
entitled to be used as a principal building site, but may be used in
conjunction with an adjacent conforming lot or parcel for accessory uses.
   B.   Lot Frontage: Every lot or parcel shall have a minimum street frontage
of two hundred feet (200') measured at the front building setback line. Any
nonconforming lot or parcel shall not be entitled to be used as a principal
building site, but may be used in conjunction with an adjacent conforming lot
or parcel for accessory uses.
   C.   Building Coverage: Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the area
of a lot may be covered by all buildings and structures.
   D.   Floor Area: The total floor area of all buildings and structures on a
lot shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the area of the lot.
   E.   Building Setbacks: The required minimum setbacks from the property line
of a lot are set forth below, but in no case shall such setbacks be less than
the height of the building:
      1.   Front yard, 50 feet.
      2.   Side yard, 30 feet.
      3.   Side yard adjoining a street, 50 feet.
      4.   Side yard adjoining a residential zone, 50 feet.
      5.   Rear yard, 30 feet.
      6.   Rear yard adjoining a residential zone, 50 feet.
   F.   Building Height: No principal building or structure shall exceed forty
five feet (45') or three (3) stories in height excluding fully enclosed roof
top mechanical equipment penthouses.
   G.   Accessory Buildings or Structures: Accessory buildings or structures
shall not exceed thirty feet (30') or one story in height, and must meet the
same setback requirements as those established for a principal building or
structure, except that parking structures may have two (2) levels, including
roof top, of parking above grade.
   H.   Landscaped Buffer Yards: At the lot line, every lot shall have a
minimum of a fifty foot (50') front landscaped buffer yard and a minimum of a
twenty foot (20') rear landscaped buffer yard and a minimum of twelve foot
(12') side landscaped buffer yard. There shall be no parking or drives
permitted in the buffer yards. Access roads may cross the buffer yard where
required for access, but shall be oriented to minimize the area consumed.
   I.   Landscaped Foundation Yards: Immediately adjoining and surrounding the
foundation of every building there shall be a minimum landscaped foundation
yard of twelve feet (12') measured perpendicular to the building.
   J.   Storage of Garbage and Trash: All garbage cans, trash containers and
other storage devices situated on any lot shall be concealed or suitably
screened from public view. All garbage cans, trash containers and other garbage
storage devices shall be rodent proof and shall be emptied and the contents
thereof properly disposed of not less than once every seven (7) days.
8-7-5-10: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
Temporary signs shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in height. Temporary signs
shall be limited to the following:
   A.   Realtor Signs: During the course of construction, temporary real estate
and realtor signs may be erected which advertise the sale, rental or lease of
the premises upon which signs are located; provided, however, that no more than
one double-faced unilluminated sign shall be permitted on any lot or parcel.
Such signs shall be removed within thirty (30) days after such sale or lease of
the premises or within thirty (30) days of reaching ninety five percent (95%)
initial occupancy. No such sign shall exceed thirty two (32) square feet per
face.
   B.   Construction Signs: Unilluminated construction signs denoting the
architect, engineer, contractor and related consultants may be erected during
construction.
There shall be only one such sign per building, and it shall not exceed sixteen
(16) square feet in area. The sign shall be on or within twenty feet (20') of
the building. Such signs shall be removed upon completion of the building.
8-7-5-11: PERMANENT SIGNS:
Permanent signs shall be "on premises only" subject to the types and controls
listed as follows:
   A.   Wall Signs: The size of wall signs shall not exceed five percent (5%)
of the area of the front wall of a building, and the front wall shall be the
wall with the largest face. No permanent wall sign shall exceed one hundred
(100) square feet in area and there shall be no more than one sign per
building.
   B.   Address Sign: Each building shall have a sign containing its address
and shall not exceed six (6) square feet in area.
   C.   Free Standing Signs: In addition to the wall sign, there may be no more
than one free standing multi-faced sign per building. No free standing sign
face shall exceed thirty (30) square feet in area, and the height shall not
exceed six feet (6') above the grade of the nearest adjoining street or
driveway.
   D.   Identity Symbols: Each Office District subdivision or development may
have a single identity symbol, architectural feature, or entrance feature. Such
symbols or features shall not have a total surface area in excess of two
hundred eighty four feet (284') or a height greater than eighteen feet (18').
   E.   Illumination: All permanent signs may be back lighted, illuminated by
spotlights shielded to eliminate glare on adjoining roads or property, or have
letters, but not backgrounds, that are lighted by internal sources. No flashing
or blinking signs are permitted.
8-7-5-12: TRAFFIC DIRECTIONAL SIGNS:
Traffic directional signs shall be required to indicate and control the flow of
traffic and ingress and egress routes on each lot or parcel. All such signs
shall be of a size and type and otherwise meet all the uniform standards for
traffic- control signs of the Illinois Department of Transportation.
8-7-5-13: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
All parking lots, internal driveways, and walkways shall be illuminated in
accord with the following standards:
   A.   Luminaries: All exterior lighting luminaries shall be baffled or cut-
off type fixtures so that glare is minimized. All luminaries shall be designed
so that the cut-off line of light is at least ten feet (10') within the
property line. The maximum height of luminaries shall be thirty feet (30').
   B.   Illumination: The maximum permitted level of illumination is three
(3.0) foot-candles. Illumination shall be measured in foot-candles at six
inches (6") above ground level in a horizontal position at the point ten feet
(10') inside the property line. A direct reading portable light meter with
color and cosine corrected sensor with multiple scales shall be used. The meter
shall have been tested and calibrated to an accuracy of plus or minus five
percent (±5%) within one year of its use. Measurements shall be made after
dark. The difference between lights on measurements and lights off measurements
shall be used to determine the illumination level and to eliminate the effects
of ambient light.
8-7-5-14: OFF-STREET PARKING:
All uses in the Office District shall be provided with off- street parking
designed to provide for one hundred percent (100%) of the required parking for
the proposed use at peak occupancy.
   A.   Calculation of Number of Spaces: In determining the total parking
required, any fraction shall be counted as one parking space.
   B.   Size: Each parking space shall be at least nine feet by eighteen feet
(9' x 18') in size and shall be a definitely designated stall adequate for one
motor vehicle. Two percent (2%) of all required parking spaces shall be
designated for handicapped parking and shall be twelve feet by eighteen feet
(12' x 18') in size and located as close as possible to the entrance(s) of the
building or use for which the parking is intended. Adequate access aisles to
each stall and to the street shall be provided.
   C.   Multiple Uses: If multiple uses on a lot vary in their parking
requirements, the number of parking spaces shall be the sum of the individual
requirements for each use. However, where peak parking requirements occur at
distinctly different times of the day or week, the total number of spaces may
be reduced. In no case shall the total number of spaces be less than the hourly
peak concentration of the combined uses on the site.
   D.   Surface: All parking facilities, access driveways and aisles, and other
internal vehicular circulation shall be paved.
   E.   Number of Spaces: The following are the minimum of off- street parking
spaces required to be built or reserved for each use within the Office
District:
All retail or service shops or stores 1 space per 300 square feet
Artist studio                         1 space per 250 square feet
                                      1 space per 1,000 square feet plus 1
Business or professional school       space per 2 students based on design
                                      capacity
Child care facility                   1 space per 500 square feet
Cocktail lounge or bar                1 space per 50 square feet
Commuter rail station                 1 space per employee plus commuter
                                      parking per traffic engineer's report
                                      1 space per 1,000 square feet plus 1
Conference center                     space per 2 patrons based on design
                                      capacity
Dormitory facilities                  1 space per suite
Financial institution                 1 space per 250 square feet and 6
                                      stacking spaces per drive-up teller
Free standing health club             1 space per 250 square feet
Health club or fitness center         1 space per 250 square feet
Medical offices and laboratories      1 space per 200 square feet
Office, business, professional and    1 space per 250 square feet
institutional tenants
Office, governmental                  1 space per 250 square feet
Real estate office                    1 space per 250 square feet
Research laboratories                 1 space per 300 square feet
Restaurant or cafeteria               1 space per 100 square feet
 
(Ord. 85-12, 12-18-85)
   F.   Future Parking Reserve: At the option of the builder of any building
and subject to the approval of the Plan Commission during the design review
process, a maximum of twenty five percent (25%) of the total required parking
spaces may be designated as a future parking reserve subject to the following
standards:
      1.   The designated spaces shall be those located the farthest away from
the building.
      2.   The designated spaces shall be landscaped in a manner compatible
with the balance of the landscaping on the site.
      3.   The designated spaces shall not be a part of nor encroach upon any
otherwise required buffer yard or foundation yard or parking lot landscape
area.
      4.   In the sole discretion of the Village, if at any time there appears
to be a parking deficiency, no further occupancy permits shall be issued until
such time that the future parking spaces held in reserve are improved to
correct the deficiency.
      5.   Until such time as the building is ninety five percent (95%)
occupied, the builder shall guarantee that the designated future parking
reserve will be improved if required to meet the parking demand for the
building. Such guarantee shall be in the form of an irrevocable letter of
credit in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost
of constructing the spaces held in reserve, or such other form of guarantee
acceptable and approved by the Village. (Ord. 88-02, 3-16-88)
8-7-5-15: OFF-STREET LOADING:
All uses involving the receipt or distribution of goods by vehicle shall have
space on the premises for pickup, delivery and service vehicles necessary for
normal daily operation. These spaces shall be in addition to the off-street
parking spaces required. Off-street loading facilities shall be provided in
accord with the following standards:
   A.   Number of Spaces: One space per building containing five thousand
(5,000) square feet to fifty thousand (50,000) square feet plus one additional
space for each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet or
fraction thereof.
   B.   Size: The minimum size of all required loading spaces shall be twelve
feet wide by forty feet in length (12' x 40') and shall have a vertical
clearance of fifteen feet (15').
   C.   Location: All required loading spaces shall meet the building setback
requirements.
   D.   Screening: All required loading spaces shall be screened from adjoining
properties and the street by building walls, uniformly painted solid fence,
wall, door, or any combination thereof, not less than eight feet (8') high.
   E.   Repair and Service: No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind
shall be permitted in conjunction with any loading facility. (Ord. 85-12, 12-
18-85)
8-7-5-16: LANDSCAPING; TREE SURVEY AND PRESERVATION:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this Section to govern the
removal of trees and other significant vegetation and insure the replacement of
trees in public and private properties within the Village.
   B.   Tree Survey: A tree survey plan indicating the location, size, genus
and specie of all trees within the subject property shall be submitted to the
Village. The plan shall indicate all trees designated for preservation. Site
plan review shall not commence until the tree survey is submitted to the
Village. The tree survey shall include the following:
      1.   Topographic Survey: Existing and proposed contour elevations (1 foot
intervals) to determine long-range adverse effects on plant materials
designated for preservation.
      2.   Implementation Techniques: The method used to insure preservation of
retained vegetation shall be outlined in a written statement indicating care to
be taken during and after construction; including proximity of grading
operations to tree drip lines, installation of protective fencing and storage
of machinery and supplies.
   C.   Tree Removal Permit: All trees designated for removal having a trunk
diameter four inches (4") and greater measured six inches (6") above grade
shall require a tree removal permit. The permit shall be obtained from the
Village prior to final site plan approval. The permit application shall include
a statement giving the reasons for removal. The Village shall approve the
permit application if one or more of the following conditions is present:
      1.   The tree(s) are dead, diseased or in a weakened state.
      2.   The tree(s) pose a safety hazard to existing or proposed buildings,
pedestrians and vehicles.
      3.   The tree(s) do not conform to recognized principles of good
horticultural practice.
      4.   The tree(s) are located in areas designated for a proposed building
(s), circulation or parking activities.
   D.   Trees Designated for Preservation: In the event trees designated for
preservation have been destroyed or removed as the result of construction
damage, negligence or other operations within the first five (5) years
following construction completion, such trees shall be replaced in accordance
with the following schedule:
Diameter of      Number of   Replacement
Existing Tree    Replacement Caliper (6"
(6" Above Grade) Trees       Above Grade)
Diameter of      Number of   Replacement
Existing Tree    Replacement Caliper (6"
(6" Above Grade) Trees       Above Grade)
4" –6"         6           4"
7" –12"        7           4"
13" 18"        8           4"
19" 24"        9           4"
25" 30"        10          4"
31" 36"        11          4"
36" +            12          4"
 
   E.   Species of Trees: Replacement trees shall be limited to the following
species:
Acer      (Maple excluding Silver Maple)
Carya     (Hickory)
Celtis    (Hackberry)
Fraxinus  (Ash)
Ginko     (Ginko)
Gleditsia (Honeylocust)
Ostrya    (Hophornbeam)
Quercus   (Oak)
Tilia     (Linden)
Other species approved by the Village
 
   F.   Amended Landscape Plan: An amended landscape development plan shall be
submitted for approval by the Village. The plan shall indicate the location,
size, genus and specie of all replacement trees.
8-7-5-17: LANDSCAPE DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this Section to govern the
landscape improvement of all proposed development to enhance, protect and
preserve the appearance, character, health, safety and welfare of the Village.
   B.   Plan Requirement: A landscape development plan shall be submitted to
the Village for all improvements requiring site and/or building review. The
plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include the location of all existing and
proposed structures, property lines, signs, walks, drives, loading areas,
dumpsters, lighting, parking areas, fences, walls, elevation changes, bicycle
parking facilities, free standing electrical and mechanical equipment, water
features, landscape irrigation, plant material and other free standing
features.
   C.   Design Criteria/Right of Way: Landscaping shall be provided within the
right of way where a property abuts a dedicated public street as follows:
      1.   Ground Layer: All unpaved areas within public rights of way shall be
graded and sodded.
      2.   Parkway Trees:
         a.   Quantity: Parkway trees shall be planted at a spacing equivalent
to forty feet (40') on center. Clustering or staggering of trees may be
acceptable if approved by the Village.
         b.   Size: Parkway trees shall be planted at a minimum trunk size of
three inches (3") caliper as measured six inches (6") above grade.
         c.   Species: Parkway trees shall be limited to the following species,
unless otherwise approved by the Village:
Acer      (Maple excluding Silver Maple)
Carya     (Hickory)
Celtis    (Hackberry)
Fraxinus  (Ash)
Ginko     (Ginko)
Gleditsia (Honeylocust)
Ostrya    (Hophornbeam)
Quercus   (Oak)
Tilia     (Linden)
Other species approved by the Village
 
   D.   Design Criteria/Parking Lot Interior Landscaping: All parking lots
designed for twenty (20) or more spaces shall contain the following:
      1.   Quantity: Not less than five percent (5%) of the interior of all
parking areas shall be devoted to live landscaping enclosed by approved
curbing.
         a.   The area devoted to landscaping shall be dispersed throughout the
lot.
         b.   One shade tree shall be required for every one hundred fifty
(150) square feet of landscaped area. In the event of a fraction of a tree, if
a fraction is less than one-half (1/2) tree, the lower full number shall be
used. If a fraction is one-half (1/2) tree or greater, the higher number shall
be used.
      2.   Size: Interior landscape areas shall be a minimum of one hundred
sixty (160) square feet. Areas shall have not less than eight feet (8') in
width measured from back-of-curb to back-of-curb.
      3.   Cover: Not less than fifty percent (50%) of all interior planting
areas shall consist of live landscaping.
   E.   Design Criteria/Parking Lot Perimeter Landscaping:
      1.   Front and Corner Yards:
         a.   Properties Abutting Residential Property: All parking lots
located across a dedicated right of way from property zoned for residential use
shall be screened from adjacent properties by a continuous shrub buffer, not
less than three feet (3') in height. Such landscaping shall include earth berms
where feasible, shade, ornamental and evergreen trees.
         b.   Properties Abutting Nonresidential Property: All parking lots
located across a dedicated right of way from properties zoned for
nonresidential use shall be landscaped with a shrub buffer covering not less
than thirty percent (30%) of the street frontage at a height of not less than
three feet (3'). Such landscaping shall include earth berms where feasible,
shade, ornamental and evergreen trees.
         c.   Ground Layer: Except where landscape beds or plant materials are
present, all front and corner yards shall be sodded or seeded.
      2.   Rear and Side Yards:
         a.   Properties Abutting Residential Property: All parking lots
located adjacent to properties zoned for residential use shall be buffered by a
solid screen at a minimum height of six feet (6'). The screen shall consist of
a solid wood fence, evergreen or deciduous shrubs, or a combination as approved
by the Village. Such screen shall include earth berms where feasible,
deciduous, evergreen and ornamental trees. Shade trees shall be planted the
equivalent of fifty feet (50') on center at a caliper of not less than four
inches (4"), measured six inches (6") above grade. Trees may be clustered or
staggered if approved by the Village.
         b.   Properties Abutting Nonresidential Property: All parking lots
abutting properties zoned for nonresidential use shall be screened from
adjacent properties by a landscape buffer covering not less than thirty percent
(30%) of the frontage at a minimum height of three feet (3'). Such screen shall
also include earth berms where feasible, deciduous, evergreen and ornamental
trees. Shade trees shall be planted the equivalent of fifty feet (50') on
center along the buffer, at a caliper of not less than four inches (4"),
measured six inches (6") above grade. Trees may be clustered or staggered if
approved by the Village.
         c.   Ground Layer: Except where landscape beds or plant materials are
present, all side and rear yards shall be sodded or seeded.
   F.   Design Criteria/Building Foundation Planting:
      1.   Size: A minimum setback of twelve feet (12') in width adjacent to
the building shall be devoted to landscaping, except where walks and service
drives are required.
      2.   Materials:
         a.   Foundation planting shall consist of a combination of deciduous,
evergreen and ornamental trees, deciduous and evergreen shrubs. Ground layer,
except where plantings exist, shall consist of sod or ground cover.
         b.   All mechanical and electrical equipment, dumpsters, loading areas
and bicycle racks shall be screened from public view with a solid evergreen
hedge or fence.
   G.   Design Criteria/Site Perimeter Landscaping: All plans submitted for
review shall include perimeter landscaping as follows:
      1.   Properties Abutting Residential Property:
         a.   All properties located adjacent to properties zoned for
residential use shall be screened from view with a continuous solid screen not
less than six feet (6') in height. The screen shall consist of earth berms, a
solid wood fence or other barrier acceptable to the Village.
         b.   Deciduous shade trees shall be planted the equivalent of fifty
feet (50') on center. Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved by the
Village.
         c.   In addition to the barrier and shade trees, the Village may
require additional plant materials including deciduous, evergreen and flowering
trees, ornamental and evergreen shrubs.
         d.   Ground layer material, unless occupied by plant materials, shall
be sodded or seeded.
      2.   Properties Abutting Nonresidential Property:
         a.   All properties abutting property zoned for nonresidential use
shall include the equivalent of one shade tree, seventy feet (70') on center.
Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved by the Village.
         b.   In addition, the Village may require additional landscaping
consisting of earth berms, evergreen, deciduous and ornamental trees, deciduous
and evergreen shrubs.
         c.   All ground layer material, unless occupied by plant material,
shall be sodded or seeded.
   H.   Installation and Maintenance:
      1.   Installation:
         a.   Site preparation work shall not be undertaken until a certificate
of acceptance is issued for the landscape development plan.
         b.   All landscaping shall be installed in conformance with procedures
established by the American Association of Nurserymen.
         c.   Plant material shall be consistent with all requirements set
forth in the "American Standard for Nursery Stock" published by the American
Association of Nurserymen, latest edition.
         d.   Prior to construction, the owner shall submit a performance and
material and labor payment bond in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of
the estimated cost of landscape construction, in a form acceptable to the
Village. The bond shall also insure completion of the work, repair of all
damages caused by the owner; and replacement of all items not in conformance
with the approved landscape development plan.
         e.   Prior to issuance of any occupancy permit, the owner must submit
evidence of substantial completion of the landscape work. In the event of
delays caused by environmental conditions, the owner may present a performance
bond in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of
landscaping and irrigation, or a letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
Village for receipt of a temporary occupancy permit. The temporary permit will
be valid for a period of one hundred fifty (150) days.
      2.   Maintenance: The owner shall submit detailed plan of maintenance
procedures to be used to protect and promote the growth of the approved
plantings and landscaping materials for a period of at least two (2) full
growing seasons after completion of all landscaping. The owner shall provide a
bond or letter of credit in a sum equal to ten percent (10%) of the estimated
cost of the landscape construction and plantings to guarantee that the plan of
maintenance is followed and that the plantings are alive and growing at the end
of the second growing season. The bond or letter of credit shall be in the same
form as is provided for the maintenance of accepted subdivision improvements
under the Subdivision Ordinance of the Village 1 . The bond or letter of credit
shall be submitted and approved before the Village issues an occupancy permit
for the building upon the premises being landscaped.
      3.   Replacement: The owner shall replace all dead material within the
next growing season.
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
8-7-5-18: DESIGN REVIEW:
No building, improvement or structure shall be erected in the Office District
that is not in compliance with design criteria set forth in Section
8-7-5-3 hereof. No permit shall be issued for any building, improvement or
structure unless it has first been approved as complying with said design
criteria by the Plan Commission of the Village as herein provided. In the event
that the Plan Commission rejects or fails to approve any plans submitted for
design review within forty five (45) days after submission, the person
submitting such plans may appeal from said rejection or failure to approve in
the same manner as herein provided for appeals from the decisions of officers
of the Village to the Board of Appeals of the Village, as provided in Section
8-11-5 of this Title. If the Plan Commission rejects any plan, it shall state
the reason for rejection in writing.
   A.   Procedure: Prior to obtaining a building permit for any new
construction in the Office District, three (3) sets of preliminary design plans
shall be submitted to the Building Department along with the preliminary plan
review fee. As otherwise required, building permits for all interior
modifications or interior tenant improvements and occupancy permits for all
changes in tenancy shall not be subject to the design review by the Plan
Commission unless either of these changes increases the number of parking
spaces required under this Section.
   B.   Building Department Review: The Building Commissioner shall review the
submitted preliminary design plans to determine if they are complete and meet
the basic zoning, building and site development standards of the Village.
   C.   Plan Commission Review: Thereafter, the plans shall be submitted to the
Village Plan Commission for design review and comment. The Plan Commission
shall determine if the proposed site development, landscaping, building design
and signs satisfy the design criteria standards of this Section. Upon approval
of the preliminary design plans, one set of approved plans shall be returned to
the applicant, one set shall be placed on file with the Building Department,
and one set shall be placed on file with the Plan Commission.
   D.   Building Permits: No building permit shall be issued for any new
construction or site development or sign that is not in compliance with the
approved preliminary design plans.
   E.   Required Preliminary Design Plan Documents:
      1.   Location Map: A dimensioned location map at a scale of one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger showing the relationship of the
subject site to adjoining properties, land uses, structures, streets and
natural features within one thousand feet (1,000') of the subject site. A
current plan view aerial photograph may be substituted in lieu of a map
drawing.
      2.   Site Plan: A dimensioned site plan shall be prepared at a scale of
one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20') or larger, showing the following:
         a.   Surveyed property lines and easements.
         b.   Building setback lines and buffer yard lines.
         c.   All proposed buildings and structures.
         d.   All proposed nonstructural accessory uses.
         e.   Existing topography and proposed topography at one foot (1')
intervals at U.S.G.S. datum.
         f.   Proposed finish floor and roof elevations at U.S.G.S. datum.
         g.   Proposed landscaping plan showing the size, location and name of
all trees and woody plants and planting of all earth areas. All existing trees
six inches (6") in diameter or greater as measured four feet (4') above grade
shall be located and noted as either to be preserved or removed.
         h.   Proposed garbage and trash storage facilities.
         i.   Proposed exterior lighting type and location of luminaries and
illumination level contours at one foot-candle intervals.
         j.   At the applicant's option, any other site plan design information
which the applicant feels may explain the site design concept.
      3.   Building Plans: Dimensioned preliminary building plans for all
buildings and structures shown on the site plan at a scale of one inch equals
eight feet (1" = 8') or larger showing the following:
         a.   Floor, penthouse and roof plans.
         b.   Elevations indicating materials, colors and textures.
         c.   Cross sections.
         d.   Proposed garbage and trash storage facilities.
         e.   At the applicant's option, any other drawings, material samples,
or other information which the applicant feels may explain the building design
concept.
      4.   Sign Plans: A dimensioned drawing of all proposed temporary and
permanent signs at a scale of one inch equals one foot (1" = 1') or larger
indicating the following:
         a.   Sign materials, construction and supporting structure. Structural
calculations shall also be required for all free standing signs of one hundred
(100) square feet or larger surface area.
         b.   Lettering and graphic information contents.
         c.   Colors and textures.
         d.   Method of illumination.
         e.   At the applicant's option, any other information, material
samples or drawings which the applicant feels may explain the sign design
concept.
8-7-5-19: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
Before any building or other structure, or part thereof, shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, moved or structurally altered, and before
the use of any building, structure or land is changed, including any change in
tenancy, a building permit and occupancy permit shall be obtained. Any use or
occupancy, which was not discontinued during any alteration work, shall be
discontinued within thirty (30) days after the completion of the alteration if
a new occupancy permit is not issued. (Ord. 88-02, 3-16-88)
ARTICLE A. LI LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-7A-1: Purpose
8-7A-2: Classification Criteria
8-7A-3: Design Criteria
8-7A-4: Permitted Principal Uses
8-7A-5: Permitted Accessory Uses
8-7A-5-1: Permitted Accessory Uses Within An Office Building
8-7A-5-2: Permitted Accessory Uses Within An Industrial Building
8-7A-6: Permitted Freestanding Or Attached Accessory Structures
8-7A-7: Permitted Nonstructural Accessory Uses
8-7A-8: Special Uses
8-7A-9: Lot And Bulk Standards
8-7A-10: Temporary Signs
8-7A-11: Permanent Signs
8-7A-12: Traffic Directional Signs
8-7A-13: Exterior Lighting
8-7A-14: Off Street Parking
8-7A-15: Off Street Loading
8-7A-16: Design Review
8-7A-17: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
8-7A-18: Industrial Performance Standards
8-7A-18-1: Permit Procedure
8-7A-18-2: Performance Standards
8-7A-18-3: Enforcement
8-7A-19: Tree Survey And Preservation
8-7A-20: Landscape Development Plan
8-7A-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Use: The purpose of the LI limited industrial district is to govern the
planning, location and development of certain properties within the zoning
jurisdiction of the village for office, research, light industrial,
administrative and related service industry nonresidential uses. Such uses
shall be in harmony with the character of the village.
   B.   Tax Base And Employment Opportunities: The limited industrial district
is provided to enhance the property tax base of local taxing jurisdictions, and
to provide employment opportunities for the residents of the community. (Ord.
88-03, 3-23-1988)
8-7A-2: CLASSIFICATION CRITERIA:
For a parcel of land to qualify for consideration for classification as a
limited industrial district, it must meet the following planning criteria:
   A.   Area: Any area which is zoned limited industrial district should not be
less than twenty (20) acres, excluding adjoining street rights of way. Such
sites may be subdivided in accord with the provisions of the subdivision
regulations of the village 1 . Whenever petition is made to rezone an area to
limited industrial district, or to add an area to a limited industrial
district, the owners thereof shall also petition for the resubdivision of any
parcels of land therein into the minimum areas and frontages hereinafter
required for a building site in the limited industrial district, to be entitled
to have such rezoning petition considered.
   B.   Adjoining Uses: Limited industrial districts shall not be located in
predominantly residential areas of the village, but rather in transitional
areas where one or more boundaries of the district are adjoining to industrial
or commercial zoned areas established by zoning in the village or in its
comprehensive plan.
   C.   Utilities: All uses established in the limited industrial district must
be served by sanitary sewer facilities. Individual private wells are not
permitted. Potable water shall be provided by a community water system. All
utilities shall be installed underground and shall provide for appropriate
safety measures or other controls, whether of a temporary or permanent nature,
as set forth by village, county, state or federal government agencies. Any
connection of underground utilities involving crossing a street shall be
accomplished only by augering and casing the carrier pipe. (Ord. 88-03, 3-23-
1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
8-7A-3: DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Site Development And Building Character: Site planning and development
in a Limited Industrial District and buildings constructed in it shall be
compatible with the Residential Districts which are adjacent or nearby the
district. All construction and building plans shall be submitted for review and
approval by the Village, as provided in section
8-7A-16 of this article, to assure such compatibility. Notwithstanding that a
development or building proposal may appear to meet the specific improvement or
use criteria set forth in this article, the approval provided for in section
8-7A-16 of this article shall also require that the proposal preserve the
aesthetic values of the district and the area surrounding it, and not be
incompatible with the prevailing residential character of the Village. Common
brick, concrete block, split face block, corrugated metal or preengineered
metals installed with exposed fasteners are prohibited on any building exterior
wall.
   B.   Landscaping: In addition to meeting the foregoing criteria for approval
of improvements, landscaping shall be required which conforms to those criteria
and which enhances the topographical and natural features of the site such as
water features, unique natural areas, wooded areas, tree masses, views and
vistas.
   C.   Signage: Signs, street graphics and related identity symbols shall
harmonize with the overall character of the parcel's development and shall
clearly be incidental to the total visual impact of the development.
   D.   Outside Storage: Any articles, goods or materials to be stored other
than in a building shall be properly screened from streets and adjacent lots by
landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or screening that is
compatible with building architecture.
   E.   Screening Of Equipment And Utilities: All equipment relating to the use
or operation of a building, whether adjacent to the building, attached to a
building wall or roof mounted, including electrical equipment or transformers,
heating, air conditioning or ventilating equipment, telephone or communications
equipment, or storage tanks, shall be properly screened from streets and
adjacent lots by landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or
screening that is compatible with building architecture.
   F.   Multiple Buildings Or Structures: When multiple buildings or structures
are planned as part of a single ownership project, all buildings or structures
shall be of similar, compatible design and materials. (Ord. 88-03, 3-23-1988)
8-7A-4: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
   A.   Permitted principal uses upon any property in the Limited Industrial
(LI) Zoning District within the Village shall only be the following:
Advertising display construction (a manufacturing facility).
Agricultural implement sales, service, indoor..
Bakeries, wholesale.
Blueprinting or photostat shop.
Bottling companies.
Catering service.
Civic buildings.
Contractor's equipment storage, indoor.
Exterminating shop.
Food locker.
Food processing and packing.
Furniture repair or refinishing shop, sales.
Greenhouse, nonretail.
Health club or fitness center.
Industrial use, including, but not limited to: assembly, cleaning, compounding,
fabrication, manufacture, mixing, packaging, processing, production, repair,
servicing, storage and testing which can meet the industrial performance
standards (section
8-7A-18-2 of this article).
Landscape contractor's storage yard or plant, indoor.
Landscaping materials and supplies, sales.
Laundry.
Machine shop.
Medical laboratory.
Mirror supply, refinishing.
Office district uses:
Business or professional school.
Conference center.
Financial institution.
Medical office.
Off site temporary construction signs, subject to the provisions of the Village
sign regulations.
Office, business, professional, institutional.
Office, governmental.
Real estate office.
Research laboratories.
Ornamental iron work shop.
Park, public.
Printing and photocopying service.
Sign shop.
Telephone exchange.
Upholstery shop.
Warehouse (excluding self-storage or miniwarehouse).
Welding shop.
Well drilling service. (Ord. 2011-O-04, 6-22-2011; amd. Ord. 2018-O-03, 6-27-
2018)
   B.   Permitted principal uses upon any property in the Limited Industrial
(LI) Zoning District that is located, in whole or in part, within one thousand
feet (1,000') north of the centerline of Illinois Route 176 in the Village,
where no outdoor storage of any goods or items, or outdoor activity takes
place, shall only be the following:
Appliance, sales, repair or service.
Automobile sales, supplies and service.
Bicycle sales or repair.
Boat sales, supplies and service (including, potentially, lower intensity uses,
such as the sales and service of kayaks, canoes, rowboats, or other
nonmotorized watercraft, and their accessories or equipment).
Business machine sales and repair.
Catalog sales or mail order store.
Catering service.
Furnace, water heater sales and service.
Furniture sales, repair, and refinishing.
Hardware store, retail.
Hobby shop.
Jewelry store.
Motorcycle sales and service.
Office equipment sales and service.
Paint and wallpaper sales.
Picture frame sales and service.
Plumbing supplies and fixture sales, retail.
Rental of equipment with indoor storage.
Sporting goods store.
Water softening equipment sales and service. (Ord. 2011-O-04, 6-22-2011; amd.
Ord. 2025-O-04, 2-26-2025)
8-7A-5: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
8-7A-5-1: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES WITHIN AN OFFICE BUILDING:
The cumulative total floor area of all accessory uses within an office building
shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total floor area of the building.
Permitted accessory uses within an office building shall only be the following:
Barbershop.
Beauty shop.
Blueprinting and drafting supply store.
Bookstore.
Childcare facility:
   A.   Application for permission to construct or operate a childcare facility
shall be accompanied by copies of all valid permits issued and required by the
State Department of Child and Family Services, and any other applicable County,
State or Federal agency. If such permits cannot be obtained prior to the time
of application, the application shall be accompanied by a report from the
appropriate licensing agency, if any, stating the licensing requirements and a
statement as to how the applicant intends to meet these requirements.
   B.   Applications for permission to construct or operate a childcare
facility shall be accompanied by a report and recommendation from the Lake
County Health Department.
   C.   There shall be a minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of safe
outdoor play area for every child for which the facility is licensed to
accommodate.
   D.   There shall be a minimum of thirty five (35) square feet of usable
indoor floor area for every child for which the facility is licensed to
accommodate. Usable floor area does not include administrative space, storage
areas, bathrooms, hallways, kitchen or other areas that are not used for direct
activities with children.
   E.   All outdoor play areas shall be fenced.
   F.   No outdoor play apparatus or play field shall be located in any
required buffer yard or next to a pond, railroad track, street or other hazard.
   G.   Nothing contained within this article shall prohibit the establishment
or operation of a noncommercial child daycare facility which has been licensed
by the State and is accessory and incidental to a principal use. As a
noncommercial accessory use, the daycare facility shall accommodate only the
children of persons employed on the premises or shall accommodate children only
on an irregular basis solely for the convenience of the patrons of the
principal use.
Computer software and hardware sales and repair service.
Florist.
Greeting card and gift shop.
Health club or fitness center.
Newspaper stand.
Office supply store.
Pharmacy.
Printing shop.
Restaurant or cafeteria.
Tobacco shop.
Travel agent. (Ord. 88-03, 3-23-1988; amd. Ord. 2013-O-11, 8-28-2013)
8-7A-5-2: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES WITHIN AN INDUSTRIAL BUILDING:
   A.   For an industrial building that is occupied by one principal use within
the LI District, the cumulative total floor area of all accessory uses within
that building shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total floor area of the
building.
   B.   For an industrial building that is occupied by more than one principal
use within the LI District, the total floor area for any accessory use shall
not exceed ten percent (10%) of the floor area of the principal use.
   C.   In addition to the parking requirements of section
8-7A-14, "Off Street Parking", of this article all accessory retail uses shall
provide a minimum of one off street parking space for each three hundred (300)
square feet of floor area occupied by the accessory retail use.
   D.   Permitted accessory uses within an industrial building shall be limited
to the retail sale of products manufactured, distributed, produced, or
assembled as part of the principal use occurring within the same industrial
building, or of goods that are accessory or directly related to the above
products. (Ord. 2013-O-11, 8-28-2013)
8-7A-6: PERMITTED FREESTANDING OR ATTACHED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
The cumulative total floor area of all freestanding or attached accessory
structures shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the area of the principal
building for parking structures, and ten percent (10%) thereof for other
accessory structures. No such freestanding or attached accessory use shall be
established prior to the principal use. Permitted freestanding or attached
accessory structures shall only be the following:
   A.   Automobile parking structure.
   B.   Shelter for commuter rail passengers.
   C.   Security gatehouse.
   D.   Covered automobile entrance drop off area.
   E.   Cover over financial office drive-up teller station(s).
   F.   Utility and communications equipment enclosing structure(s).
   G.   Fully enclosed shed not to exceed 225 square feet of floor area, 15
feet in height, and one per lot. (Ord. 88-03, 3-23-1988; amd. Ord. 2025-O-04,
2-26-2025)
8-7A-7: PERMITTED NONSTRUCTURAL ACCESSORY USES:
No such nonstructural accessory use shall be established prior to the principal
use and shall only be the following:
Driveways and internal vehicular circulation.
Fences.
Freestanding signs, street graphics or identity symbols.
Landscaping.
Open swimming pool.
Open tennis court.
Outdoor lighting fixtures.
Ponds, stormwater detention basins, fountains or other water features.
Sidewalks, plazas, playground and similar pedestrian areas for either passive
or active recreation.
Surface parking and loading areas for vehicles. (Ord. 88-03, 3-23-1988)
8-7A-8: SPECIAL USES:
In order to accomplish the general purpose of this article, certain unusual
uses need special consideration. They require special regulations to achieve
compatibility with existing development and zoning. Often the effects of these
uses on the surrounding environment cannot be foreseen until a specific site
has been proposed. They must be given special consideration and located
relative to the existing development pattern. They are not permitted
automatically but are subject to the issuance of a special use permit as
provided in section
8-10-1 of this title and subject to the standards set forth herein and such
additional standards or conditions as may be established by the Village at the
time of approval of a special use permit.
   A.   Such special uses fall into the following categories:
      1.   Public Special Uses: The public uses set forth in section
8-7-5-8 of this chapter are permitted in this district if and only if permit is
issued pursuant to chapter 10 of this title.
      2.   Private Special Uses: Uses entirely private in character but of such
a nature that the operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to
their impact upon neighboring property or public facilities, and including the
following:
         a.   Private special uses upon any property in the Limited Industrial
(LI) Zoning District within the Village shall only be the following:
Agricultural implement sales, service, outdoor.
Automobile body shop.
Automobile sales, limited to any property in the Limited Industrial (LI) Zoning
District that is located, in whole or in part, within one thousand feet
(1,000') north of the centerline of Illinois Route 176 in the Village, where
outdoor storage of goods or items, or outdoor activity takes place, as provided
in subsection B of this section.
Boatworks, custom building and repair only.
Building material sales yard.
Bulk material storage.
Contractor's equipment storage yard.
Employee food service facility.
Hotel or motel.
Kennel or dog daycare facility.
Lumber, retail sales.
Machinery storage yard.
Medical cannabis cultivation center and medical cannabis dispensary.
Mobile home sales, service.
Monument works.
Off site temporary parking facilities that are within five hundred feet (500')
of the property line where the principal use is located.
Padel ball club, indoor only.
Padel ball club, outdoor courts.
Radio and television station and studio.
Recreational vehicle sales and service.
Truck sales, repair.
Truck, trailer rental.
Warehouse, self-storage or miniwarehouse.
         b.   Private special uses upon any property in the Limited Industrial
(LI) Zoning District that is located, in whole or in part, within one thousand
feet (1,000') north of the centerline of Illinois Route 176 or that directly
abuts Bradley Road in the Village, where no outdoor storage of any goods or
items, or outdoor activity takes place, shall only be the following:
Restaurants, with or without drive-up service windows, where the restaurant use
is part of a mixed use development that is approved as part of a special use
that includes a list of allowed restaurant uses as part of the approved special
use consistent with this section within this Limited Industrial (LI) District.
Retail uses where the retail use is part of a mixed use development that is
approved as part of a special use that includes a list of allowed retail uses
as part of the approved special use consistent with this section within this
Limited Industrial (LI) District.
Unified mixed use developments that include a mix of industrial, office,
service, restaurant or retail uses as unified principal uses on property under
unified ownership or control that may include shared parking, loading,
circulation areas, access improvements, stormwater detention facilities, or
similar shared facilities or improvements.
         c.   Private special uses upon any property in the Limited Industrial
(LI) Zoning District which is located, in whole or in part, east of the Tri-
State Tollway and south of Illinois Route 176:
Open Air Roof Top Uses with Special Amenities.
   B.   In addition to the general provisions for special uses as set forth in
this section and all other applicable standards of this article, the following
special standards shall be met for the special uses listed below:
      1.   Agricultural implement sales, service, outdoor:
         a.   All work or service on agricultural implements shall be conducted
indoors.
         b.   All agricultural implements shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7A-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Agricultural implements stored outdoors shall
only be located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any
otherwise required parking area.
      2.   Automobile body shop:
         a.   Parking for vehicles in service shall be screened at a minimum
from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high
minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum. ,or combination thereof per a Section
8-7A-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed parking area. Vehicles stored or parked for service outdoors
shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any
otherwise required parking area.
         b.   All service on vehicles shall be conducted indoors.
         c.   No vehicles shall be used for storage except for the time in
which they are being loaded and unloaded for transportation of goods onto or
off the site, which shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
         d.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any vehicle
shall be allowed in the LI District.
      3.   Automobile sales:
         a.   Automobile sales are only allowed as a special use upon those
properties located in the Limited Industrial (LI) Zoning District that:
            (1)   Are located, in whole or in part, within one thousand feet
(1,000') north of the centerline of Illinois Route 176, in the Village of Green
Oaks;
            (2)   Have a minimum frontage on any street of two hundred feet
(200'); and
            (3)   Have a minimum lot area of two (2) acres.
         b.   All work or service on automobiles shall be conducted indoors.
         c.   All outdoor storage of automobiles shall be screened at a minimum
from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high
minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum. , or combination thereof per a Section
8-7A-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed parking area. Vehicles stored or parked for service outdoors
shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any
otherwise required parking area. The only locations of vehicles on display for
sale shall be as approved in the Special Use Permit plans.
         d.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any vehicle
shall be allowed in the LI District.
      4.   Boatworks, custom building and repair only:
         a.   All work or service on boats shall be conducted indoors.
         b.   All outdoor storage of boats shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7A-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Boats stored outdoors shall only be located in
this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise required parking
area.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any boat shall
be allowed in the LI District.
      5.   Building material sales yard:
         a.   All materials stored outdoors shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7A-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Materials stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   In no case shall the height of materials stored outdoors exceed
the height of the screening.
         c.   Building materials stored outdoors shall not include any salvage
materials, scrap metal, rags, paper, vehicle parts, or any type of refuse.
         d.   Building materials shall not be stored in any parked vehicle or
trailer except for the time in which they are being loaded and unloaded, which
shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
      6.   Bulk material storage:
         a.   All bulk materials stored outdoors shall be screened at a minimum
from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high
minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7A-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Materials stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   Bulk materials stored outdoors shall not include any salvage
materials, scrap metal, rags, paper, vehicle parts, or any type of refuse.
         c.   Bulk materials shall not be stored in any parked vehicle or
trailer except for the time in which they are being loaded and unloaded, which
shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
      7.   Contractor's equipment storage yard:
         a.   All contractor's equipment stored outdoors shall be screened at a
minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8')
high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7A-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Equipment stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   In no case shall the height of the contractor's equipment stored
outdoors exceed the height of the screening.
         c.   All repair or servicing of any equipment shall be conducted
indoors.
      8.   Employee food service facility:
         a.   All such facilities shall be considered an accessory use to any
otherwise permitted use.
         b.   Such facilities shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the floor
area of the principal use.
         c.   Such facilities shall be for the exclusive use of the owners,
employees, tenants or guests of the principal use.
         d.   No sign visible to the general public shall indicate the
existence of the employee food service facility nor shall its existence be
advertised to the general public.
         e.   In no case shall the use of the employee food service facility
predate the substantial installation and operation of the principal use. The
use of the employee food service facility shall cease immediately upon
termination of the principal use.
         f.   No service of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted.
      9.   Hotel or motel:
         a.   The minimum lot area for any hotel or motel is two (2) acres.
         b.   Ingress and egress to and from all rooms shall be through an
inside lobby supervised at all times through a common entrance.
         c.   Accessory uses to any hotel or motel shall be limited to those
uses customarily and historically associated with them for the accommodation of
the guests, including meeting rooms, restaurant and outdoor recreation
facilities.
         d.   All outdoor recreation facilities shall be securely fenced and
for the exclusive use of the guests.
      10.   Kennel or dog daycare:
         a.   Any property used for kennel or dog daycare purposes must at all
times and in all circumstances, be in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws, ordinances, and regulations, especially all department
of agriculture regulations pertaining to kennels.
         b.   Solid dog waste must be picked up on a daily basis from the
premises and placed in a sealed container. No solid dog waste may remain
outside for more than a twenty four (24) hour period.
         c.   Dog time outside may not exceed twenty (20) minutes per
occurrence.
         d.   All parking lots, internal driveways, and walkways shall be
illuminated in accord with the following standards:
            (1)   Luminaries: All exterior lighting luminaries shall be baffled
so that glare is minimized. All luminaries shall be designed so that the cutoff
line of light is at least ten feet (10') within the property line. The maximum
permitted height of luminaries shall be thirty feet (30').
            (2)   Illumination: The maximum permitted level of illumination is
three (3.0) foot-candles. Illumination shall be measured in foot-candles at six
inches (6") above ground level in a horizontal position at the point ten feet
(10') inside the property line. A direct reading portable light meter with
color and cosine corrected sensor with multiple scales shall be used. The meter
shall have been tested and calibrated to an accuracy of plus or minus five
percent (±5%) within one year of its use. Measurements shall be made after
dark. The difference between lights on measurements and lights off measurements
shall be used to determine the illumination level and to eliminate the effects
of ambient light.
         e.   Notwithstanding any other regulation, parking for the facility
must be provided in the amount of one parking place for four hundred (400)
square feet if dog training is provided on site.
         f.   Any kennel or dog daycare facility may not contain more than one
dog for every one hundred fifty (150) square feet of interior space.
         g.   For any dog potty area on a kennel or dog daycare site, a privacy
fence must be installed, and the dog potty area must be lit during all periods
of use during darkness. Any such potty area must have a solid surface that is
capable of sanitization on a regular basis, or have an adequate land area and
appropriate drainage such that no odors, flies, disease, or other nuisance is
created by the use of such potty area on the kennel or dog daycare facility
property, or on neighboring property.
      11.   Lumber, retail sales:
         a.   All lumber, wood products and related building materials and
supplies offered for sale shall be stored indoors and no outdoor storage of any
type shall be permitted.
         b.   All buildings and structures shall be fully enclosed.
      12.   Machinery storage yard:
         a.   All machinery stored outdoors shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7A-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Machinery stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   In no case shall the height of the machinery stored outdoors
exceed the height of the screening.
         c.   All repair or servicing of any machinery shall be done indoors.
      13.   Medical cannabis cultivation center and medical cannabis dispensary
organizations:
         a.   Medical Cannabis Facility Locations: Medical cannabis facilities
may only be allowed as special uses in the LI limited industrial district when
located north of state of Illinois Route 176 (Rockland Road) and subject to the
setback standards and other provisions of this subsection B12.
         b.   Compliance With State Regulations And Rules: All facilities shall
comply with the compassionate use of medical cannabis pilot program act (public
act 098-0122), as amended from time to time, and all rules and regulations
adopted in accordance therewith as amended from time to time.
         c.   Submittal Requirements: After a preapplication meeting with the
building commissioner, an applicant for a special use shall be required to
submit plans and documents as deemed necessary, including, but not limited to,
a plat of survey, a site plan, engineering plan, architectural plans and
elevations, building material samples, lighting plan, signage plan, business
and operational plan, security plan, traffic impact statement, community
deleterious prevention plan, and any document required for a state license
submittal application.
         d.   Minimum Setbacks From Incompatible Land Uses:
            (1)   As measured from a medical cannabis facility's property
lines, the following minimum setbacks from incompatible uses shall apply:
               (A)   A dispensary may not be located within one thousand feet
(1,000') of the property line of a public or private preschool or elementary or
secondary school or daycare center, daycare home, group daycare home, or part
day childcare facility, place of religious worship, cemetery, public or private
park, forest preserve, substance abuse treatment clinic or center or group home
facility.
               (B)   A dispensary may not be located within five hundred feet
(500') of a property line of any property in an AG, SR-2, SR-1, SR-1A, SR-1.5
or any property zoned primarily for residential use.
               (C)   A cultivation center may not be located within two
thousand five hundred feet (2,500') of the property line of a public or private
preschool or elementary or secondary school or daycare center, daycare home,
group daycare home, or part day childcare facility, place of religious worship,
cemetery, public or private park, forest preserve, substance abuse treatment
clinic or center, any property in an AG, SR-2, SR-1, SR-1A, SR-1.5, or any
property zoned primarily for residential use.
               (D)   A medical cannabis facility may not be located within two
thousand five hundred feet (2,500') of the property line of any other medical
cannabis facility.
         e.   Parking And Loading:
            (1)   Medical cannabis dispensary:
               (A)   A minimum of one hundred (100) parking spaces or as many
spaces as determined by the village board to meet the parking demand of the
facility.
               (B)   A minimum of one fully enclosed delivery bay capable of
accommodating delivery vehicles to drive completely into the facility.
            (2)   Medical cannabis cultivation center:
               (A)   One space per employee plus as many additional spaces as
determined by the village board to meet the parking demand of the facility.
               (B)   A minimum of one fully enclosed delivery bay capable of
accommodating delivery vehicles to drive completely into the facility.
            (3)   Parking areas shall be located in an area which is visible
from a public road or a private road that is accessible to the public.
            (4)   Parking areas shall be well lit and monitored by video
surveillance equipment whose live images can be viewed by cultivation or
dispensary staff and continually recorded in a tamperproof format.
         f.   Traffic Impact: A traffic impact statement shall be provided with
any application submittal that analyzes items such as, but not limited to, peak
traffic trip generation, access arrangements, existing and proposed area
roadway condition, automobile queuing and stacking, and parking. The traffic
impact statement will provide estimates of costs to improve roadway
infrastructure to accommodate any increase in demand on the area roadway
network.
         g.   Building Requirements:
            (1)   A medical cannabis facility shall be the sole use of a single
lot, parcel, and/or property and located in a detached, single-tenant building.
            (2)   The exterior of any medical cannabis facility building shall
be of brick, stone, or similar masonry product construction and adequately
reinforced to prevent forced entry.
         h.    Landscaping:
            (1)   Minimum landscape yards are as follows:
               (A)   Along any property line abutting a roadway or a railroad
right of way line a minimum twenty five foot (25') deep landscape yard with
plantings is required.
               (B)   Along any property line abutting an adjacent property line
a minimum fifteen foot (15') deep landscape yard with plantings is required.
               (C)   Planting material shall be provided at a rate of two (2)
shade trees, two (2) ornamental trees, and ten (10) shrubs (or their
equivalent) per each one hundred (100) linear feet.
            (2)   Minimum interior site landscape areas as follows:
               (A)   One planting island of at least one hundred (100) square
feet in area for each ten (10) parking spaces provided.
               (B)   Planting material shall be provided at a rate of one shade
tree per each one hundred (100) square feet of planting area.
         i.   Exterior Display: No medical cannabis facility shall be
maintained or operated in a manner that causes, creates or allows the public
viewing of medical cannabis, medical cannabis infused products or cannabis
paraphernalia or similar products from any sidewalk, public or private right of
way or any property other than the lot on which the dispensary is located. No
portion of the exterior of the dispensary shall utilize or contain any flashing
lights, searchlights or spotlights or any similar lighting system.
         j.   Signage And Advertising:
            (1)   Signage shall comply with the standards of the underlying
zoning district.
            (2)   Electronic message boards and temporary signs are not
permitted.
            (3)   Signage should not contain cannabis imagery such as cannabis
leaves, plants, smoke, paraphernalia, or cartoonish imagery oriented toward
youth, or language referencing marijuana or cannabis other than "marijuana" or
"cannabis".
            (4)   A sign shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near all
dispensary entrances and shall include the following language: "Only
Cardholders, Designated Caregivers, And Staff May Enter These Premises. Persons
Under The Age Of 18 Are Prohibited From Entering." The required text shall be
no larger than one inch (1") in height.
         k.   Age And Access Limitations: It shall be unlawful for any medical
cannabis facility to allow any person who is not at least eighteen (18) years
of age on the premises. Dispensaries shall not employ anyone under the age of
eighteen (18). Access shall be limited exclusively to medical cannabis facility
staff, cardholders, designated caregivers, local and state officials, and those
specifically authorized under the state governing statute.
         l.   Hours Of Operation: A dispensary shall operate only between eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
         m.   Drive-Through Windows: A medical cannabis facility may not have a
drive-through service.
         n.   Security And Video Surveillance:
            (1)   Facilities shall provide to the village a security plan that
at a minimum provides that:
               (A)   The medical cannabis facility shall be an enclosed, locked
facility and shall provide and maintain adequate security on the premises,
including lighting, video surveillance and alarms reasonably designed to ensure
the safety of persons and to protect the premises from theft;
               (B)   The parking area, client entrance, sales area, backroom,
storage areas and delivery bay and entrance shall be monitored by video
surveillance equipment whose live images can be viewed by dispensary staff,
continually recorded in a tamperproof format;
               (C)   A sign shall be posted in a prominent location which
includes the following language:
               This area is under live/recorded video surveillance to aid in
the prosecution of any crimes committed against this facility or its patrons.
               (D)   The local law enforcement officials shall review and
approve prior to the issuance of a special use permit the adequacy of lighting,
security and video surveillance installations;
               (E)   A medical cannabis facility shall report all criminal
activities to local law enforcement officials immediately upon discovery; and
               (F)   Deliveries shall occur during normal business hours within
a secure, enclosed delivery bay, and no delivery shall be visible from the
exterior of the building.
         o.   Conduct On Site:
            (1)   Loitering is prohibited on a medical cannabis facility
property.
            (2)   It shall be prohibited to smoke, inhale or consume cannabis
products in or anywhere on the property occupied by the medical cannabis
facility beyond what is allowed under the state governing statute. A sign, at
least 8.5 by eleven inches (11"), shall be posted inside the medical cannabis
facility building in a conspicuous place and visible to employees and clients
and shall include the following language:
            Smoking, eating, drinking or other forms of consumption of cannabis
products is prohibited on dispensary property.
      14.   Mobile home sales, service:
         a.   Mobile homes in storage or parked for service shall be screened
at a minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet
(8') high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10')
high minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7A-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Mobile homes stored or parked for service
outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and separated
from any otherwise required parking area.
         b.   All service and work on mobile homes shall be conducted indoors.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any mobile home
shall be allowed in the LI District.
      15.   Monument works:
         a.   All outdoor materials storage areas shall be screened at a
minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8')
high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7A-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Materials stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   All manufacturing or other work on monuments shall be done
indoors.
      16.   Off site temporary parking facilities:
         a.   Overnight parking is prohibited in a temporary off-site parking
facility.
         b.   As part of the submissions for a proposed special use for a
temporary off-site parking facility there shall be a plat of survey that
includes information on the area where any gravel, pavement or other material
already exist on the subject property and a separate indication of any
additional area for any proposed gravel, pavement or other material where the
temporary off-site parking is being proposed, with this information to be
reviewed by the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may also require
additional related information to aid the Village Engineer in the review for
the report and recommendations to the Village Board.
         c.   As part of the Village Board's approval of the off site temporary
parking facility, the Village Board may allow temporary departures from the
provisions related to off street parking in the LI Limited Industrial District
and these departures are to be specifically noted in writing in the motion for
approval of the requested off site temporary parking facility.
         d.   As part of a special use approval by the Village Board the
applicant shall deposit funds with the Village in an amount determined by the
Village Engineer in the event that the off site temporary parking facility is
not properly maintained and the subject property needs to have the off site
temporary parking facility removed from the subject property and the
applicant's deposit of funds shall include the cost of any needed grading of
the property and having the property seeded or having sod applied.
         e.   A time period for the off site temporary parking facility shall
be approved by the Village Board and that shall not exceed twelve (12) months,
provided that the Village Board may approve one additional twelve (12) month
time period subject to an inspection of the off site temporary parking facility
by the Village Engineer with the Village Engineer's report to the Village
Board.
      17.   Open Air Roof Top Uses with Special Amenities:
         a.   As part of the submissions for a special use for an open air roof
top use with special amenities there shall be plans that indicate the special
amenities that are being proposed, such as, but not limited to, roof top
landscaping, outdoor seating or temporary work tables with WI-FI access for
employees of the principal use, any food or beverage facilities, any plans for
special events that may be held in the open air roof top special amenities roof
top area, and similar plans and lists for any special amenities as part of the
open air roof top use.
         b.   Guard rails, parapet walls or similar safety barriers are to be
provided at both the exterior edge of the wall of the Open Air Roof Top Uses
with Special Amenity and at a minimum distance of 10 feet back from the
exterior edge of the wall of the Open Air Roof Top Uses with Special Amenity,
and the space between these two safety barriers is not to used by persons on a
regular basis, but may be used for passive amenities such as green roof
features, landscaping or other passive use amenities.
         c.   The Open Air Roof Top Use with Special Amenities may include a
maximum of 25 percent (25%) of the total area of the open air roof top use to
be devoted to enclosed mechanical equipment or enclosed stairways or elevators
for access to the open air roof top use and the total height of the open air
roof top use and the related enclosed areas may be modified from the building
height standards referenced in the LI Limited Industrial zoning district when
approved as a part of an approved Special Use, and the setback standards
related to building height may be modified to increase the setback from
property located in a residential zoning district and to decrease setbacks from
abutting properties that are not located in a residential zoning district when
approved as a part of an approved Special Use.
         d.   Any lights for the open air roof top use must be shown on the
plans submitted for the Special Use and the lighting must be for the open air
roof top use area only and shall not include any lighting to extend beyond the
roof top area and all lighting shall be directed downward toward the open air
roof top area and shall be consistent with "Dark Sky" lighting standards.
         e.   Any speakers or sound system for the open air roof top use must
be shown on the plans submitted for the Special Use and the speakers or sound
system must be for the open air roof top use area only and shall not include
noise levels to extend significantly beyond the exterior edge of the walls of
the Open Air Roof Top Uses with Special Amenity. Live music or electronically
reproduced music or entertainment are prohibited uses upon or within Open Air
Roof Top facility.
         f.   Speakers or sound systems shall not be used to broadcast music or
other forms of entertainment but may be used as an intercom for non-commercial
announcements and alerts.
         g.   Open air rooftop uses shall be limited to uses consistent with
the principal use of the zoning lot. Leasing or licensing of any portion of the
rooftop facility to third parties is prohibited.
         h.   Selling, serving or consuming alcoholic beverages is prohibited
upon Open Air Roof Top facilities.
       18.   Radio and television studio:
         a.   No tower or antenna shall be visible from the nearest Residential
Zoning District.
         b.   The operation of any transmitter, antenna or other equipment
shall not cause interference with any other form of radio or television device
within the Village.
      19.   Padel Ball Club; Indoor Only: As part of the Village Board's
approval of a Padel Ball Club, the Village Board may allow departures from the
provisions related to the Front and Side Yards, in the LI Limited Industrial
District; however, no departure shall be allowed for a rear yard abutting a
residential zoning district and these departures are to be specifically noted
in writing in the ordinance approving the requested Special Use for the Padel
Ball Club. Courts for padel ball shall be indoor only. Outdoor padel ball
courts are prohibited.
      20.   Padel Ball Club, Outdoor Courts:
         a.   Padel Ball Club must have a main indoor club building and
facilities to adequately service the anticipated number of guests,
participants, and employees.
         b.   Courts shall only be used for the sport of Padel ball according
to the International Padel Federation Regulations of the Padel Game; No other
uses of the courts shall be permitted, such as for the playing of pickle ball
or tennis.
         c.   An acoustic study and testimony at the Special Use public hearing
by a certified professional in the field of acoustic/noise studies showing
compliance with any applicable noise and sound requirements is required with a
Special Use application.
         d.   A lighting/photometric plan showing compliance with Zoning
Ordinance Chapter 12: Illumination Systems is required with a Special Use
application and all proposed lighting must be International Dark-Sky
Association approved or meet the same specifications for minimizing glare,
upward light, light pollution and light trespass onto adjacent properties.
Maximum illumination intensity at a property line abutting a residential zoning
district shall not exceed 0.5 foot-candles measured horizontally. Final
applicable lighting levels shall be as approved or provided in the Special Use
permit.
         e.   The view of courts from adjacent properties in a residential
zoning district shall be obscured by the planting of shrubbery, evergreen
trees, or comparable plant materials subject to
8-7A-16: Design Review.
         f.   As part of the Village Board's approval of a Padel Ball Club, the
Village Board may allow departures from the provisions related to the Front and
Side Yards, in the LI Limited Industrial District; however, no departure shall
be allowed for a yard abutting a residential zoning district and these
departures are to be specifically noted in writing in the ordinance approving
the requested Special Use for the Padel Ball Club.
         g.   Additional Special Use conditions may be established in the
permit based on the location of the proposed outdoor courts.
      21.   Recreational vehicle sales and service:
         a.   Recreational vehicles in storage or parked for service shall be
at a minimum screened from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing
eight feet (8') high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten
feet (10') high minimum, or combination thereof per Section
8-7A-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Recreational vehicles stored
or parked for service outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure
area and separated from any otherwise required parking area. The only locations
of recreational vehicles on display for sale shall be as approved in the
Special Use Permit plans.
         b.   All service or work on recreational vehicles shall be done
indoors.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any recreational
vehicle shall be allowed in the LI district.
      22.   Truck sales, repair:
         a.   Trucks and trailers in storage or parked for service shall be
screened at a minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing
eight feet (8') high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten
feet (10') high minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7A-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Trucks and trailers stored or
parked for service outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure
area and separated from any otherwise required parking area. The only locations
of trucks and trailers on display for sale shall be as approved in the Special
Use Permit plans.
         b.   All service or work on trucks and trailers shall be done indoors.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any truck shall
be allowed in the LI District.
      23.   Truck, trailer rental:
         a.   All trucks and trailers offered for rent shall be screened at a
minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8'')
high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10'') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7A-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Trucks and trailers stored or
parked outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and
separated from any otherwise required parking area.
         b.   No servicing or repair of trucks or trailers shall be permitted
on the property.
         c.   No truck or trailer shall be used for storage except for the time
in which they are being loaded and unloaded for transportation of goods onto or
off the site, which shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
         d.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any truck shall
be allowed in the LI District.
      24.   Warehouse, self-storage or miniwarehouse:
         a.   This use shall be defined as a single building or group of
buildings in a controlled access compound that contains varying sizes of
individual compartmentalized stalls or lockers for the dead storage of
customer's goods or wares.
         b.   A site for such a use shall not exceed three (3) acres when the
only use is the self-storage warehouse or miniwarehouse use, with or without
accessory retail use, except that a site for such a use may exceed three (3)
acres when the self-storage warehouse or miniwarehouse use is part of a mixed
use project that includes retail uses, other than accessory retail uses, as
part of the approved special use.
         c.   The building height shall not exceed thirty feet (30') or two (2)
stories, except when the self-storage use is a special use within an existing
industrial building, in which case the building height may exceed thirty feet
(30') or two (2) stories provided the building height is not increased above
the existing building height.
         d.   Vehicular ingress and egress shall be limited to one access point
on the site's principal street frontage, except when, as part of the approved
special use, a specific controlled access plan is approved for secondary or
emergency access purposes.
         e.   There shall be a minimum of thirty five feet (35') between
warehouse buildings for driveways, parking and fire lane purposes where there
is two-way vehicular traffic flow, and the minimum width may be reduced to
twenty five feet (25') where there is one-way traffic flow as part of an
approved site circulation plan as part of the approved special use. Where no
parking is provided within the building separation areas, the building
separation may be twenty five feet (25').
         f.   The facilities shall be used for dead storage only, and no
radioactive, explosive or biohazardous material may be stored on the premises.
         g.   No auctions, commercial sales, garage sales or the like shall be
conducted on the premises, except as may be specifically allowed as temporary
uses as part of the approved special use.
         h.   The servicing or repairing of motor vehicles, boats, trailers,
lawn mowers or other similar equipment shall not be conducted on the premises.
         i.   A resident manager shall be required on the site and shall be
responsible for maintaining the operation in conformance with the requirements
of this article, except an on site resident manager may not be required when
there is an approved security and operations plan with twenty four (24) hour
contact provisions to a specific person or entity as part of the approved
special use. Written copies of such security and operations plan, twenty four
(24) hour contact information, and rules for customers to follow in the
operation of the self-storage use should be submitted with the special use
application. (Ord. 88-03, 3-23-1988; amd. Ord. 2007-O-2, 2-28-2007; Ord. 2011-
O-04, 6-22-2011; Ord. 2013-O-17, 12-18-2013; Ord. 2014-O-36, 11-19-2014; Ord.
2015-O-03, 1-28-2015; Ord. 2016-O-09, 6-22-2016; Ord. 2018-O-03, 6-27-2018;
Ord. 2021-O-09, 6-23-2021; Ord. 2020-O-07, 7-26-2020; Ord. 2022-O-02, 1-26-
2022; Ord. 2025-O-04, 2-26-2025)
8-7A-9: LOT AND BULK STANDARDS:
   A.   Lot Area: Every lot or parcel shall have a minimum area of forty
thousand (40,000) square feet. Any nonconforming lot or parcel shall not be
entitled to be used as a principal building site, but may be used in
conjunction with an adjacent conforming lot or parcel for accessory uses.
   B.   Lot Frontage: Every lot or parcel shall have a minimum street frontage
of one hundred thirty feet (130') measured at the front lot line. Any
nonconforming lot or parcel shall not be entitled to be used as a principal
building site, but may be used in conjunction with an adjacent conforming lot
or parcel for accessory uses.
   C.   Building Coverage: Not more than forty five percent (45%) of the area
of a lot may be covered by all buildings and structures. (Ord. 88-03, 3-23-
1988)
   D.   Floor Area: The total floor area of all buildings and structures on a
lot shall not exceed sixty five percent (65%) of the area of the lot.
   E.   Maximum Impervious Surface Ratio: The maximum impervious surface,
including buildings and paved areas, on a lot shall not exceed seventy five
percent (75%) of the area of the lot. For existing buildings or properties in
the LI District, or for existing buildings or properties that were existing in
another Village of Green Oaks zoning district where the property has been
rezoned into the LI District, that are legal nonconforming due to an existing
impervious surface ratio that exceeds seventy five percent (75%) the existing
buildings or properties can be redeveloped or expanded provided that the
resulting impervious surface ratio is at least ten percent (10%) less than the
existing legal nonconforming impervious surface conditions even if these
conditions exceed seventy five percent (75%).
   F.   Building Setbacks: The required minimum setbacks from the property line
of a lot are set forth below:
      1.   Front yard: Thirty five feet (35').
      2.   Side yard: Twenty feet (20').
      3.   Side yard adjoining a street: Thirty five feet (35').
      4.   Side yard adjoining a Residential Zone: Fifty feet (50').
      5.   Rear yard: Twenty feet (20').
      6.   Rear yard adjoining a Residential Zone: Fifty feet (50').
      7.   There shall be two feet (2') additional setback required for each
one foot (1') of building height over twenty five feet (25').
   G.   Parking Setbacks: The required minimum setback from the property line
of a lot are set forth below:
      1.   Front or street: Ten feet (10').
      2.   Side yard: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear yard: Ten feet (10').
      4.   Outdoor vehicle display: Ten feet (10').
      5.   Side or rear yard abutting a railroad: Ten feet (10').
   H.   Accessory Structure Setbacks: The minimum separation between an
accessory structure and any other structure is four feet (4').
   I.   Building Height: No principal building or structure shall exceed sixty
five feet (65') or five (5) stories in height including fully enclosed rooftop
mechanical equipment penthouses.
   J.   Storage Of Garbage And Trash: All garbage cans, trash containers and
other storage devices situated on any lot shall be properly screened from
streets and adjacent lots by landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping
materials or screening that is compatible with building architecture. All
garbage cans, trash containers and other garbage storage devices shall be
rodentproof and shall be emptied and the contents thereof properly disposed of
not less than once every seven (7) days. There shall be no trash burning or
incineration devices or facilities. (Ord. 2013-O-17, 12-18-2013)
8-7A-10: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
Temporary signs shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in height. Temporary signs
shall be limited to the following:
   A.   Realtor Signs: During the course of construction, temporary real estate
and realtor signs may be erected which advertise the sale, rental or lease of
the premises upon which signs are located; provided, however, that no more than
one double faced unilluminated sign shall be permitted on any lot or parcel.
Such signs shall be removed within thirty (30) days after such sale or lease of
the premises or within thirty (30) days of reaching ninety five percent (95%)
initial occupancy. No such sign shall exceed thirty two (32) square feet per
face.
   B.   Construction Signs: Unilluminated construction signs denoting the
architect, engineer, contractor and related consultants may be erected during
construction. There shall be only one such sign per building, and it shall not
exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area. The sign shall be on or within twenty
feet (20') of the building. Such signs shall be removed upon completion of the
building. (Ord. 88-03, 3-23-1988)
8-7A-11: PERMANENT SIGNS:
Permanent signs shall be "on premises only" subject to the types and controls
listed as follows:
   A.   Wall Signs: Wall signs shall only be permitted on building walls facing
a street, road or highway. There shall be no more than one wall sign per street
frontage. The size of wall signs shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet in
area except for wall signs facing the Tri State Tollway, which shall not exceed
one hundred twenty (120) square feet in area.
   B.   Address Sign: Each building shall have a sign containing its address
and shall not exceed six (6) square feet in area.
   C.   Freestanding Signs: In addition to the wall sign, there may be no more
than one freestanding multifaced sign per building. No freestanding sign face
shall exceed thirty (30) square feet in area, and the height shall not exceed
six feet (6') above the grade of the nearest adjoining street or driveway. No
freestanding sign shall be located closer than fifteen feet (15') from any lot
line.
   D.   Identity Symbols: Each limited industrial district subdivision may have
a single identity symbol, architectural feature, or entrance feature. Such
symbols or features shall not have a total surface area in excess of two
hundred eighty four feet (284') or a height greater than eighteen feet (18')
above average lot grade.
   E.   Illumination: All permanent signs may be backlighted, illuminated by
spotlights shielded to eliminate glare on adjoining roads or property, or have
letters, but not backgrounds, that are lighted by internal sources. No flashing
or blinking signs are permitted. (Ord. 88-03, 3-23-1988)
8-7A-12: TRAFFIC DIRECTIONAL SIGNS:
Traffic directional signs shall be required to indicate and control the flow of
traffic and ingress and egress routes on each lot or parcel. All such signs
shall be of a size and type and otherwise meet all the uniform standards for
traffic control signs of the Illinois department of transportation. (Ord. 88-
03, 3-23-1988)
8-7A-13: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
All parking lots, internal driveways, and walkways shall be illuminated in
accord with the following standards:
   A.   Luminaries: All exterior lighting luminaries shall be baffled so that
glare is minimized. All luminaries shall be designed so that the cutoff line of
light is at least ten feet (10') within the property line. The maximum
permitted height of luminaries shall be thirty feet (30').
   B.   Illumination: The maximum permitted level of illumination is three
(3.0) foot-candles. Illumination shall be measured in foot-candles at six
inches (6") above ground level in a horizontal position at the point ten feet
(10') inside the property line. A direct reading portable light meter with
color and cosine corrected sensor with multiple scales shall be used. The meter
shall have been tested and calibrated to an accuracy of plus or minus five
percent (±5%) within one year of its use. Measurements shall be made after
dark. The difference between lights on measurements and lights off measurements
shall be used to determine the illumination level and to eliminate the effects
of ambient light. (Ord. 88-03, 3-23-1988)
8-7A-14: OFF STREET PARKING:
No on street parking shall be permitted in any limited industrial district. All
uses in the limited industrial district shall be provided with off street
parking designed to provide for one hundred percent (100%) of the required
parking for the proposed use at peak occupancy.
   A.   Calculation Of Number Of Spaces: In determining the total parking
required, any fraction shall be counted as one parking space.
   B.   Size: Each parking space shall be at least nine feet by eighteen feet
(9' x 18') in size and shall be a definitely designated stall adequate for one
motor vehicle. Two percent (2%) of all required parking spaces shall be
designated for handicapped parking and shall be twelve feet by eighteen feet
(12' x 18') in size and located as close as possible to the entrance(s) of the
building or use for which the parking is intended. Adequate access aisles to
each stall and to the street shall be provided.
   C.   Multiple Uses: If multiple uses on a lot vary in their parking
requirements, the number of parking spaces shall be the sum of the individual
requirements for each use. However, where peak parking requirements occur at
distinctly different times of the day or week, the total number of spaces may
be reduced. In no case shall the total number of spaces be less than the hourly
peak concentration of the combined uses on the site.
   D.   Surface: All parking facilities, access driveways and aisles, and other
internal vehicular circulation shall be paved. (Ord. 88-03, 3-23-1988; amd.
Ord. 2007-O-2, 2-28-2007)
   E.   Number Of Spaces: The following are the minimum of off street parking
spaces required to be built or reserved for each use within the limited
industrial district:
All retail stores (unless listed below)  1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Advertising display construction         spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Agricultural implement sales, service    spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 300 square feet in
Automobile body shop                     addition to spaces reserved for cars
                                         in storage for service
                                         1 space per 300 square feet in
Automobile sales                         addition to spaces reserved for cars
                                         displayed for sale
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Automobile supplies and service          spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Bakeries, wholesale                      spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Bicycle repair                           spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Bicycle sales                            1 space per 300 square feet
Blueprinting or photostat shop           1 space per 300 square feet
Boat sales                               1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Boat supplies and service                spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Boatworks, custom building and repair    1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
only                                     spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Bottling companies                       spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Building material sales yard             1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Bulk material storage                    spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Business machine sales and repair        spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Catalog sales or mail order store        spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Catering service                         1 space per 300 square feet
Civic buildings                          1 space per 250 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Contractor's equipment storage, indoor   spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Contractor's equipment storage yard      spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Employee food service facility           spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Exterminating shop                       1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Food locker                              spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Food processing and packing              spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Furnace, water heater sales              1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Furnace, water heater service            spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Furniture sales, repair, and refinishing 1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Greenhouse, nonretail                    spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Hardware store, retail                   1 space per 300 square feet
Health club or fitness center            1 space per 250 square feet
Hobby shop                               1 space per 300 square feet
Hotel or motel                           1 space per suite plus spaces as
                                         otherwise required for accessory uses
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Industrial use                           spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Jewelry store                            1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 600 square feet or 2
Kennel or dog daycare                    spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Landscape contractor's storage yard or   1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
plant                                    spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Landscaping materials and supplies,      1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
sales                                    spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Laundry                                  spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Lumber, retail sales                     1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Machine shop                             spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Machinery storage yard                   spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Medical laboratory                       1 space per 300 square feet
Mirror supply, refinishing               1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Mobile home sales, service               spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Monument works                           spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Motorcycle sales                         1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Motorcycle service                       spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Office district uses:                     
 Business or professional school        1 space per 1,000 square feet plus 1
                                         space per 2 students
 Conference center                      1 space per 1,000 square feet plus 1
                                         space per 2 patrons
 Financial institution                  1 space per 250 square feet, plus 6
                                         stacking spaces per drive-up teller
 Medical office                         1 space per 200 square feet
 Office; business, professional,        1 space per 300 square feet
  institutional
 Office equipment sales                 1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
 Office equipment service               spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
 Office, governmental                   1 space per 250 square feet
 Real estate office                     1 space per 250 square feet
 Research laboratories                  1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Ornamental iron work shop                spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Paint and wallpaper sales                1 space per 300 square feet
Park, public                             1 space per 3 persons based on design
                                         capacity
Picture frame sales and service          1 space per 300 square feet
Plumbing supplies and fixture sales,     1 space per 300 square feet
retail
Printing and photocopying service        1 space per 300 square feet
Radio and television station             1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Recreational vehicle sales and service   spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Rental of equipment with indoor storage  1 space per 300 square feet
Restaurants with less than 3,000 square  1 space per 100 square feet
feet of total floor area
Restaurants with 3,000 square feet or    1 space per 200 square feet
greater total floor area
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Sign shop                                spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Sporting goods store                     1 space per 300 square feet
Telephone exchange                       1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Truck sales, repair                      spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Truck, trailer rental                    spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Upholstery shop                          1 space per 300 square feet
Warehouse (excluding self- storage or    1 space per 2,500 square feet or 2
miniwarehouse)                           spaces per 3 employees, whichever is
                                         greater
                                         For the first 150 storage cubicles, 1
                                         space for each 10 storage cubicles,
                                         equally distributed throughout the
                                         storage area, plus 2 spaces for
                                         manager's quarters, if there is an on
                                         site manager's quarters, plus 1 space
Warehouse, self-storage or miniwarehouse for every 25 storage cubicles to be
                                         located at the project office for the
                                         use of prospective clients
                                          
                                         For cubicles over 150 storage
                                         cubicles, 1 space for each 50 storage
                                         cubicles
Water softening equipment sales          1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Water softening equipment service        spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Welding shop                             1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Well drilling service                    spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
 
(Ord. 2011-O-04, 6-22-2011; amd. Ord. 2013-O-17, 12-18-2013)
   F.   Future Parking Reserve: At the option of the builder of any building
and subject to the approval of the plan commission during the design review
process, a maximum of twenty five percent (25%) of the total required parking
spaces may be designated as a future parking reserve subject to the following
standards:
      1.   The designated spaces shall be those located the farthest away from
the building.
      2.   The designated spaces shall be landscaped in a manner compatible
with the balance of the landscaping on the site.
      3.   The designated spaces shall not be a part of nor encroach upon any
otherwise required buffer yard or foundation yard or parking lot landscape
area.
      4.   In the sole discretion of the village, if at any time there appears
to be a parking deficiency, no further occupancy permits shall be issued until
such time that the future parking spaces held in reserve are improved to
correct the deficiency.
      5.   Until such time as the building is ninety five percent (95%)
occupied, the builder shall guarantee that the designated future parking
reserve will be improved if required to meet the parking demand for the
building. Such guarantee shall be in the form of an irrevocable letter of
credit in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost
of constructing the spaces held in reserve, or such other form of guarantee
acceptable and approved by the village. (Ord. 88-03, 3-23-1988)
8-7A-15: OFF STREET LOADING:
All uses involving the receipt or distribution of goods by vehicle shall have
space on the premises for the pick up, delivery and service vehicles necessary
for normal daily operation. These spaces shall be in addition to the off street
parking spaces required. Off street loading facilities shall be provided in
accord with the following standards:
   A.   Number of Spaces: One space per building containing five thousand
(5,000) square feet to fifty thousand (50,000) square feet plus one additional
space for each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet or
fraction thereof.
   B.   Size: The minimum size of all required loading spaces shall be twelve
feet wide by forty feet in length (12' x 40') and shall have a vertical
clearance of fifteen feet (15').
   C.   Location: All required loading spaces shall meet the building setback
requirements. Loading spaces facing any street shall be interior.
   D.   Screening: All exterior loading spaces on the side or rear of any
building shall be screened from adjoining properties and the street by
landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or screening that is
compatible with building architecture.
8-7A-16: DESIGN REVIEW:
No building, improvement or structure shall be erected in the Limited
Industrial District that is not in compliance with design criteria set forth in
Section
8-7A-3 hereof. No permit shall be issued for any building, improvement or
structure unless it has first been approved as complying with said design
criteria by the Plan Commission of the Village and by the Village Board as
herein provided. In the event that the Plan Commission rejects or fails to
approve any plans submitted for design review within forty five (45) days after
submission, the person submitting such plans may appeal from said rejection or
failure to approve in the same manner as herein provided for appeals from the
decisions of officers of the Village to the Board of Appeals of the Village, as
provided in Section
8-11-5 of this Title. If the Plan Commission rejects any plan, it shall state
the reason for rejection in writing.
   A.   Procedure: Prior to obtaining a building permit for any new
construction in the Limited Industrial District, three (3) sets of preliminary
design plans shall be submitted to the Building Department along with the
preliminary plan review fee. As otherwise required, building permits for all
interior modifications or interior tenant improvements and occupancy permits
for all changes in tenancy shall not be subject to the design review by the
Plan Commission unless either of these changes increases the number of parking
spaces required under this Article.
   B.   Building Department Review: The Building Commissioner shall review the
submitted preliminary design plans to determine if they are complete and meet
the basic zoning, building and site development standards of the Village.
   C.   Plan Commission Review: Thereafter, the plans shall be submitted to the
Village Plan Commission for design review and comment. The Plan Commission
shall determine if the proposed site development, landscaping, building design
and signs satisfy the design criteria standards of this Article. The plan shall
then be submitted to the Village Board at a regular meeting for final approval.
Upon approval of the preliminary design plans, one set of approved plans shall
be returned to the applicant, one set shall be placed on file with the Building
Department, and one set shall be placed on file with the Plan Commission.
   D.   Building Permits: No building permit shall be issued that is not in
compliance with the approved preliminary design plans.
   E.   Required Preliminary Design Plan Documents:
      1.   Location Map: A dimensioned location map at a scale of one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger showing the relationship of the
subject site to adjoining properties, land uses, structures, streets and
natural features within one thousand feet (1,000') of the subject site. A
current plan view aerial photograph to a scale of one inch equals four hundred
feet (1" = 400') may be substituted in lieu of a map drawing.
      2.   Site Plan: A dimensioned site plan shall be prepared at a scale of
one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20') or larger, showing the following:
         a.   Surveyed property lines and easements.
         b.   Building setback lines and buffer yard lines.
         c.   All proposed buildings and structures.
         d.   All proposed nonstructural accessory uses.
         e.   Existing topography and proposed topography at one foot (1')
intervals at U.S.G.S. datum.
         f.   Proposed finish floor and roof elevations at U.S.G.S. datum.
         g.   Proposed landscaping plan in accordance with Sections
8-7-5-16 and
8-7-5-17 of this Title.
         h.   Proposed garbage and trash storage facilities.
         i.   Proposed exterior lighting type and location of luminaries and
illumination level contours at one foot-candle intervals.
         j.   At the applicant's option, any other site plan design information
which the applicant feels may explain the site design concept.
      3.   Building Plans: Dimensioned preliminary building plans for all
buildings and structures shown on the site plan at a scale of one inch equals
eight feet (1" = 8') or larger showing the following:
         a.   Floor, penthouse and roof plans.
         b.   Elevations indicating materials, colors and textures.
         c.   Cross sections.
         d.   Proposed garbage and trash storage facilities.
         e.   At the applicant's option, any other drawings, material samples,
or other information which the applicant feels may explain the building design
concept.
      4.   Sign Plans: A dimensioned drawing of all proposed temporary and
permanent signs at a scale of one inch equals one foot (1" = 1') or larger
indicating the following:
         a.   Sign materials, construction and supporting structure. Structural
calculations shall also be required for all free standing signs of one hundred
(100) square feet or larger surface area.
         b.   Lettering and graphic information contents.
         c.   Colors and textures.
         d.   Method of illumination.
         e.   At the applicant's option, any other information, material
samples or drawings which the applicant feels may explain the sign design
concept.
8-7A-17: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
Before any building or other structure, or part thereof, shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, moved or structurally altered, a building
permit shall be obtained. Before the use of any building, structure or land is
changed, including any change in tenancy, an occupancy permit shall be
obtained. Any use or occupancy, which was not discontinued during any
alteration work, shall be discontinued within thirty (30) days after the
completion of the alteration if a new occupancy permit is not issued.
8-7A-18: INDUSTRIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
It is the purpose of this Section to establish regulations and standards for
the installation and operation of industrial uses, based upon consideration of
the objectionable characteristics of such uses and the zones in which they are
permitted. Further, this Section is intended to prescribe procedures and
methods of measurement of industrial characteristics subject to such standards.
8-7A-18-1: PERMIT PROCEDURE:
Before the Building Commissioner issues a building permit for a use in any
Limited Industrial District, the applicant shall furnish the Building
Commissioner sufficient information to enable the Building Commissioner to
assure himself that all performance standards and site development standards
set forth in this Article can and will be complied with at all times. The
Building Commissioner, in order to determine whether or not the applicant will
meet such standards, may require the applicant to submit the following
information:
   A.   A plot plan showing the location of all present and proposed
structures, drives, parking lots, waste disposal areas, bulk storage areas,
streets, streams, or other significant features on or within two hundred feet
(200') of the proposed site.
   B.   A description of the activity to be conducted regarding waste products,
external effects or other conditions which are regulated herein; provided
however, that the applicant shall not be required to reveal any trade secrets
of sufficient detail with regard to a process which would cause any secret
process or manufacturing procedure for a closely guarded proprietary compound
or product to become public knowledge and be available to competitors.
   C.   The type and location of abatement devices to control, or recording
instruments to measure, conformance with required standards, not including
devices and instruments which are inherent in the manufacturing process.
   D.   Such other data and certification as may reasonably be required by the
Building Commissioner to reach a determination.
All information and evidence submitted in applications to indicate conformity
to performance standards shall constitute a certification and an agreement on
the part of the applicant that the proposed use can and will conform to such
standards at all times.
8-7A-18-2: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
In Limited Industrial Districts, the following regulations shall apply:
   A.   Noise:
      1.   Permitted Noise Levels: At no point on or beyond the boundary of any
lot which abuts a lot in the same zone shall the sound pressure level resulting
from any use or activity, whether open or enclosed, exceed the maximum
permitted decibel levels for the designated octave band as set forth in Table 1
below:
   TABLE 1
   MAXIMUM PERMITTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL IN DECIBELS
Octave Band Frequency
Cycles Per Second Decibels
Cycles Per Second Decibels
0 -     74        67
75 -    149       59
150 -   299       52
300 -   599       46
600 -   1,199     40
1,200 - 2,399     34
2,400 - 4,799     32
4,800 - and over  32
 
      2.   Method of Measurement: Sound levels shall be measured with a sound
level meter and associated octave band filter and impact noise filter
manufactured according to standards prescribed by the American Standards
Association. Measurements shall be made using the flat network and "slow" meter
response of the sound level meter. Impulsive type noises shall be subject to
the performance standards if those noises are capable of being accurately
measured with such equipment. Noises capable of being so measured, for the
purpose of this Section, shall be those noises which cause rapid fluctuations
of the needle of the sound level meter with a variation of no more than plus or
minus two (±2) decibels. Noises incapable of being so measured, but
objectionable because of intermittence, beat, frequency or shrillness, shall be
controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
      3.   Exception: Nothing in this Section shall apply to noises not
directly under the control of the property user; noises resulting from the
construction and maintenance of buildings and facilities including site
preparation, noises of safety signals or warning devices, and noises of
railroad or trucking equipment.
   B.   Vibration: Steady-state vibrations, for the purpose of this Section,
are vibrations which are continuous or vibrations in discrete pulses more
frequent than one hundred (100) per minute. Discrete pulses which do not exceed
one hundred (100) impulses per minute shall not cause displacement in excess of
twice the values established in Table 2 below. Impact vibration shall mean
vibrations occurring in discrete pulses separated by an interval of at least
one minute and number no more than eight (8) per twenty four (24) hour period.
      1.   Permitted Vibration Displacements: At no point on or beyond the
boundary of any lot shall the ground-transmitted steady- state or impact
vibration caused by any use or activity (except those not directly under the
control of the property user) exceed the limits as established in Tables 2 and
3 below.
   TABLE 2
   MAXIMUM PERMITTED STEADY-STATE VIBRATION
   DISPLACEMENT IN INCHES
Frequency Cycles Per Limited Industrial District Adjacent to Any Residential
Second               Inches                      Zone Inches
Frequency Cycles Per Limited Industrial District Adjacent to Any Residential
Second               Inches                      Zone Inches
Less than 10         .0008                       .0004
10 through 19        .0005                       .0002
20 through 29        .0003                       .0001
30 through 39        .0002                       .0001
40 through 49        .0001                       .0001
50 and over          .0001                       .0001
 
   TABLE 3
   MAXIMUM PERMITTED IMPACT VIBRATION
   DISPLACEMENT IN INCHES
Frequency         Limited Industrial District Adjacent to Any
Cycles Per Second Inches                      Residential Zone
                                              Inches
Frequency         Limited Industrial District Adjacent to Any
Cycles Per Second Inches                      Residential Zone
                                              Inches
Less than 10      .0016                       .0006
10 through 19     .0010                       .0003
20 through 29     .0006                       .0002
30 through 39     .0004                       .0001
40 through 49     .0002                       .0001
50 and over       .0002                       .0001
 
      2.   Method of Measurement: For the purpose of measuring vibrations, a
three (3) component measuring system shall be used. A three (3) component
measuring system denotes instrumentation which can measure earthborn vibrations
in three (3) directions, each of which occurs at right angles to the other two
(2).
   C.   Smoke and Particulate Matter: The emission from all sources within any
lot, of particulate matter containing more than five percent (5%) by weight or
particles having a particle diameter larger than forty four (44) microns is
prohibited. Dust and other types of air pollution borne by the wind from such
sources as storage areas, yards and roads within the boundaries of any lot
shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate landscaping, paving, oiling or other
acceptable means. Emission of particulate matter from such sources in excess of
weight limitations specified herein is prohibited. The emission of smoke or
particulate matter of a density equal to, or greater than, No. 2 on the
Ringelmann Chart is prohibited at all times, except as otherwise provided
herein.
      1.   Smoke Emission: In Limited Industrial Districts, the emission of
more than twelve (12) smoke units per stack in any one hour period is
prohibited. However, once during any six (6) hour period each stack shall be
permitted up to twelve (12) additional units in a fifteen (15) minute period
for soot blowing and fire cleaning. Only during such fifteen (15) minute
periods shall smoke of a density equal to, but not exceeding, Ringelmann No. 3
be permitted, and then only for fire cleaning and for not more than four (4)
minutes per period.
      2.   Particulate Matter Emission: The rate of emission of particulate
matter from all sources within the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed the
rate established in Table 4 below:
   TABLE 4
   PERMITTED RATE OF PARTICULATE MATTER EMISSION
   IN POUNDS PER HOUR, PER ACRE
      Height of Emission
Feet Pounds
Feet         Pounds
0 – 49     1.00
50 –99     1.01
100 149    1.06
150 199    1.10
200 299    1.16
300 399    1.30
400 and over 1.50
 
      3.   Methods of Measurement:
         a.   Smoke: For the purpose of grading the density of emission of
smoke, the Ringelmann Chart, published and used by the United States Bureau of
Mines, shall be employed. For the purpose of determining smoke units, the
Ringelmann density reading shall be made at least every minute during the
period of observation. Each reading (Ringelmann number) shall be multiplied by
the time in minutes for which it is observed, and the products added together
to determine the total number of smoke units observed during the total period
of observation.
         b.   Particulate Matter: The total net rate of emission of particulate
matter within the boundaries of any lot shall be determined as follows:
Determine the maximum emission in pounds per hour from each source of emission
and divide this figure by the number of acres of lot areas, thereby obtaining
the hourly rate of emission in pounds per acre. Add together the individual
rates of emission as derived above to obtain the total rate of emission from
all sources of emission within the boundaries of the lot. It is this total that
shall not exceed the rate established in Table 4 above.
   D.   Odors: No continuous, frequent or repetitive emission of odors or odor-
causing substances which would be offensive beyond any property line of any
industrial use will be permitted. An odor emitted no more than fifteen (15)
minutes in any one day shall not be deemed as continuous, frequent or
repetitive within the meaning of these regulations. The existence of an odor
shall be presumed when analysis by a competent technician demonstrates that a
discernible odor is being emitted. Any process which may involve the creation
or emission of any odors shall be provided with a primary and a secondary
safeguard system so that control will be maintained if the primary safeguard
system fails. The rules and regulations of the Illinois Air Pollution Control
Board shall be complied with.
   E.   Radiation Hazards: The handling of radioactive materials, the discharge
of such materials into air and water, and the disposal of radioactive wastes
shall be in conformance with 1) the applicable regulations of the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, and 2) the applicable regulations of any instrumentality
of the State of Illinois.
   F.   Fire and Explosive Hazards:
      1.   The provisions of 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 210/1001 through
210/5014 shall be complied with, and no explosives shall be stored, used or
manufactured without first submitting to the Zoning Officer a certificate of
compliance from the Illinois Department of Mines and Minerals.
      2.   No gasoline or other inflammables or explosives shall be stored
unless the location, plans and construction conform to the laws and regulations
of the State of Illinois and have the approval of the State Division of Fire
Prevention of the Department of Public Safety.
   G.   Glare and Heat: Every use and activity shall be so operated that it
does not emit heat or heated air beyond the boundary of the lot on which it is
located. No direct or sky-reflected glare shall emanate from any use or
activity so as to be visible at any point on or beyond the boundary of the lot
on which such use or activity is located. This restriction shall not apply to
signs otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Article or other applicable
ordinances of the Village, nor to activities of a temporary or of an emergency
nature. Night lighting necessary for safety and the protection of property is
excluded from this provision.
   H.   Electromagnetic Interference: There shall be no electromagnetic
interference that adversely affects the operation of any equipment other than
that belonging to the creator of such interference, or that does not conform to
the regulations of the Federal Communications Commission.
8-7A-18-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The Building Commissioner shall enforce the provisions of this Section. Upon
confirmation of a violation, enforcement and penalty provisions of Chapter 11
of this Title shall prevail. In addition, the Village may require the
installation, maintenance and operation by the offending industry of continuous
measuring or recording instruments to demonstrate the operation and to ensure
continuous compliance with the prescribed standards.
8-7A-19: TREE SURVEY AND PRESERVATION:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this Section to govern the
removal of trees and other significant vegetation and insure the replacement of
trees in public and private properties within the Village.
   B.   Tree Survey: A tree survey plan indicating the location, size, genus
and species of all trees within the subject property shall be submitted to the
Village. The plan shall indicate all trees designated for preservation. Site
plan review shall not commence until the tree survey is submitted to the
Village. The tree survey shall include the following:
      1.   Topographic Survey: Existing and proposed contour elevations (1 foot
intervals) to determine long-range adverse effects on plant materials
designated for preservation.
      2.   Implementation Techniques: The method used to insure preservation of
retained vegetation shall be outlined in a written statement indicating care to
be taken during and after construction; including proximity of grading
operations to tree drip lines, installation of protective fencing and storage
of machinery and supplies.
   C.   Tree Removal Permit: All trees designated for removal having a trunk
diameter four inches (4") and greater measured six inches (6") above grade
shall require a tree removal permit. The permit shall be obtained from the
Village prior to final site plan approval. The permit application shall include
a statement giving the reasons for removal. The Village shall approve the
permit application if one or more of the following conditions is present:
      1.   The tree(s) are dead, diseased or in a weakened state.
      2.   The tree(s) pose a safety hazard to existing or proposed buildings,
pedestrians and vehicles.
      3.   The tree(s) do not conform to recognized principles of good
horticultural practice.
      4.   The tree(s) are located in areas designated for a proposed building
(s), circulation or parking activities.
   D.   Trees Designated for Preservation: In the event trees designated for
preservation have been destroyed or removed as the result of construction
damage, negligence or other operations within the first five (5) years
following construction completion, such trees shall be replaced in accordance
with the following schedule:
Diameter of      Number of   Replacement
Existing Tree    Replacement Caliper (6"
(6" Above Grade) Trees       Above Grade)
Diameter of      Number of   Replacement
Existing Tree    Replacement Caliper (6"
(6" Above Grade) Trees       Above Grade)
4" –6"         6           4"
7" –12"        7           4"
13" 18"        8           4"
19" 24"        9           4"
25" 30"        10          4"
31" 36"        11          4"
36" +            12          4"
 
   E.   Species of Trees: Replacement trees shall be limited to the following
species:
Acer      (Maple excluding Silver Maple)
Carya     (Hickory)
Celtis    (Hackberry)
Fraxinus  (Ash)
Ginko     (Ginko)
Gleditsia (Honeylocust)
Ostrya    (Hophornbeam)
Quercus   (Oak)
Tilia     (Linden)
Other species approved by the Village
 
   F.   Amended Landscape Plan: An amended landscape development plan shall be
submitted for approval by the Village. The plan shall indicate the location,
size, genus and specie of all replacement trees.
8-7A-20: LANDSCAPE DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this Section to govern the
landscape improvement of all proposed development to enhance, protect and
preserve the appearance, character, health, safety and welfare of the Village.
   B.   Plan Requirement: A landscape development plan shall be submitted to
the Village for all improvements requiring site and/or building review. The
plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include the location of all existing and
proposed structures, property lines, signs, walks, drives, loading areas,
dumpsters, lighting, parking areas, fences, walls, elevation changes, bicycle
parking facilities, free standing electrical and mechanical equipment, water
features, landscape irrigation, plant material and other free standing
features.
   C.   Design Criteria/Right of Way: Landscaping shall be provided within the
right of way where a property abuts a dedicated public street as follows:
      1.   Ground Layer: All unpaved areas within public rights of way shall be
graded and sodded.
      2.   Parkway Trees:
         a.   Quantity: Parkway trees shall be planted at a spacing equivalent
to eighty feet (80') on center. Clustering or staggering of trees may be
acceptable if approved by the Village.
         b.   Size: Parkway trees shall be planted at a minimum trunk size of
three inches (3") caliper as measured six inches (6") above grade.
         c.   Species: Parkway trees shall be limited to the following species,
unless otherwise approved by the Village:
Acer      (Maple excluding Silver Maple)
Carya     (Hickory)
Celtis    (Hackberry)
Fraxinus  (Ash)
Ginko     (Ginko)
Gleditsia (Honeylocust)
Ostrya    (Hophornbeam)
Quercus   (Oak)
Tilia     (Linden)
Other species approved by the Village
 
   D.   Design Criteria/Parking Lot Interior Landscaping: All parking lots
designed for twenty (20) or more spaces shall contain the following:
      1.   Quantity: Not less than three percent (3%) of the interior of all
parking areas shall be devoted to live landscaping enclosed by approved
curbing.
         a.   The area devoted to landscaping shall be dispersed throughout the
lot.
         b.   One shade tree shall be required for every one hundred fifty
(150) square feet of landscaped area. In the event of a fraction of a tree, if
a fraction is less than one-half (1/2) tree, the lower full number shall be
used. If a fraction is one-half (1/2) tree or greater, the higher number shall
be used.
      2.   Size: Interior landscape areas shall be a minimum of one hundred
sixty (160) square feet. Areas shall have not less than eight feet (8') in
width measured from back-of-curb to back-of-curb.
      3.   Cover: Not less than fifty percent (50%) of all interior planting
areas shall consist of live landscaping. (Ord. 88-03, 3-23-88)
   E.   Design Criteria/Parking Lot Perimeter Landscaping: The following
minimum standards for landscaping shall apply when a lot or parcel is one
hundred thousand (100,000) square feet in area or less, and when parking is
provided within any required building setback area or yard:
      1.   Front Yards and Side Yards Abutting a Street:
         a.   A twenty foot (20') wide minimum landscaped buffer area on the
lot shall be provided at the property line adjoining any street.
         b.   A five foot (5') wide minimum foundation landscaped area shall be
provided at the wall line of any building face adjoining a street. A five foot
(5') wide minimum foundation landscaped area shall be provided at the wall line
of any building where a building front or front entry faces an interior side
yard.
         c.   All curb cuts shall be designed so as to create a means of
ingress and egress for each lot consistent with efficient traffic patterns and
to not unnecessary hinder traffic flow to and from other lots. Curb cuts shall
be limited to one for each eighty feet (80') of street frontage. A minimum
distance of one hundred feet (100') on center is required between all access
drives on a lot.
         d.   All parking lots located across the street from property zoned
for residential use shall be screened from those adjacent properties by a
continuous shrub buffer, not less than three feet (3') in height. Such
landscaping shall include earth berms where feasible, shade, ornamental and
evergreen trees.
         e.   All parking lots located across the street from properties zoned
for nonresidential use shall be landscaped with a shrub buffer covering not
less than twenty five percent (25%) of the street frontage at a height of not
less than three feet (3'). Such landscaping shall include earth berms where
feasible, shade, ornamental and evergreen trees.
         f.   Except where landscaped beds or plant materials are present, all
remaining unpaved areas shall be sodded or seeded.
         g.   The right of way or private street easement of any abutting
street shall be landscaped from the curb of said street to the lot line.
      2.   Rear and Side Yards:
         a.   All parking lots located adjacent to properties zoned for
residential use shall be buffered by a solid landscape screen at a minimum
height of six feet (6'). The screen shall consist of evergreen or deciduous
shrubs, or a combination of both as approved by the Village. Such screen shall
include earth berms, deciduous, evergreen or ornamental trees where feasible. A
six foot (6') solid wood fence may be substituted for plant material if
approved by the Village. Shade trees shall be planted the equivalent of eighty
feet (80') on center at a caliper of not less than three inches (3"), measured
six inches (6") above grade. Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved by
the Village.
         b.   All parking lots abutting properties zoned for nonresidential use
shall be buffered from adjacent properties by plant material covering not less
than twenty five percent (25%) of the frontage at a minimum height of three
feet (3'). Such screen shall also include earth berms where feasible,
deciduous, evergreen and ornamental trees. Shade trees shall be planted the
equivalent of eighty feet (80') on center along the buffer, at a caliper of not
less than three inches (3"), measured six inches (6") above grade. Trees may be
clustered or staggered if approved by the Village.
         c.   Except where landscaped beds or plant materials are present, all
remaining unpaved areas shall be sodded or seeded.
         d.   All parking lots or driveways shall be located a minimum of ten
feet (10') from all side and rear property lines or five feet (5') from any
drainage easements along such property lines, whichever is greater. (Ord. 94-
27, 11-30-94)
   F.   Design Criteria/Building Foundation Planting:
      1.   Size: A minimum setback of twelve feet (12') in width adjacent to
the building shall be devoted to landscaping, except where walks, parking lots
and service drives are required.
      2.   Materials:
         a.   Foundation planting shall consist of a combination of deciduous,
evergreen and ornamental trees, deciduous and evergreen shrubs. Ground layer,
except where plantings exist, shall consist of sod or ground cover.
         b.   All mechanical and electrical equipment, dumpsters, loading areas
and bicycle racks shall be screened from public view with a solid evergreen
hedge or fence.
   G.   Design Criteria/Site Perimeter Landscaping: All plans submitted for
review shall include perimeter landscaping as follows:
      1.   Properties Abutting Residential Property:
         a.   All properties located adjacent to properties zoned for
residential use shall be screened from view with a continuous solid screen not
less than six feet (6') in height. The screen shall consist of earth berms, a
solid wood fence six feet (6') in height, or other barrier acceptable to the
Village.
         b.   Deciduous shade trees shall be planted the equivalent of one
hundred feet (100') on center. Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved
by the Village.
         c.   In addition to the barrier and shade trees, the Village may
require additional plant materials including deciduous, evergreen and flowering
trees, ornamental and evergreen shrubs.
         d.   Ground layer material, unless occupied by plant materials, shall
be sodded or seeded.
      2.   Properties Abutting Nonresidential Property:
         a.   All properties abutting property zoned for nonresidential use
shall include the equivalent of one shade tree, one hundred feet (100') on
center. Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved by the Village.
         b.   In addition, the Village may require additional landscaping
consisting of earth berms, evergreen, deciduous and ornamental trees, deciduous
and evergreen shrubs.
         c.   All ground layer material, unless occupied by plant material,
shall be sodded or seeded.
   H.   Installation and Maintenance:
      1.   Installation:
         a.   Site preparation work shall not be undertaken until a certificate
of acceptance is issued for the landscape development plan.
         b.   All landscaping shall be installed in conformance with procedures
established by the American Association of Nurserymen.
         c.   Plant material shall be consistent with all requirements set
forth in the "American Standard for Nursery Stock" published by the American
Association of Nurserymen, latest edition.
         d.   Prior to construction, the owner shall submit a performance and
material and labor payment bond in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of
the estimated cost of landscape construction, in a form acceptable to the
Village. The bond shall also insure completion of the work, repair of all
damages caused by the owner; and replacement of all items not in conformance
with the approved landscape development plan.
         e.   Prior to issuance of any occupancy permit, the owner must submit
evidence of substantial completion of the landscape work. In the event of
delays caused by environmental conditions, the owner may present a performance
bond in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of
landscaping and irrigation, or a letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
Village for receipt of a temporary occupancy permit. The temporary permit will
be valid for a period of one hundred fifty (150) days.
      2.   Maintenance: The owner shall submit detailed plan of maintenance
procedures to be used to protect and promote the growth of the approved
plantings and landscaping materials for a period of at least two (2) full
growing seasons after completion of all landscaping. The owner shall provide a
bond or letter of credit in a sum equal to ten percent (10%) of the estimated
cost of the landscape construction and plantings to guarantee that the plan of
maintenance is followed and that the plantings are alive and growing at the end
of the second growing season. The bond or letter of credit shall be in the same
form as is provided for the maintenance of accepted subdivision improvements
under the Subdivision Ordinance of the Village 1 . The bond or letter of credit
shall be submitted and approved before the Village issues an occupancy permit
for the building upon the premises being landscaped.
      3.   Replacement: The owner shall replace all dead material within the
next growing season. (Ord. 88-03, 3-23-88)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
ARTICLE B. II INTENSIVE INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-7B-1: Purpose
8-7B-2: Classification Criteria
8-7B-3: Design Criteria
8-7B-4: Permitted Principal Uses
8-7B-5: Permitted Accessory Uses Within An Office Building
8-7B-6: Permitted Freestanding Or Attached Accessory Structures
8-7B-7: Permitted Nonstructural Accessory Uses
8-7B-8: Special Uses
8-7B-9: Lot And Bulk Standards
8-7B-10: Temporary Signs
8-7B-11: Permanent Signs
8-7B-12: Traffic Directional Signs
8-7B-13: Exterior Lighting
8-7B-14: Off Street Parking
8-7B-15: Off Street Loading
8-7B-16: Design Review
8-7B-17: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
8-7B-18: Industrial Performance Standards
8-7B-18-1: Permit Procedure
8-7B-18-2: Performance Standards
8-7B-18-3: Enforcement
8-7B-19: Tree Survey And Preservation
8-7B-20: Landscape Development Plan
8-7B-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Use: The purpose of the II industrial district is to govern the
planning, location and development of certain properties within the zoning
jurisdiction of the village for office, research, light industrial,
administrative and related service industry nonresidential uses. Such uses
shall be in harmony with the character of the village.
   B.   Tax Base And Employment Opportunities: The II industrial district is
provided to enhance the property tax base of local taxing jurisdictions, and to
provide employment opportunities for the residents of the community. (Ord. 91-
04A, 5-22-1991)
8-7B-2: CLASSIFICATION CRITERIA:
For a parcel of land to qualify for consideration for classification as an II
industrial district, it must meet the following planning criteria:
   A.   Area: Any area which is zoned II industrial district should not be less
than twenty (20) acres, excluding adjoining street rights of way. Such sites
may be subdivided in accord with the provisions of the subdivision regulations
of the village (see title 9 of this code). Whenever petition is made to rezone
an area to II industrial district, or to add an area to an II industrial
district, the owners thereof shall also petition for the resubdivision of any
parcels of land therein into the minimum areas and frontages hereinafter
required for a building site in the II industrial district, to be entitled to
have such rezoning petition considered.
   B.   Adjoining Uses: II industrial districts shall not be located in
predominantly residential areas of the village, but rather in areas where all
the boundaries of the district are adjoining to industrial or commercial zoned
areas established by zoning in the village or in its comprehensive plan.
   C.   Utilities: All uses established in the II industrial district must be
served by sanitary sewer facilities. Individual private wells are not
permitted. Potable water shall be provided by a community water system. All
utilities shall be installed underground and shall provide for appropriate
safety measures or other controls, whether of a temporary or permanent nature,
as set forth by village, county, state or federal government agencies. Any
connection of underground utilities involving crossing a street shall be
accomplished only by augering and casing the carrier pipe. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-
1991)
8-7B-3: DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Site Development and Building Character: Site planning and development
in an II Industrial District and buildings constructed in it shall be
compatible with the uses which are adjacent or nearby the District. All
construction and building plans shall be submitted for review and approval by
the Village, as hereinafter provided in Section
8-7B-16, to assure such compatibility. Notwithstanding that a development or
building proposal may appear to meet the specific improvement or use criteria
set forth in this Article, the approval provided for in Section
8-7B-16 shall also require that the proposal preserve the aesthetic values of
the District and the area surrounding it, and not be incompatible with the
prevailing character of the Village. Common brick, concrete block, split face
block, corrugated metal or pre-engineered metals installed with exposed
fasteners are prohibited on any building exterior wall.
   B.   Landscaping: In addition to meeting the foregoing criteria for approval
of improvements, landscaping shall be required which conforms to those criteria
and which enhances the topographical and natural features of the site such as
water features, unique natural areas, wood areas, tree masses, views and
vistas.
   C.   Signage: Signs, street graphics and related identity symbols shall
harmonize with the overall character of the parcel's development and shall
clearly be incidental to the total visual impact of the development.
   D.   Outside Storage: Any articles, goods or materials to be stored other
than in a building shall be properly screened from streets and adjacent lots by
landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or screening that is
compatible with building architecture.
   E.   Screening of Equipment and Utilities: All equipment relating to the use
or operation of a building, whether adjacent to the building, attached to a
building wall or roof mounted, including electrical equipment or transformers,
heating, air conditioning or ventilating equipment, telephone or communications
equipment, or storage tanks, shall be properly screened from streets and
adjacent lots by landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or
screening that is compatible with building architecture.
   F.   Multiple Buildings or Structures: When multiple buildings or structures
are planned as part of a single ownership project, all buildings or structures
shall be of similar, compatible design and materials. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7B-4: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
Permitted principal uses shall only be the following:
Advertising display construction (a manufacturing facility).
Agricultural implement sales, service, indoor.
Bakeries, wholesale.
Blueprinting or photostat shop.
Bottling companies.
Carpet and rug cleaning plant.
Catering service.
Civic buildings.
Contractor's equipment storage, indoor.
Dry cleaning and dyeing plant.
Exterminating shop.
Farrier, blacksmith.
Food locker.
Food processing and packing.
Furniture cleaning plant
Furniture repair or refinishing shop, sales.
Grain elevator.
Greenhouse, nonretail.
Health club or fitness center.
Ice sales.
Industrial use, including but not limited to: assembly, cleaning, compounding,
fabrication, manufacture, mixing, packaging, processing, production, repair,
servicing, storage and testing which can meet the industrial performance
standards (Section
8-7B-2).
Landscape contractor's storage yard or plant, indoor.
Landscaping materials and supplies, sales.
Laundry.
Machine shop.
Mail order house.
Meat packing.
Medical laboratory.
Mirror supply, refinishing.
Motor-rail freight terminal.
Office District uses:
Business or professional school.
Conference center.
Financial institution.
Medical office.
Office, business, professional, institutional.
Office, governmental.
Real estate office.
Research laboratories.
Ornamental iron work shop.
Park, public.
Printing and photocopying service.
Septic tank sales and service.
Sign shop.
Telephone exchange.
Upholstery shop.
Warehouse (excluding self-storage or mini-warehouse).
Welding shop.
Well drilling service. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91; amd. Ord. 2025-O-04, 2-26-2025)
8-7B-5: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES WITHIN AN OFFICE BUILDING:
The cumulative total floor area of all accessory uses within an office building
shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total floor area of the building.
Permitted accessory uses within an office building shall only be the following:
   A.   Office supply store.
   B.   Travel agent.
   C.   Printing shop.
   D.   Blueprinting and drafting supply store.
   E.   Barber shop.
   F.   Beauty shop.
   G.   Computer software and hardware sales and repair service.
   H.   Health club or fitness center.
   I.   Restaurant or cafeteria.
   J.   Tobacco shop.
   K.   Newspaper stand.
   L.   Pharmacy.
   M.   Florist.
   N.   Book store.
   O.   Greeting card and gift shop.
   P.   Child care facility.
      1.   Application for permission to construct or operate a child care
facility shall be accompanied by copies of all valid permits issued and
required by the State of Illinois, Department of Child and Family Services, and
any other applicable County, State or Federal agency. If such permits cannot be
obtained prior to the time of application, the application shall be accompanied
by a report from the appropriate licensing agency, if any, stating the
licensing requirements and a statement as to how the applicant intends to meet
these requirements.
      2.   Applications for permission to construct or operate a child care
facility shall be accompanied by a report and recommendation from the Lake
County Health Department.
      3.   There shall be a minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of safe
outdoor play area for every child for which the facility is licensed to
accommodate.
      4.   There shall be a minimum of thirty five (35) square feet of usable
indoor floor area for every child for which the facility is licensed to
accommodate. Usable floor area does not include administrative space, storage
areas, bathrooms, hallways, kitchen, or other areas that are not used for
direct activities with children.
      5.   All outdoor play areas shall be fenced.
      6.   No outdoor play apparatus or play field shall be located in any
required buffer yard or next to a pond, railroad track, street or other hazard.
      7.   Nothing contained within this Article shall prohibit the
establishment or operation of a noncommercial child day care facility which has
been licensed by the State and is accessory and incidental to a principal use.
As a noncommercial accessory use, the day care facility shall accommodate only
the children of persons employed on the premises or shall accommodate children
only on an irregular basis solely for the convenience of the patrons of the
principal use. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7B-6: PERMITTED FREESTANDING OR ATTACHED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
The cumulative total floor area of all freestanding or attached accessory
structures shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the area of the principal
building for parking structures, and ten percent (10%) thereof for other
accessory structures. No such freestanding or attached accessory use shall be
established prior to the principal use. Permitted freestanding or attached
accessory structures shall only be the following:
   A.   Automobile parking structure.
   B.   Shelter for commuter rail passengers.
   C.   Security gatehouse.
   D.   Covered automobile entrance drop-off area.
   E.   Cover over financial office drive-up teller station(s).
   F.   Utility and communications equipment enclosing structure(s).
G.   Fully enclosed shed not to exceed 225 square feet of floor area, 15 feet
in height, and one per lot. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91; amd. Ord. 2025-O-04, 2-26-
2025)
8-7B-7: PERMITTED NONSTRUCTURAL ACCESSORY USES:
No such nonstructural accessary use shall be established prior to the principal
use and shall only be the following:
   A.   Surface parking and loading areas for vehicles.
   B.   Open swimming pool.
   C.   Open tennis courts.
   D.   Sidewalks, plazas, playground and similar pedestrian areas for either
passive or active recreation.
   E.   Ponds, storm water detention basins, fountains or other water features.
   F.   Landscaping.
   G.   Freestanding signs, street graphics, or identity symbols.
   H.   Outdoor lighting fixtures.
   I.   Fences.
   J.   Driveways and internal vehicular circulation. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7B-8: SPECIAL USES:
In order to accomplish the general purpose of this Article, certain unusual
uses need special consideration. They require special regulations to achieve
compatibility with existing development and zoning. Often the effects of these
uses on the surrounding environment cannot be foreseen until a specific site
has been proposed. They must be given special consideration and located
relative to the existing development pattern. They are not permitted
automatically but are subject to the issuance of a special use permit as
provided in Section
8-10-1 of this Title and subject to the standards set forth herein and such
additional standards or conditions as may be established by the Village at the
time of approval of a special use permit.
   A.   Permit Categories: Such special permit uses fall into two (2)
categories:
      1.   Uses operated either by a public agency or publicly-related utility,
or uses traditionally effected with a public interest.
      2.   Uses entirely private in character but of such a nature that the
operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact upon
neighboring property or public facilities, and including the following:
Agricultural implement sales, service, outdoor.
Automobile body shop.
Boatworks, custom building and repair only.
Building materials sales yard.
Bulk material storage.
Contractor's equipment storage yard.
Employee food service facility.
Fuel sales; oil, coal, wood, butane and propane.
Hotel or motel.
Junk yard.
Lumber, retail sales.
Machinery storage yard.
Mobile home sales, service.
Monument works.
Radio and television station and studio.
Recreational vehicle sales and service.
Truck sales, repair.
Truck terminal.
Truck, trailer rental.
Warehouse, self-storage or mini-warehouse.
   B.   Special Standards: In addition to the general provisions for special
uses as set forth in the first paragraph of this Section and all other
applicable standards of this Article, the following special standards shall be
met for the special uses listed below:
      1.   Agricultural implement sales, service, outdoor:
         a.   All work or service on agricultural implements shall be conducted
indoors.
         b.   All agricultural implements shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7B-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Agricultural implements stored outdoors shall
only be located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any
otherwise required parking area.
      2.   Automobile body shop:
         a.   Parking for vehicles in service shall be screened at a minimum
from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high
minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7B-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed parking area. Vehicles stored or parked for service outdoors
shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any
otherwise required parking area.
         b.   All service on vehicles shall be conducted indoors.
         c.   No vehicles shall be used for storage except for the time in
which they are being loaded and unloaded for transportation of goods onto or
off the site, which shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
         d.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any vehicle
shall be allowed in the II District.
      3.   Boatworks, custom building and repair only:
         a.   All work or service on boats shall be conducted indoors.
         b.   All outdoor storage of boats shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum., or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7B-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Boats stored outdoors shall only be located in
this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise required parking
area.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any boat shall
be allowed in the II District.
      4.   Building material sales yard:
         a.   All materials stored outdoors shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7B-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Materials stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   In no case shall the height of materials stored outdoors exceed
the height of the screening.
         c.   Building materials stored outdoors shall not include any salvage
materials, scrap metal, rags, paper, vehicle parts, or any type of refuse.
         d.   Building materials shall not be stored in any parked vehicle or
trailer except for the time in which they are being loaded and unloaded, which
shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
      5.   Bulk material storage:
         a.   All bulk materials stored outdoors shall be screened at a minimum
from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high
minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7B-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Materials stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   Bulk materials stored outdoors shall not include any salvage
materials, scrap metal, rags, paper, vehicle parts, or any type of refuse.
         c.   Bulk materials shall not be stored in any parked vehicle or
trailer except for the time in which they are being loaded and unloaded, which
shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
      6.   Contractor's equipment storage yard:
         a.   All contractor's equipment stored outdoors shall be screened at a
minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8')
high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7B-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Equipment stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   In no case shall the height of the contractor's equipment stored
outdoors exceed the height of the screening.
         c.   All repair or servicing of any equipment shall be conducted
indoors.
      7.   Employee Food Service Facility:
         a.   All such facilities shall be considered an accessory use to any
otherwise permitted use.
         b.   Such facilities shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the floor
area of the principal use.
         c.   Such facilities shall be for the exclusive use of the owners,
employees, tenants or guests of the principal use.
         d.   No sign visible to the general public shall indicate the
existence of the employee food service facility nor shall its existence be
advertised to the general public.
         e.   In no case shall the use of the employee food service facility
predate the substantial installation and operation of the principal use. The
use of the employee food service facility shall cease immediately upon
termination of the principal use.
         f.   No service of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted.
      8.   Fuel sales; oil, coal, wood, butane and propane:
         a.   All fuel types stored outdoors shall be screened at a minimum
from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high
minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7B-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Fuel stored outdoors shall only be located in
this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise required parking
area.
         b.   In no case shall the height of the fuel stored outdoors exceed
the height of the screening.
         c.   All fuel storage must meet Illinois State Fire Marshal
regulations and receive local fire marshal approval.
         d.   All fuel storage must be setback 225 feet from a Federal
Emergency Management Agency designated 500-year floodplain or flood of record
boundary and any wetland or waterbody.
      9.   Hotel or Motel:
         a.   The minimum lot area for any hotel or motel is two (2) acres.
         b.   Ingress and egress to and from all rooms shall be through an
inside lobby supervised at all times through a common entrance.
         c.   Accessory uses to any hotel or motel shall be limited to those
uses customarily and historically associated with them for the accommodation of
the guests, including meeting rooms, restaurant and outdoor recreation
facilities.
         d.   All outdoor recreation facilities shall be securely fenced and
for the exclusive use of the guests.
      10.   Lumber, Retail Sales:
         a.   All lumber, wood products and related building materials and
supplies offered for sale shall be stored indoors and no outdoor storage of any
type shall be permitted.
         b.   All buildings and structures shall be fully enclosed.
      11.   Machinery Storage Yard:
         a.   All machinery stored outdoors shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum. , or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7B-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Machinery stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   In no case shall the height of the machinery stored outdoors
exceed the height of the screening.
         c.   All repair or servicing of any machinery shall be done indoors.
      12.   Mobile Home Sales, Service:
         a.   Mobile homes in storage or parked for service shall be screened
at a minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet
(8') high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10')
high minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7B-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Mobile homes stored or parked
for service outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and
separated from any otherwise required parking area.
         b.   All service and work on mobile homes shall be conducted indoors.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any mobile home
shall be allowed in the II District.
      13.   Monument Works:
         a.   All outdoor materials storage areas shall be screened at a
minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8')
high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7B-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Materials stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   All manufacturing or other work on monuments shall be done
indoors.
      14.   Radio and Television Studio:
         a.   No tower or antenna shall be visible from the nearest residential
zoning district.
         b.   The operation of any transmitter, antenna or other equipment
shall not cause interference any other form of radio or television device
within the Village.
      15.   Recreational Vehicle Sales and Service:
         a.   Recreational vehicles in storage or parked for service shall be
screened at a minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing
eight feet (8') high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten
feet (10') high minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7B-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Recreational vehicles stored
or parked for service outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure
area and separated from any otherwise required parking area. The only locations
of recreational vehicles on display for sale shall be as approved in the
Special Use Permit plans.
         b.   All service or work on recreational vehicles shall be done
indoors.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any recreational
vehicle shall be allowed in the II district.
   16.   Truck Sales, Repair:
         a.   Trucks and trailers in storage or parked for service shall be
screened at a minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing
eight feet (8') high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten
feet (10') high minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7B-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Trucks and trailers stored or
parked for service outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure
area and separated from any otherwise required parking area.
         b.   All service or work on trucks and trailers shall be done indoors.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any truck shall
be allowed in the II District.
      17.   Truck Terminal
         a.   A truck terminal shall only be located on a lot with a minimum of
10 acres and shall be the only use of that lot.
         b.   All truck and trailer activity areas shall be screened at a
minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8')
high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7B-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Trucks and trailers stored or
parked outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and
separated from any otherwise required parking area.
         c.   No truck or trailer shall be used for storage except for the time
in which they are being loaded and unloaded for transportation of goods onto or
off the site, which shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
      18.   Truck, Trailer Rental:
         a.   All trucks and trailers offered for rent shall be screened at a
minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8')
high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7B-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Trucks and trailers stored or
parked outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and
separated from any otherwise required parking area.
         b.   No servicing or repair of trucks or trailers shall be permitted
on the property.
         c.   No truck or trailer shall be used for storage except for the time
in which they are being loaded and unloaded for transportation of goods onto or
off the site, which shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
         d.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any truck shall
be allowed in the II District.
      19.   Warehouse, Self-Storage or Mini-Warehouse:
         a.   This use shall be defined as a single building or group of
buildings in a controlled access and fenced compound that contains varying
sizes of individual compartmentalized stalls or lockers for the dead storage of
customers' goods or wares.
         b.   A site for such a use shall not exceed three (3) acres.
         c.   The building height shall not exceed twenty five feet (25') or
two (2) stories.
         d.   Vehicular ingress and egress shall be limited to one access point
on the site's principal street frontage.
         e.   There shall be a minimum of thirty five feet (35') between
warehouse buildings for driveways, parking and fire lane purposes. Where no
parking is provided within the building separation areas, the building
separation may be twenty five feet (25').
         f.   The facilities shall be used for dead storage only, and no
radioactive, explosive or biohazardous material may be stored on the premises.
         g.   No auctions, commercial sales, garage sales or the like shall be
conducted on the premises.
         h.   The servicing or repairing of motor vehicles, boats, trailers,
lawn mowers or other similar equipment shall not be conducted on the premises.
         i.   A resident manager shall be required on the site and shall be
responsible for maintaining the operation in conformance with the requirements
of this Article.
      20.   Junk Yard:
         a.   Any junk yard, scrap yard or salvage yard for which permission is
granted under this Section shall at all times be subject to the performance
established in Section
8-7B-18-2 of this Chapter.
         b.   All outdoor storage areas shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7B-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Outdoor storage shall only be located in this
screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise required parking area.
Storage above the height of such fence is expressly prohibited.
         c.   Any junk or salvage yard which offers to the public at retail any
new or used merchandise shall provide at least two (2) parking spaces per one
hundred (100) square feet of retail floor space.
         d.   The site shall contain at least two hundred thousand (200,000)
square feet of area.
         e.   All gasoline, motor oils, brake and transmission fluids,
antifreeze, hydraulic fluids, battery acid, freon or other liquid fluorinated
hydrocarbons, and other fluids shall be removed immediately from all salvaged
vehicles, appliances, or other goods. Such fluids shall be stored and disposed
of in such a manner to prevent soil, air, water and environmental contamination
of the subject site and prevent contaminations of surrounding properties and
waterways. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91; amd. Ord. 2025-O-04, 2-26-2025)
8-7B-9: LOT AND BULK STANDARDS:
   A.   Lot Area: Every lot or parcel shall have a minimum area of two hundred
thousand (200,000) square feet. Any nonconforming lot or parcel shall not be
entitled to be used as a principal building site, but may be used in
conjunction with an adjacent conforming lot or parcel for accessory uses.
   B.   Lot Frontage: Every lot or parcel shall have a minimum frontage of
three hundred feet (300') measured at the front lot line. Any nonconforming lot
or parcel shall not be entitled to be used as a principal building site, but
may be used in conjunction with an adjacent conforming lot or parcel for
accessory uses.
   C.   Building Coverage: Not more than fifty percent (50%) of the area of a
lot may be covered by all buildings and structures.
   D.   Floor Area: The total floor area of all buildings and structures on a
lot shall not exceed seventy percent (70%) of the area of the lot.
   E.   Building Setbacks: The required minimum setbacks from the property line
of a lot are set forth below:
      1.   Front yard: 100 feet.
      2.   Side yard: 50 feet.
      3.   Side yard adjoining a street: 100 feet.
      4.   Rear yard: 50 feet.
      5.   Rear yard adjoining a railroad right of way: 5 feet.
      6.   Additional Setback: There shall be two feet (2') additional setback
required for each one foot (1') of building height over twenty five feet (25').
   F.   Building Height: No principal building or structure shall exceed sixty
five feet (65') or five (5) stories in height including fully enclosed rooftop
mechanical equipment penthouses.
   G.   Storage of Garbage and Trash: All garbage cans, trash containers and
other storage devices situated on any lot shall be properly screened from
streets and adjacent lots by landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping
materials or screening that is compatible with building architecture. All
garbage cans, trash containers and other garbage storage devices shall be
rodentproof and shall be emptied and the contents thereof properly disposed of
not less than once every seven days. There shall be no trash burning or
incineration devices or facilities.
   H.   Parking Area Setbacks: The minimum setback from the property line of a
lot are set forth below:
      1.   Front yard: 35 feet.
      2.   Side yard: 50 feet.
      3.   Side yard adjoining a street: 35 feet.
      4.   Rear yard: 20 feet.
      5.   Rear yard adjoining a railroad right of way: 5 feet. (Ord. 91-04A,
5-22-91)
8-7B-10: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
Temporary signs shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in height Temporary signs
shall be limited to the following:
   A.   Realtor Signs: During the course of construction, temporary real estate
and realtor signs may be erected which advertise the sale, rental or lease of
the premises upon which signs are located, provided, however, that no more than
one double-faced unilluminated sign shall be permitted on any lot or parcel
Such signs shall be removed within thirty (30) days after such sale or lease of
the premises or within thirty (30) days of reaching ninety five percent (95%)
initial occupancy. No such sign shall exceed thirty two (32) square feet per
face.
   B.   Construction Signs: Unilluminated construction signs denoting the
architect, engineer, contractor and related consultants may be erected during
construction. There shall be only one such sign per building, and it shall not
exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area. The sign shall be on or within twenty
feet (20') of the building. Such signs shall be removed upon completion at the
building. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7B-11: PERMANENT SIGNS:
Permanent signs shall be "on-premises only" subject to the types and controls
listed as follows:
   A.   Wall Signs: Wall signs shall only be permitted on building walls facing
a street, road or highway. There shall be no more than one wall sign per street
frontage. The size of wall signs shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet in
area.
   B.   Address Sign: Each building shall have a sign containing its address
and shall not exceed six (6) square feet in area.
   C.   Freestanding Signs: In addition to the wall sign, there may be no more
than one freestanding multi-faced sign per building. No freestanding sign face
shall exceed thirty (30) square feet in area, and the height shall not exceed
six feet (6') above the grade of the nearest adjoining street or driveway. No
freestanding sign shall be located closer than fifteen feet (15') from any lot
line.
   D.   Identity Symbols: Each II Industrial District subdivision may have a
single identity symbol, architectural feature, or entrance feature. Such
symbols or features shall not have a total surface area in excess at two
hundred eighty four feet (284') or a height greater than eighteen feet (18')
above average lot grade.
   E.   Illumination: All permanent signs may be back lighted, illuminated by
spotlights shielded to eliminate glare on adjoining roads or property, or have
letters, but not backgrounds, that are lighted by internal sources. No flashing
or blinking signs are permitted. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7B-12: TRAFFIC DIRECTIONAL SIGNS:
Traffic directional signs shall be required to indicate and control the flow of
traffic and ingress and egress routes on each lot or parcel. All such signs
shall be of a size and type and otherwise meet all the uniform standards for
traffic- control signs of the Illinois Department of Transportation. (Ord. 91-
04A, 5-22-91)
8-7B-13: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
All parking lots, internal driveways and walkways shall be illuminated in
accord with the following standards:
   A.   Luminaries: All exterior lighting luminaries shall be baffled so that
glare is minimized. All luminaries shall be designed so that the cut-off line
of light is at least ten feet (10') within the property line. The maximum
permitted height of luminaries shall be thirty feet (30').
   B.   Illumination: The maximum permitted level of illumination is three
(3.0) foot-candles. Illumination shall be measured in foot-candles at six
inches (6") above ground level in a horizontal position at the point ten feet
(10') inside the property line. A direct reading portable light meter with
color and cosine corrected sensor with multiple scales shall be used. The meter
shall have been tested and calibrated to an accuracy of plus or minus five
percent (±5%) within one year of its use. Measurements shall be made after
dark. The difference between lights-on measurements and lights-off measurements
shall be used to determine the illumination level and to eliminate the effects
of ambient light. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7B-14: OFF-STREET PARKING:
No on-street parking shall be permitted in any II Industrial District. All uses
in the II Industrial District shall be provided with off-street parking
designed to provide for one hundred percent (100%) of the required parking for
the proposed use at peak occupancy.
   A.   Calculation of Number of Spaces: In determining the total parking
required, any fraction shall be counted as one parking space.
   B.   Size: Each parking space shall be at least nine feet by eighteen feet
(9' x 18') in size and shall be a definitely designated stall adequate for one
motor vehicle. Two percent (2%) of all required parking spaces shall be
designated for handicapped parking and shall be twelve feet by eighteen feet
(12' x 18') in size and located as close as possible to the entrance(s) of the
building or use for which the parking is intended. Adequate access aisles to
each stall and to the street shall be provided.
   C.   Multiple Uses: If multiple uses on a lot vary in their parking
requirements, the number of parking spaces shall be the sum of the individual
requirements for each use. However, where peak parking requirements occur at
distinctly different times of the day or week, the total number of spaces may
be reduced. In no case shall the total number of spaces be less than the hourly
peak concentration at the combined uses on the site.
   D.   Surface: All parking facilities, access driveways and aisles, and other
internal vehicular circulation shall be paved.
   E.   Number of Spaces: The following are the minimum of off- street parking
spaces required to be built or reserved for each use within the II Industrial
District:
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Advertising display construction        spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Agricultural implement sales, service   spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 300 square feet in
Automobile body shop                    addition to spaces reserved for cars
                                         in storage for service
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Bakeries, wholesale                     spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Blueprinting or photostat shop          1 space per 300 square feet
Boatworks, custom building and repair    1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
only                                    spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Bottling companies                      spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Building material sales yard            1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Bulk material storage                   spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Carpet and rug cleaning                 spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Catering service                        1 space per 300 square feet
Civic buildings                         1 space per 250 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Contractor's equipment storage, indoor  spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Contractor's equipment storage yard     spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Dry cleaning and dyeing plant           spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Exterminating shop                      1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Farrier, blacksmith                     spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Food locker                             spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Food processing and packing             spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Fuel sales                              spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Furniture cleaning plant                spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Furniture repair or refinishing         1 space per 300 square feet
shop
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Grain elevator                          spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Greenhouse, nonretail                   spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Health club or fitness center           1 space per 250 square feet
Hotel or motel                          1 space per suite plus spaces as
                                         otherwise required for accessory uses
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Ice sales                               spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Industrial use                          spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 100 square feet of retail
Junk yard                               floor space plus 2 spaces for every 3
                                         employees
Landscape contractors storage yard or    1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
plant                                   spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Landscaping materials and supplies,      1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
sales                                   spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Laundry                                 spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Lumber, retail sales                    1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Machine shop                            spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Machinery storage yard                  spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Mail order house                        spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Meat packing plant                      spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Medical laboratory                      1 space per 300 square feet
Mirror supply, refinishing              1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Mobile home sales, service              spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Monument works                          spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Motor-rail freight terminal             spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Office District uses:                    
 Business or professional school       1 space per 1,000 square feet plus 1
                                         space per 2 students
 Conference center                     1 space per 1,000 square feet plus 1
                                         space per 2 patrons
 Financial institution                 1 space per 250 square feet, plus 6
                                         stacking spaces per drive-up teller
 Medical office                        1 space per 200 square feet
 Office; business, professional        1 space per 300 square feet
  institutional
 Office, governmental                  1 space per 250 square feet
 Real estate office                    1 space per 250 square feet
 Research laboratories                 1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Ornamental iron work shop               spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Park, public                            1 space per 3 persons based on design
                                         capacity
Printing and photocopying service       1 space per 300 square feet
Radio and television station            1 space per 300 square feet
Recreational vehicle sales               1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
and service                             spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Septic tank sales and service           spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Sign shop                               spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Telephone exchange                      1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Truck sales, repair                     spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Truck terminal                          spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Truck, trailer rental                   spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
Upholstery shop                         1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space for each 10 storage cubicles,
                                         equally distributed throughout the
Warehouse, self-storage or               storage area, plus 2 spaces for
mini-warehouse                          manager's quarters, plus 1 space for
                                         every 25 storage cubicles to be
                                         located at the project office for the
                                         use of prospective clients
Warehouse (excluding self- storage or    1 space per 2,500 square feet or 2
mini-warehouse)                         spaces per 3 employees, whichever is
                                         greater
Welding shop                            1 space per 300 square feet
                                         1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Well drilling service                   spaces for every 3 employees,
                                         whichever is greater
 
   F.   Future Parking Reserve: At the option of the builder of any building
and subject to the approval of the Plan Commission during the design review
process, a maximum of twenty five percent (25%) of the total required parking
spaces may be designated as a parking reserve subject to the following
standards:
      1.   The designated spaces shall be those located the farthest away from
the building.
      2.   The designated spaces shall be landscaped in a manner compatible
with the balance of the landscaping on the site.
      3.   The designated spaces shall not be a part of nor encroach upon any
otherwise required buffer yard or foundation yard or parking lot landscape
area.
      4.   In the sole discretion of the Village, if at any time there appears
to be a parking deficiency, no further occupancy permits shall be issued until
such time that the future parking spaces held in reserve are improved to
correct the deficiency.
      5.   Until such time as the building is ninety five percent (95%)
occupied, the builder shall guarantee that the designated future parking
reserve will be improved if required to meet the parking demand for the
building. Such guarantee shall be in the form of an irrevocable letter of
credit in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost
of constructing the spaces held in reserve, or such other form of guarantee
acceptable and approved by the Village. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7B-15: OFF-STREET LOADING:
All uses involving the receipt or distribution of goods by vehicle shall have
space on the premises for the pickup, delivery and service vehicles necessary
for normal daily operation. These spaces shall be in addition to the off-street
spaces required. Off-street loading facilities shall be provided in accord with
the following standards:
   A.   Number of Spaces: One space per building containing five thousand
(5,000) square feet to fifty thousand (50,000) square feet plus one additional
space for each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet or
fraction thereof.
   B.   Size: The minimum size of all required loading spaces shall be twelve
feet wide by forty feet in length (12' x 40') and shall have a vertical
clearance of fifteen feet (15').
   C.   Location: All required loading spaces shall meet the building setback
requirements. Loading spaces facing any street shall be interior.
   D.   Screening: All exterior loading spaces on the side or rear of any
building shall be screened from adjoining properties and the street by
landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or screening that is
compatible with building architecture. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7B-16: DESIGN REVIEW:
No building, improvement or structure shall be erected in the II Industrial
District that is not in compliance with design criteria set forth in Section
8-7B-3 hereof. No permit shall be issued for any building, improvement or
structure unless it has first been approved as complying with said design
criteria by the Plan Commission of the Village and by the Village Board as
herein provided. In the event that the Plan Commission rejects or fails to
approve any plans submitted for design review within forty five (45) days after
submission, the person submitting such plans may appeal from said rejection or
failure to approve in the same manner as herein provided for appeals from the
decisions of officers of the Village to the Board of Appeals of the Village, as
provided in Section
8-11-5 of this Title. If the Plan Commission rejects any plan, it shall state
the reason for rejection in writing.
   A.   Procedure: Prior to obtaining a building permit for any new
construction in the II Industrial District, three (3) sets of preliminary
design plans shall be submitted to the Building Department along with the
preliminary plan review fee. As otherwise required, building permits for all
interior modifications or interior tenant improvements and occupancy permits
for all changes in tenancy shall not be subject to the design review by the
Plan Commission unless either of these changes increases the number of parking
spaces required under this Article.
   B.   Building Department Review: The Building Commissioner shall review the
submitted preliminary designs to determine if they are complete and meet the
basic zoning, building and site development standards of the Village.
   C.   Plan Commission Review: Thereafter, the plans shall be submitted to the
Village Plan Commission for design review and comment. The Plan Commission
shall determine if the proposed site development, landscaping, building design
and signs satisfy the design criteria standards of this Article. The plan shall
then be submitted to the Village Board at a regular meeting for final approval.
Upon approval of the preliminary design plans, one set of approved plans shall
be returned to the applicant, one set shall be placed on file with the Building
Department, and one set shall be placed on file with the Plan Commission.
   D.   Building Permits: No building permit shall be issued that is not in
compliance with the approve preliminary design plans.
   E.   Required Preliminary Design Plan Documents:
      1.   Location Map: A dimensioned location map at a scale of one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger showing the relationship of the
subject site to adjoining properties, land uses, structures, streets and
natural features within one thousand feet (1,000') of the subject site. A
current plan review aerial photograph to a scale of one inch equals four
hundred feet (1" = 400') may be substituted in lieu of a map drawing.
      2.   Site Plan: A dimensioned site plan shall be prepared at a scale of
one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20') or larger, showing the following:
         a.   Surveyed property lines and easements.
         b.   Building setback lines and buffer yard lines.
         c.   All proposed buildings and structures.
         d.   All proposed nonstructural accessory uses.
         e.   Existing topography and proposed topography at one foot (1')
intervals at USGS datum.
         f.   Proposed finish floor and roof elevations at USGS datum.
         g.   Proposed landscaping plan in accordance with Sections
8-7-5-16 and
8-7-5-17 of this Title.
         h.   Proposed garbage and storage facilities.
         i.   Proposed exterior lighting and location of luminaries and
illumination level contours at one foot-candle intervals.
         j.   At the applicant's option, any other site plan design information
which the applicant feels may explain the site design concept.
      3.   Building Plans: Dimensioned preliminary building plans for all
building and structures shown on the site plan at a scale of one inch equals
eight feet (1" = 8') or larger showing the following:
         a.   Floor, penthouse and roof plans.
         b.   Elevations indicating materials, colors and textures.
         c.   Cross sections.
         d.   Proposed garbage and trash storage facilities.
         e.   At the applicant's option, any other drawings, material samples
or other information which the applicant feels may explain the building design
concept.
      4.   Sign Plans: A dimensioned drawing of all proposed temporary and
permanent signs at a scale of one inch equals one foot (1" = 1') or larger
indicating the following:
         a.   Sign materials, construction and supporting structure. Structural
calculations shall also be required for all freestanding signs of one hundred
(100) square feet or larger surface area.
         b.   Lettering and graphic information contents.
         c.   Colors and textures.
         d.   Method of illumination.
         e.   At the applicant's option, any other information, material
samples or drawings which the applicant feels may explain the sign design
concept. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7B-17: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
Before any building or other structure, or part thereof, shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, moved or structurally altered, a building
permit shall be obtained. Before the use of any building, structure or land is
changed, including any change in tenancy, an occupancy permit shall be
obtained. Any use or occupancy, which was not discontinued during any
alteration work, shall be discontinued within thirty (30) days after the
completion of the alteration if a new occupancy permit is not issued. (Ord. 91-
04A, 5-22-91)
8-7B-18: INDUSTRIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
It is the purpose of this Section to establish regulations and standards for
the installation and operation of industrial uses, based upon consideration of
the objectional characteristics of such uses and the zones in which they are
permitted. Further, this Section is intended to prescribe procedures and
methods of measurement of industrial characteristics subject to such standards.
(Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7B-18-1: PERMIT PROCEDURE:
Before the Building Commissioner issues a building permit for a use in any II
Intensive Industrial District the applicant shall furnish the Building
Commissioner sufficient information to enable the Building Commissioner to
assure himself that all performance standards and site development standards
set forth in this Article can and will be compiled with at all times. The
Building Commissioner, in order to determine whether or not the applicant will
meet such standards, may require the applicant to submit the following
information:
   A.   A plot plan showing the location of all present and proposed
structures, drives, parking lots, waste disposal areas, bulk storage areas,
streets, streams, or other significant features on or within two hundred feet
(200') of the proposed site.
   B.   A description of the activity to be conducted regarding waste products,
external effects or other conditions which are regulated herein; provided,
however, that the applicant shall not be required to reveal any trade secrets
of sufficient detail with regard to a process which would cause any secret
process or manufacturing procedure for a closely guarded proprietary compound
or product to become public knowledge and be available to competitors.
   C.   The type and location of abatement devices to control, or recording
instruments to measure, conformance with required standards, not including
devices and instruments which are inherent in the manufacturing process.
   D.   Such other data and certification as may reasonably be required by the
Building Commissioner to reach a determination.
All information and evidence submitted in applications to indicate conformity
to performance standards shall constitute a certification and an agreement on
the part of the applicant that the proposed use can and will conform to such
standards at all times. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7B-18-2: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
In II Intensive Industrial Districts, the following regulations shall apply:
   A.   Noise:
      1.   Permitted Noise Levels: At no point on or beyond the boundary of any
lot which abuts a lot in the same zone shall be sound pressure level resulting
from any use or activity, whether open or enclosed, exceed the maximum
permitted decibel levels for the designated octave band as set forth in Table 1
below:
   TABLE 1
   MAXIMUM PERMITTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL IN DECIBELS
Octave Band Frequency
Cycles Per Second Decibels
Cycles Per Second Decibels
0 -     74        67
75 -    149       59
150 -   299       52
300 -   599       46
600 -   1,199     40
1,200 - 2,399     34
2,400 - 4,799     32
4,800 - and over  32
 
      2.   Method of Measurement: Sound levels shall be measured with a sound
level meter and associated octave band filter and impact noise filter
manufactured according to standards prescribed by the American Standards
Association. Measurements shall be using the flat network and "slow" meter
response of the sound level meter. Impulsive type noises shall be subject to
the performance standards if those noises are capable of being accurately
measured with such equipment. Noises capable of being so measured, for the
purpose of this Section, shall be those noises which cause rapid fluctuations
of the needle of the sound level meter with a variation of no more than plus or
minus two (±2) decibels. Noises incapable of being so measured, but
objectionable because of intermittence, beat frequency or shrillness, shall be
controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
      3.   Exception: Nothing in this Section shall apply to noises not
directly under the control of the property user, noises resulting from the
construction and maintenance of building and facilities including site
preparation, noises of safety signals or warning devices, and noises of
railroad or trucking equipment.
   B.   Vibration: Steady-state vibrations, for the purpose of this Section,
are vibrations which are continuous or vibrations in discrete pulses more
frequent than one hundred (100) per minute. Discrete pulses which do not exceed
one hundred (100) impulses per minute shall not cause displacement in excess of
twice the values established in Table 2 below. Impact vibration shall mean
vibrations occurring in discrete pulses separated by an interval of at least
one minute and number no more than eight (8) per twenty four (24) hour period.
      1.   Permitted Vibration Displacements: At no point on or beyond the
boundary of any lot shall the ground-transmitted steady- state or impact
vibration caused by any use or activity (except those not directly under the
control of the property user) exceed the limits as established in Tables 2 and
3 below.
   TABLE 2
   MAXIMUM PERMITTED STEADY-STATE VIBRATION
   DISPLACEMENT IN INCHES
Frequency         Intensive Industrial Adjacent to Any
Cycles per Second District             Residential Zone
                  Inches               Inches
Frequency         Intensive Industrial Adjacent to Any
Cycles per Second District             Residential Zone
                  Inches               Inches
Less than 10      .0008                .0004
10 through 19     .0005                .0002
20 through 29     .0003                .0001
30 through 39     .0002                .0001
40 through 49     .0001                .0001
50 and over       .0001                .0001
 
   TABLE 3
   MAXIMUM PERMITTED IMPACT VIBRATION
   DISPLACEMENT IN INCHES
Frequency                                              Adjacent to Any
Cycles per Second Intensive Industrial District Inches Residential Zone
                                                       Inches
Frequency                                              Adjacent to Any
Cycles per Second Intensive Industrial District Inches Residential Zone
                                                       Inches
Less than 10      .0016                                .0006
10 through 19     .0010                                .0003
20 through 29     .0006                                .0002
30 through 39     .0004                                .0001
40 through 49     .0002                                .0001
50 and over       .0002                                .0001
 
      2.   Method of Measurement: For the purpose of measuring vibrations, a
three (3) component measuring system shall be used. A three (3) component
measuring system denotes instrumentation which can measure earthborn vibrations
in three (3) directions, each of which occurs at right angles to the other two
(2).
   C.   Smoke and Particulate Matter: The emission from all sources within any
lot, of particulate matter containing more than five percent (5%) by weight or
particles having a particle diameter larger than forty four (44) microns is
prohibited. Dust and other types of air pollution borne by the wind from such
sources as storage areas, yards and roads within the boundaries of any lot
shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate landscaping, paving, oiling or other
acceptable means. Emission of particulate matter from such sources in excess of
weight limitations specified herein is prohibited. The emission of smoke or
particulate matter of a density equal to, or greater than, No. 2 on the
Ringelmann Chart is prohibited at all times, except as otherwise provided
herein.
      1.   Smoke Emission: In II Intensive Industrial Districts, the emission
of more than twelve (12) smoke units per stack in any one hour period is
prohibited. However, once during any six (6) hour period each stack shall be
permitted up to twelve (12) additional units in a fifteen (15) minute period
for soot blowing and fire cleaning. Only during such fifteen (15) minute
periods shall smoke of a density equal to, but not exceeding, Ringelmann No. 3
be permitted, and then only for fire cleaning and for not more than four (4)
minutes per period.
      2.   Particulate Matter Emission: The rate of emission of particulate
matter from all sources within the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed the
rate established in Table 4 below:
   TABLE 4
   PERMITTED RATE OF PARTICULATE MATTER EMISSION
   IN POUNDS PER HOUR, PER ACRE
Height of Emission
Feet Pounds
Feet         Pounds
0 – 49     1.00
50 –99     1.01
100 149    1.06
150 199    1.10
200 299    1.16
300 399    1.30
400 and over 1.50
 
      3.   Methods of Measurement:
         a.   Smoke: For the purpose of grading the density of emission of
smoke, the Ringelmann Chart, published and used by the United States Bureau of
Mines, shall be employed. For the purpose of determining smoke units, the
Ringelmann density reading shall be made at least every minute during the
period of observation. Each reading (Ringelmann number) shall be multiplied by
the time in minutes for which it is observed, and the products added together
to determine the total number of smoke units observed during the total period
of observation.
         b.   Particulate Matter: The total net rate of emission of particulate
matter within the boundaries of any lot shall be determined as follows:
Determine the maximum emission in pounds per hour from each source of emission
and divide this figure by the number of acres of lot areas, thereby obtaining
the hourly rate of emission in pounds per acre. Add together the individual
rates of emission as derived above to obtain the total rate of emission from
all sources of emission within the boundaries of the lot. It is this total that
shall not exceed the rate established in Table 4 above.
   D.   Odors: No continuous, frequent or repetitive emission of odors or odor-
causing substances which would be offensive beyond any property line of any
industrial use will be permitted. An odor emitted no more than fifteen (15)
minutes in any one day shall not be deemed as continuous, frequent or
repetitive within the meaning of these regulations. The existence of an odor
shall be presumed when analysis by a competent technician demonstrates that a
discernible odor is being emitted. Any process which may involve the creation
or emission of any odors shall be provided with a primary and a secondary
safeguard system so that control will be maintained if the primary safeguard
system fails. The rules and regulations of the Illinois Air Pollution Control
Board shall be complied with.
   E.   Radiation Hazards: The handling of radioactive materials, the discharge
of such materials into air and water, and the disposal of radioactive wastes
shall be in conformance with: 1) the applicable regulations of the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, and 2) the applicable regulations of any instrumentality
of the State.
   F.   Fire and Explosive Hazards:
      1.   The provisions of 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 210/1001 through
210/4003 shall be complied with, and no explosives shall be stored, used or
manufactured without first submitting to the Zoning Officer an certificate of
compliance from the Illinois Department of Mines and Minerals.
      2.   No gasoline or other inflammables or explosives shall be stored
unless the location, plans and construction conform to the laws and regulations
of the State and have the approval of the State Division of Fire Prevention of
the Department of Public Safety.
   G.   Glare and Heat: Every use and activity shall be so operated that it
does not emit heat or heated air beyond the boundary of the lot on which it is
located. No direct or sky-reflected glare shall emanate from any use or
activity so as to be visible at any point on or beyond the boundary of the lot
on which such use or activity is located. This restriction shall not apply to
signs otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Article or other applicable
ordinances of the Village, nor to activities of a temporary or of an emergency
nature. Night lighting necessary for safety and the protection of property is
excluded from this provision.
   H.   Electromagnetic Interference: There shall be no electromagnetic
interference that adversely affects the operation of any equipment other than
that belonging to the creator of such interference, or that does not conform to
the regulations of the Federal Communications Commission. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-
91)
8-7B-18-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The Building Commissioner shall enforce the provisions of this Section. Upon
confirmation of a violation, enforcement and penalty provisions of Chapter 11
of this Title shall prevail. In addition, the Village may require the
installation, maintenance and operation by the offending industry of continuous
measuring or recording instruments to demonstrate the operation and to ensure
continuous compliance with the prescribed standards. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7B-19: TREE SURVEY AND PRESERVATION:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this section to govern the
removal of trees and other significant vegetation and ensure the replacement of
trees in public and private properties within the village.
   B.   Tree Survey: A tree survey plan indicating the location, size, genus
and species of all trees within the subject property shall be submitted to the
village. The plan shall indicate all trees designated for preservation. Site
plan review shall not commence until the survey is submitted to the village.
The tree survey shall include the following:
      1.   Topographic Survey: Existing and proposed contour elevations (1 foot
intervals) to determine long range adverse effects on plant materials
designated for preservation.
      2.   Implementation Techniques: The method used to ensure preservation of
retained vegetation shall be outlined in a written statement indicating care to
be taken during and after construction; including proximity of grading
operations to tree drip lines, installation of protective fencing and storage
of machinery and supplies.
   C.   Tree Removal Permit: All trees designated for removal having a trunk
diameter four inches (4") and greater measured six inches (6") above grade
shall require a tree removal permit. The permit shall be obtained from the
village prior to final site plan approval. The permit application shall include
a statement giving the reasons for removal. The village shall approve the
permit application if one or more of the following conditions is present:
      1.   The tree(s) is dead, diseased or in a weakened state.
      2.   The tree(s) poses a safety hazard to existing or proposed buildings,
pedestrians and vehicles.
      3.   The tree(s) does not conform to recognized principles of good
horticultural practice.
      4.   The tree(s) is located in areas designated for a proposed building
(s), circulation or parking activities.
   D.   Trees Designated For Preservation: In the event trees designated for
preservation have been destroyed or removed as the result of construction
damage, negligence or other operations within the first five (5) years
following construction completion, such trees shall be replaced in accordance
with the following schedule:
Diameter Of            Number Of   Replacement
Existing Tree          Replacement Caliper (6 Inches
(6 Inches Above Grade) Trees       Above Grade)
Diameter Of            Number Of   Replacement
Existing Tree          Replacement Caliper (6 Inches
(6 Inches Above Grade) Trees       Above Grade)
4" –6"               6           4"
7" –12"              7           4"
13" 18"              8           4"
19" 24"              9           4"
25" 30"              10          4"
31" 36"              11          4"
36" +                  12          4"
 
   E.   Species Of Trees: Replacement trees shall be limited to the following
species:
Acer      (Maple excluding silver maple)
Carya     (Hickory)
Celtis    (Hackberry)
Fraxinus  (Ash)
Ginkgo    (Ginkgo)
Gleditsia (Honeylocust)
Ostrya    (Hophornbeam)
Quercus   (Oak)
Tilia     (Linden)
Other species approved by the village
 
   F.   Amended Landscape Plan: An amended landscape development plan shall be
submitted for approval by the village. The plan shall indicate the location,
size, genus and species of all replacement trees. (Ord. 91-O-04A, 5-22-1991)
8-7B-20: LANDSCAPE DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this section to govern the
landscape improvement of all proposed development to enhance, protect and
preserve the appearance, character, health, safety and welfare of the village.
   B.   Plan Requirement: A landscape development plan shall be submitted to
the Village for all improvements requiring site and/or building review. The
plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include the location of all existing and
proposed structures, property lines, signs, walks, drives, loading areas,
dumpsters, lighting, parking areas, fences, walls, elevation changes, bicycle
parking facilities, freestanding electrical and mechanical equipment, water
features, landscape irrigation, plant material and other freestanding features.
   C.   Design Criteria/Right of Way: Landscaping shall be provided within the
right of way where a property abuts a dedicated public street as follows:
      1.   Ground Layer: All unpaved areas within public rights of way shall be
graded and sodded.
      2.   Parkway Trees:
         a.   Quantity: Parkway trees shall be planted at a spacing equivalent
to eighty feet (80') on center. Clustering or staggering of trees may be
acceptable if approved by the Village.
         b.   Size: Parkway trees shall be planted at a minimum trunk size of
three inches (3") caliper as measured six inches (6") above grade.
         c.   Species: Parkway trees shall be limited to the following species,
unless otherwise approved by the Village:
Acer      (Maple excluding Silver Maple)
Carya     (Hickory)
Celtis    (Hackberry)
Fraxinus  (Ash)
Ginko     (Ginko)
Gleditsia (Honeylocust)
Ostrya    (Hophornbeam)
Quercus   (Oak)
Tilia     (Linden)
Other species approved by the Village
 
   D.   Design Criteria/Parking Lot Interior Landscaping: All parking lots
designed for twenty (20) or more spaces shall contain the following:
      1.   Quantity: Not less than three percent (3%) of the interior of all
parking areas shall be devoted to live landscaping enclosed by approved
curbing.
         a.   The area devoted to landscaping shall be dispersed throughout the
lot.
         b.   One shade tree shall be required for every one hundred fifty
(150) square feet of landscaped area. In the event of a fraction of a tree, if
a fraction is less than one-half (1/2) tree, the lower full number shall be
used. If a fraction is one-half (1/2) tree or greater, the higher number shall
be used.
      2.   Size: Interior landscape areas shall be a minimum of one hundred
sixty (160) square feet. Areas shall have not less than eight feet (8') in
width measured from back-of-curb to back-of-curb.
      3.   Cover: Not less than fifty percent (50%) of all interior planting
areas shall consist of live landscaping.
   E.   Design Criteria/Parking Lot Perimeter Landscaping:
      1.   Front Yards: At the lot line, every lot shall have a minimum of a
thirty five foot (35') front landscaped yard. In addition, it shall be the
responsibility of the owner of any lot seeking a building permit to landscape
the right of way of any street from the curb of said street to the front lot
line. There shall be no parking or parking drives permitted in the front yards.
Access drives may cross the front yard where required. All curbs cuts shall be
designed so as to create a means of ingress and egress for each lot consistent
with efficient traffic patterns and to not unnecessarily hinder traffic flow to
and from other lots. Curb cuts shall be limited to one for each eighty feet
(80') of street frontage. A minimum distance of one hundred feet (100') on
center is required between all access drives on a lot.
      2.   Corner Yards:
         a.   All parking lots located across a dedicated right of way from
property zoned for residential use shall be screened from adjacent properties
by a continuous shrub buffer, not less than three feet (3') in height. Such
landscaping shall include earth berms where feasible, shade, ornamental and
evergreen trees.
         b.   All parking lots located across a dedicated right of way from
properties zoned for nonresidential use shall be landscaped with a shrub buffer
covering not less than twenty five percent (25%) of the street frontage at a
height of not less than three feet (3'). Such landscaping shall include earth
berms where feasible, shade, ornamental and evergreen trees.
         c.   Except where landscaped beds or materials are present, all front
and corner yards shall be sodded or seeded.
      3.   Rear and Side Yards:
         a.   All parking lots located adjacent to properties zoned for
residential use shall be buffered by a solid landscape screen at a minimum
height of six feet (6'). The screen shall consist of evergreen or deciduous
shrubs, or a combination of both as approved by the Village. Such screen shall
include earth berms, deciduous, evergreen or ornamental trees where feasible. A
six foot (6') solid wood fence may be substituted for plant material if
approved by the Village. Shade trees shall be planted the equivalent of eighty
feet (80') on center at a caliper of not less than inches (3"), measured six
inches (6") above grade. Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved by the
Village.
         b.   All parking lots abutting properties zoned for nonresidential use
shall be buffered from adjacent properties by plant material covering not less
than twenty five percent (25%) of the frontage at a minimum height of three
feet (3'). Such screen shall also include earth berms where feasible,
deciduous, evergreen and ornamental trees. Shade trees shall be planted the
equivalent of eighty feet (80') on center along the buffer, at a caliper of not
less than three inches (3"), measured six inches (6") above grade. Trees may be
clustered or staggered if approved by the Village.
         c.   Except where landscape beds or plant materials are present, all
side and rear yards shall be sodded or seeded.
         d.   All parking lots shall be located a minimum of five feet (5')
from all side and rear yards.
   F.   Design Criteria/Building Foundation Planting:
      1.   Size: A minimum setback of twelve feet (12') in width adjacent to
the building shall be devoted to landscaping, except where walks, parking lots
and service drives are required.
      2.   Materials:
         a.   Foundation planting shall consist of a combination of deciduous,
evergreen and ornamental trees, deciduous and evergreen shrubs. Ground layer,
except where planting exists shall consist of sod or ground cover.
         b.   All mechanical and electrical equipment, dumpsters loading areas
and bicycle racks shall be screened from public view with a solid evergreen
hedge or fence.
   G.   Design Criteria/Site Perimeter Landscaping: All plans submitted for
review shall include perimeter landscaping as follows:
      1.   Properties Abutting Residential Property:
         a.   All properties located adjacent to properties zoned for
residential use shall be screened from view with a continuous solid screen not
less than six feet (6') in height. The screen shall consist of earth berms, a
solid wood fence six feet (6') in height, or other barrier acceptable to the
Village.
         b.   Deciduous shade trees shall be planted the equivalent of one
hundred feet (100') on center. Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved
by the Village.
         c.   In addition to the barrier and shade trees, the Village may
require additional plant materials including deciduous, evergreen and flowering
trees, ornamental and evergreen shrubs.
         d.   Ground layer materials, unless occupied by plant materials, shall
be sodded or seeded.
      2.   Properties Abutting Nonresidential Property:
         a.   All properties abutting property zoned for nonresidential use
shall include the equivalent of one shade tree, one hundred feet (100') on
center. Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved by the Village.
         b.   In addition, the Village may require additional landscaping
consisting of earth berms, evergreen, deciduous and ornamental trees, deciduous
and evergreen shrubs.
         c.   All ground layer material, unless occupied by plant material,
shall be sodded or seeded.
   H.   Installation and Maintenance:
      1.   Installation:
         a.   Site preparation work shall not be undertaken until a certificate
of acceptance is issued for the landscape development plan.
         b.   All landscaping shall be installed in conformance with procedures
established by the American Association of Nurserymen.
         c.   Plant material shall be consistent with all requirements set
forth in the "American Standard for Nursery Stock" published by the American
Association of Nurserymen, latest edition.
         d.   Prior to construction, the owner shall submit a performance and
material and labor payment bond in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of
the estimated cost of landscape construction, in a form acceptable to the
Village. The bond shall also insure completion of the work, repair of all
damages caused by the owner, and replacement of all items not in conformance
with the approved landscape development plan.
         e.   Prior to issuance of any occupancy permit, the owner must submit
evidence of substantial completion of the landscape work. In the event of
delays caused by environmental conditions, the owner may present a performance
bond in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of
landscaping and irrigation, or a letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
Village for receipt of a temporary occupancy permit. The temporary permit will
be valid for a period of one hundred fifty (150) days.
      2.   Maintenance: The owner shall submit a detailed plan of maintenance
procedures to be used to protect and promote the growth of the approved
plantings and landscaping materials for a period of at least two (2) full
growing seasons after completion of all landscaping. The owner shall provide a
bond or letter of credit in a sum equal to ten percent (10%) of the estimated
cost of the landscape construction and plantings to guarantee that the plan of
maintenance is followed and that the plantings are alive and growing at the end
of the second growing season. The bond or letter of credit shall be in the same
form as is provided for the maintenance of accepted subdivision improvement
under the Subdivision Ordinance of the Village (see Title 9 of this Code). The
bond or letter of credit shall be submitted and approved before the Village
issues an occupancy permit for the building upon the premises being landscaped.
      3.   Replacement: The owner shall replace all dead material within the
next growing season. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
ARTICLE C. CB COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-7C-1: Purpose
8-7C-2: Classification Criteria
8-7C-3: Design Criteria
8-7C-4: Permitted Principal Uses
8-7C-5: Permitted Childcare Facility
8-7C-6: Permitted Freestanding Or Attached Accessory Structures
8-7C-7: Permitted Nonstructural Accessory Uses
8-7C-8: Special Uses
8-7C-9: Lot And Bulk Standards
8-7C-10: Temporary Signs
8-7C-11: Permanent Signs
8-7C-12: Traffic Directional Signs
8-7C-13: Exterior Lighting
8-7C-14: Off Street Parking
8-7C-15: Off Street Loading
8-7C-16: Design Review
8-7C-17: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
8-7C-18: Tree Survey And Preservation
8-7C-19: Landscape Development Plan
8-7C-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Use: The purpose of the CB community business district is to govern the
planning, location and development of certain properties within the zoning
jurisdiction of the village for office, retail businesses and service
establishments and related nonresidential uses which offer a wide range of
goods and services. Such uses and development shall be in harmony with the
character of the village.
   B.   Tax Base And Employment Opportunities: The CB district is provided to
enhance the property tax base of local taxing jurisdictions, and to provide
employment opportunities for the residents of the community. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-
22-1991)
8-7C-2: CLASSIFICATION CRITERIA:
For a parcel of land to qualify for consideration for classification as a CB
community business district, it must meet the following planning criteria:
   A.   Area: Any area which is zoned CB community business district should not
be less than ten (10) acres, excluding adjoining street rights of way. Such
sites may be subdivided in accord with the provisions of the subdivision
regulations of the village (see title 9 of this code). Whenever petition is
made to rezone an area to CB community business district, or to add an area to
a CB community business district, the owners thereof shall also petition for
the resubdivision of any parcels of land therein into the minimum areas and
frontages hereinafter required for a building site in the CB community business
district, to be entitled to have such rezoning petition considered.
   B.   Adjoining Uses: CB community business districts shall not be located in
predominantly residential areas of the village, but rather in transitional
areas where all boundaries of the district are adjoining to industrial or
commercial zoned areas established by zoning in the village or in its
comprehensive plan.
   C.   Utilities: All uses established in the CB community business district
must be served by sanitary sewer facilities. Individual private wells are not
permitted. Potable water shall be provided by a community water system. All
utilities shall be installed underground and shall provide for appropriate
safety measures or other controls, whether of a temporary or permanent nature,
as set forth by village, county, state or federal government agencies. Any
connection of underground utilities involving crossing a street shall be
accomplished only by augering and casing the carrier pipe. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-
1991)
8-7C-3: DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Site Development And Building Character: Site planning and development
in a CB community business district and buildings constructed in it shall be
compatible with the residential districts which are adjacent or nearby the
District. All construction and building plans shall be submitted for review and
approval by the Village, as hereinafter provided in Section
8-7C-16 of this Article, to assure such compatibility. Notwithstanding that a
development or building proposal may appear to meet the specific improvement or
use criteria set forth in this Article, the approval provided for in Section
8-7C-16 of this Article shall also require that the proposal preserve the
aesthetic values of the District and the area surrounding it, and not be
incompatible with the prevailing residential character of the Village. Common
brick, concrete block, split-face block, corrugated metal or preengineered
metals installed with exposed fasteners are prohibited on any building exterior
wall.
   B.   Landscaping: In addition to meeting the foregoing criteria for approval
of improvements, landscaping shall be required which conforms to those criteria
and which enhances the topographical and natural features of the site such as
water features, unique natural areas, wooded areas, tree masses, views and
vistas.
   C.   Signage: Signs, street graphics and related identity symbols shall
harmonize with the overall character of the parcel's development and shall
clearly be incidental to the total visual impact of the development.
   D.   Outside Storage: Any articles, goods or materials to be stored other
than in a building shall be properly screened from streets and adjacent lots by
landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or screening that is
compatible with building architecture.
   E.   Screening Of Equipment And Utilities: All equipment relating to the use
or operation of a building, whether adjacent to the building, attached to a
building wall or roof mounted, including electrical equipment or transformers,
heating, air-conditioning or ventilating equipment, telephone or communications
equipment, or storage tanks, shall be properly screened from streets and
adjacent lots by landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or
screening that is compatible with building architecture.
   F.   Multiple Buildings Or Structures: When multiple buildings or structures
are planned as part of a single ownership project, all buildings or structures
shall be of similar, compatible design and materials. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-1991)
8-7C-4: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
Permitted principal uses shall only be the following:
Advertising agency.
Agricultural implement sales, service, indoor.
Antique sales.
Appliance, sales, repair or service.
Art gallery, commercial.
Art supply store.
Bait shop.
Baker, retail.
Bank.
Barbershop.
Beauty shop.
Bicycle sales or repair.
Blueprinting and photostat shop.
Bookstore.
Bowling alley.
Business machine sales and repair.
Camera shop.
Catalog sales or mail-order store.
Catering service.
Childcare facility (see Section
8-7C-5 of this Article).
Cigar, cigarette, tobacco store.
Cleaning and dyeing, retail.
Clothes pressing and repair shop.
Clothing store.
Currency exchange.
Dairy products sales.
Department store.
Detective agency.
Dressmaker's shop.
Drugstore.
Dry goods store, retail.
Feed and grain sales.
Fish market, retail.
Floor covering sales.
Florist sales.
Food locker.
Fruit and vegetable market, retail.
Furnace, water heater sales and service.
Furniture repair and refinishing.
Furniture sales.
Garden center.
Gasoline service station.
Gift shop.
Greenhouse or nursery center.
Grocery store or supermarket.
Hardware store, retail.
Health club.
Health food store.
Hearing aid store.
Hobby shop.
Ice cream shop.
Interior decorators.
Jewelry store.
Laundry, retail.
Leather goods sales.
Liquor store.
Loan agency.
Locksmith.
Lodge for fraternal order.
Magazine and news store.
Meat market, retail.
Motion picture theater, enclosed.
Motorcycle sales and service.
Music, musical instrument sales and service.
Office District uses:
Business or professional school;
Conference center;
Financial institution;
Medical office;
Office, business, professional, institutional;
Office, governmental;
Real estate;
Research laboratories.
Office equipment sales and service.
Paint and wallpaper sales.
Pawnshop.
Pet store.
Photography studio.
Picture frame sales and service.
Plumbing supplies and fixture sales, retail.
Poultry egg sales, retail.
Printing and photocopying service.
Radio and TV sales or repair.
Real estate office.
Reducing salon.
Rental of equipment with indoor storage.
Restaurant, cafeteria.
Savings and loan association.
Shoe repair shop.
Skating rink, ice or roller.
Souvenir, curio shop.
Sporting goods store.
Tailor.
Tavern, nightclub.
Taxicab office.
Taxidermist.
Ticket office.
Toy store.
Travel agency.
Union hall.
Upholstery shop.
Veterinary clinic.
Watch, clock sales and repair.
Water softening equipment sales and service.
(Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-1991; amd. Ord. 99-20, 8-25-1999; Ord. 2025-O-04, 2-26-2025)
8-7C-5: PERMITTED CHILDCARE FACILITY:
   A.   Application for permission to construct or operate a childcare facility
shall be accompanied by copies of all valid permits issued and required by the
State of Illinois, Department of Child and Family Services, and any other
applicable County, State or Federal agency. If such permits cannot be obtained
prior to the time of application, the application shall be accompanied by a
report from the appropriate licensing agency, if any, stating the licensing
requirements and a statement as to how the applicant intends to meet these
requirements.
   B.   Applications for permission to construct or operate a childcare
facility shall be accompanied by a report and recommendation from the Lake
County Health Department.
   C.   There shall be a minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of safe
outdoor play area for every child for which the facility is licensed to
accommodate.
   D.   There shall be a minimum of thirty five (35) square feet of usable
indoor floor area for every child for which the facility is licensed to
accommodate. Usable floor area does not include administrative space, storage
areas, bathrooms, hallways, kitchen, or other areas that are not used for
direct activities.
   E.   All outdoor play areas shall be fenced.
   F.   No outdoor play apparatus or play field shall be located in any
required buffer yard or next to a pond, railroad tract, street or other hazard.
   G.   Nothing contained within this Article shall prohibit the establishment
or operation of a noncommercial child day care facility which has been licensed
by the State and is accessary and incidental to a principal use. As a
noncommercial accessory use, the day care facility shall accommodate only the
children of persons employed on the premises or shall accommodate children only
on an irregular basis solely for the convenience of the patrons of the
principal use. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7C-6: PERMITTED FREESTANDING OR ATTACHED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
The cumulative total floor area of all freestanding or attached accessory
structures shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the area of the principal
building for parking structures, and ten percent (10%) thereof for other
accessory structures. No such freestanding or attached accessory use shall be
established prior to the principal use. Permitted freestanding or attached
accessory structures shall only be the following:
   A.   Automobile parking structure.
   B.   Shelter for commuter rail passengers.
   C.   Security gatehouse.
   D.   Covered automobile entrance drop-off area.
   E.   Cover over financial office drive-up teller station(s).
   F.   Utility and communications equipment enclosing structure(s).
   G.   Fully enclosed shed not to exceed 225 square feet of floor area, 15
feet in height, and one per lot. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91; amd. Ord. 2025-O-04, 2-
26-2025)
8-7C-7: PERMITTED NONSTRUCTURAL ACCESSORY USES:
No such nonstructural accessary use shall be established prior to the principal
use and shall only be the following:
   A.   Surface parking and loading areas for vehicles.
   B.   Open swimming pool.
   C.   Open tennis courts.
   D.   Sidewalks, plazas, playground and similar pedestrian areas for either
passive or active recreation.
   E.   Ponds, storm water detention basins, fountains or other water features.
   F.   Landscaping.
   G.   Freestanding signs, street graphics, or identity symbols.
   H.   Outdoor lighting fixtures.
   I.   Fences.
   J.   Driveways and internal vehicular circulation. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7C-8: SPECIAL USES:
In order to accomplish the general purpose of this Article, certain unusual
uses need special consideration. They require special regulations to achieve
compatibility with development and zoning. Often the effects of these uses on
the surrounding environment cannot be foreseen until a specific site has been
proposed. They must be given special consideration and located relative to the
existing development pattern. They are not permitted automatically but are
subject to the issuance of a special use permit as provided in Section
8-10-1 of this Title and subject to the standards set forth herein and such
additional standards or conditions as may be established by the Village at the
time of approval of a special use permit.
   A.   Categories: Such special permit uses fall into two (2) categories:
      1.   Uses operated either by a public agency or publicly-related utility,
or uses traditionally effected with a public interest.
      2.   Uses entirely private in character but of such a nature that the
operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact upon
neighboring property or public facilities, and including the following:
Agricultural implement sales, service, outdoor.
Building materials sales yard
Contractor's equipment storage yard
Employee food service facility
Hotel or motel
Junk yard
Lumber, retail sales
Mobile home sales, service
Radio and television station and studio
Recreational vehicle sales and service
Truck sales, repair
Truck, trailer rental
Warehouse, self-storage or mini-warehouse.
   B.   Special Standards: In addition to the general provisions for special
uses as set forth in the first paragraph of this Section and all other
applicable standards of this Article, the following special standards shall be
met for the special uses listed below:
      1.   Agricultural implement sales, service, outdoor:
         a.   All work or service on agricultural implements shall be conducted
indoors.
         b.   All agricultural implements shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7C-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Agricultural implements stored outdoors shall
only be located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any
otherwise required parking area.
      2.   Building Material Sales Yard:
         a.   All materials stored outdoors shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum. , or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7C-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Materials stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   In no case shall the height of materials stored outdoors exceed
the height of the screening.
         c.   Building materials stored outdoors shall not include any salvage
materials, scrap metal, rags, paper, vehicle parts, or any type of refuse.
         d.   Building materials shall not be stored in any parked vehicle or
trailer except for the time in which they are being loaded and unloaded, which
shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
      3.   Contractor's Equipment Storage Yard:
         a.   All contractor's equipment stored outdoors shall be screened at a
minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8')
high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7C-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Equipment stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   In no case shall the height of the contractor's equipment stored
outdoors exceed the height of the screening.
         c.   All repair or servicing of any equipment shall be conducted
indoors.
      4.   Employee Food Service Facility:
         a.   All such facilities shall be considered an accessory use to any
otherwise permitted use.
         b.   Such facilities shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the floor
area of the principal use.
         c.   Such facilities shall be for the exclusive use of the owners,
employees, tenants or guests of the principal use.
         d.   No sign visible to the general public shall indicate the
existence of the employee food service facility nor shall its existence be
advertised to the general public.
         e.   In no case shall the use of the employee food service facility
predate the substantial installation and operation of the principal use. The
use of the employee food service facility shall cease immediately upon
termination of the principal use.
         f.   No service of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted.
      5.   Hotel or Motel:
         a.   The minimum lot area for any hotel or motel is two (2) acres.
         b.   Ingress and egress to and from all rooms shall be through an
inside lobby supervised at all times through a common entrance.
         c.   Accessory uses to any hotel or motel shall be limited to those
uses customarily and historically associated with them for the accommodation of
the guests, including meeting rooms, restaurant and outdoor recreation
facilities.
         d.   All outdoor recreation facilities shall be securely fenced and
for the exclusive use of the guests.
      6.   Lumber, Retail Sales:
         a.   All lumber, wood products and related building materials and
supplies offered for sale shall be stored indoors and no outdoor storage of any
type shall be permitted.
         b.   All buildings and structures shall be fully enclosed.
         c.   In no case shall the height of the machinery stored outdoors
exceed the height of the screening.
         d.   All repair or servicing of any machinery shall be done indoors.
      7.   Mobile Home Sales, Service:
         a.   Mobile homes in storage or parked for service shall be screened
at a minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet
(8') high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10')
high minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7C-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Mobile homes stored or parked
for service outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and
separated from any otherwise required parking area.
         b.   All service and work on mobile homes shall be conducted indoors.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any mobile home
shall be allowed in the CB District.
      8.   Radio and Television Studio:
         a.   No tower or antenna shall be visible from the nearest residential
zoning district.
         b.   The operation of any transmitter, antenna or other equipment
shall not cause interference with any other form of radio or television device
within the Village.
      9.   Recreational Vehicle Sales and Service:
         a.   Recreational vehicles in storage or parked for service shall be
screened at a minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing
eight feet (8') high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten
feet (10') high minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7C-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Recreational vehicles stored
or parked for service outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure
area and separated from any otherwise required parking area. The only locations
of recreational vehicles on display for sale shall be as approved in the
Special Use Permit plans.
         b.   All service or work on recreational vehicles shall be done
indoors.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any recreational
vehicle shall be allowed in the CB District.
      10.   Truck Sales, Repair:
         a.   Trucks and trailers in storage or parked for service shall be
screened at a minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing
eight feet (8') high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten
feet (10') high minimum. , or combination thereof per a Section
8-7C-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Trucks and trailers stored or
parked for service outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure
area and separated from any otherwise required parking area. The only locations
of trucks and trailers on display for sale shall be as approved in the Special
Use Permit plans.
         b.   All service or work on trucks and trailers shall be done indoors.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any truck shall
be allowed in the CB District.
      11.   Truck, Trailer Rental:
         a.   All trucks and trailers offered for rent shall be screened at a
minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8')
high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7C-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Trucks and trailers stored or
parked outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and
separated from any otherwise required parking area.
         b.   No servicing or repair of trucks or trailers shall be permitted
on the property.
         c.   No truck or trailer shall be used for storage except for the time
in which they are being loaded and unloaded for transportation of goods onto or
off the site, which shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
         d.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any truck shall
be allowed in the CB District.
      12.   Warehouse, Self-Storage or Mini-Warehouse:
         a.   This use shall be defined as a single building or group of
buildings in a controlled access and fenced compound that contains varying
sizes of individual compartmentalized stalls or lockers for the dead storage of
customers' goods or wares.
         b.   A site for such a use shall not exceed three (3) acres.
         c.   The building height shall not exceed twenty five feet (25') or
two (2) stories.
         d.   Vehicular ingress and egress shall be limited to one access point
on the site's principal street frontage.
         e.   There shall be a minimum of thirty five feet (35') between
warehouse buildings for driveways, parking and fire lane purposes. Where no
parking is provided within the building separation areas, the building
separation may be twenty five feet (25').
         f.   The facilities shall be used for dead storage only, and no
radioactive, explosive or biohazardous material may be stored on the premises.
         g.   No auctions, commercial sales, garage sales or the like shall be
conducted on the premises.
         h.   The servicing or repairing of motor vehicles, boats, trailers,
lawn mowers or other similar equipment shall not be conducted on the premises.
         i.   A resident manager shall be required on the site and shall be
responsible for maintaining the operation in conformance with the requirements
of this Article.
      13.   Junk Yard:
         a.   Any junk yard, scrap yard or salvage yard for which permission is
granted under this Section shall at all times be subject to the performance
standards established in Section
8-7B-18-2 of this Chapter.
         b.   All outdoor storage areas shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7C-16: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Outdoor storage shall only be located in this
screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise required parking area.
Storage above the height of such fence is expressly prohibited.
         c.   Any junk or salvage yard which offers to the public at retail any
new or used merchandise shall provide at least two (2) parking spaces per one
hundred (100) square feet of retail floor space.
         d.   The site shall contain at least two hundred thousand (200,000)
square feet of area.
         e.   All gasoline, motor oils, brake and transmission fluids,
antifreeze, hydraulic fluids, battery acid, freon or other liquid fluorinated
hydrocarbons, and other fluids shall be removed immediately from all salvaged
vehicles, appliances, or other goods. Such fluids shall be stored and disposed
of in such a manner to prevent soil, air, water and environmental contamination
of the subject site and prevent contamination of surrounding properties and
waterways. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91; amd. Ord. 2025-O-04, 2-26-2025)
8-7C-9: LOT AND BULK STANDARDS:
   A.   Lot Area: Every lot or parcel shall have a minimum area of twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet. Any nonconforming lot or parcel shall not be
entitled to be used as a principal building site, but may be used in
conjunction with an adjacent conforming lot or parcel for accessory uses.
   B.   Lot Frontage: Every lot or parcel shall have a minimum street frontage
of one hundred feet (100') measured at the front lot line. Any nonconforming
lot or parcel shall not be entitled to be used as a principal building site,
but may be used in conjunction with an adjacent conforming lot or parcel for
accessory uses.
   C.   Building Coverage: Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the area of a
lot may be covered by all buildings and structures.
   D.   Floor Area: The total floor area of all buildings and structures on a
lot shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the area of the lot.
   E.   Building Setbacks: The required minimum setbacks from the property line
of a lot are set forth below:
      1.   Front yard: 30 feet.
      2.   Side yard: 15 feet. Side yards are not required in this Zone if the
proposed construction meets fire codes and if the lot line is not a zoning
boundary line or a street; provided, that there is acceptable access to the
rear of the property. Nothing herein shall permit the creation of a fractional
part of the required minimum side yard.
      3.   Side yard adjoining a street: 30 feet.
      4.   Rear yard: 20 feet.
      5.   Additional Setback: There shall be two feet (2') additional setback
required for each one foot (1') of building height over twenty five feet (25').
   F.   Building Height: No principal building or structure shall exceed sixty
five feet (65') or five (5) stories in height including fully enclosed rooftop
mechanical equipment pent- houses.
   G.   Storage of Garbage and Trash: All garbage cans, trash containers and
other storage devices situated on any lot shall be properly screened from
streets and adjacent lots by landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping
materials or screening that is compatible with building architecture. All
garbage cans, trash containers and other garbage storage devices shall be
rodentproof and shall be emptied and the contents thereof properly disposed of
not less than once every seven (7) days. There shall be no trash burning or
incineration devices or facilities. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7C-10: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
Temporary signs shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in height Temporary signs
shall be limited to the following:
   A.   Realtor Signs: During the course of construction, temporary real estate
and realtor signs may be erected which advertise the sale, rental or lease of
the premises upon which signs are located; provided, however, that no more than
one double-faced unilluminated sign shall be permitted on any lot or parcel.
Such signs shall be removed within thirty (30) days after such sale or lease of
the premises or within thirty (30) days of reaching ninety five percent (95%)
initial occupancy. No such sign shall exceed thirty two (32) square feet per
face.
   B.   Construction Signs: Unilluminated construction signs denoting the
architect, engineer, contractor and related consultants may be erected during
construction. There shall be only one such sign per building, and it shall not
exceed sixteen (16) square fee in area. The sign shall be on or within twenty
feet (20') of the building. Such signs shall be removed upon completion of the
building. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7C-11: PERMANENT SIGNS:
Permanent signs shall be "on-premises only" subject to the types and controls
listed as follows:
   A.   Wall Signs: Wall signs shall only be permitted on building walls facing
a street, road or highway. There shall be no more than one wall sign per street
frontage. The size of wall signs shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet in
area.
   B.   Address Sign: Each building shall have a sign containing its address
and shall not exceed six (6) square feet in area.
   C.   Freestanding Signs: In addition to the wall sign, there may be no more
than one freestanding multi-faced sign per building. No freestanding sign face
shall exceed thirty (30) square feet in area, and the height shall not exceed
six feet (6') above the grade of the nearest adjoining street or driveway. No
freestanding sign shall be located closer than fifteen feet (15') from any lot
line.
   D.   Identity Symbols: Each CB Community Business District subdivision may
have a single identity symbol, architectural feature, or entrance feature. Such
symbols or features shall not have a total surface area in excess of two
hundred eighty four feet (284') or a height greater than eighteen feet (18')
above average lot grade.
   E.   Illumination: All permanent signs may be back lighted, illuminated by
spotlights shielded to eliminate glare on adjoining roads or property, or have
letters, but not backgrounds, that are lighted by internal sources. No flashing
or blinking signs are permitted. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7C-12: TRAFFIC DIRECTIONAL SIGNS:
Traffic directional signs shall be required to indicate and control the flow of
traffic and ingress and egress routes on each lot or parcel. All such signs
shall be of a size and type and otherwise meet all the uniform standards for
traffic- control signs of the Illinois Department of Transportation. (Ord. 91-
04A, 5-22-91)
8-7C-13: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
All parking lots, internal driveways, and walkways shall be illuminated in
accord with the following standards:
   A.   Luminaries: All exterior lighting luminaries shall be baffled so that
glare is minimized. All luminaries shall be designed so that the cut-off line
of light is at least ten feet (10') within the property line. The maximum
permitted height of luminaries shall be thirty feet (30').
   B.   Illumination: The maximum permitted level of illumination is three
(3.0) foot-candles. Illumination shall be measured in foot-candies at six
inches (6") above ground level in a horizontal position at the point ten feet
(10') inside the property line. A direct reading portable light meter with
color and cosine corrected sensor with multiple scales shall be used. The meter
shall have been tested and calibrated to an accuracy of plus or minus five
percent (±5%) within one year of its use. Measurements shall be made after
dark. The difference between lights-on measurements and lights-off measurements
shall be used to determine the illumination level and to eliminate the effects
of ambient light. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7C-14: OFF-STREET PARKING:
No on-street parking shall be permitted in any CB Community Business District.
All uses in the District shall be provided with off-street parking designed to
provide for one hundred percent (100%) of the required parking for the proposed
use at peak occupancy.
   A.   Calculation of Number of Spaces: In determining the total parking
required, any fraction shall be counted as one parking space.
   B.   Size: Each parking space shall be at least nine feet by eighteen feet
(9' x 18') in size and shall be a definitely designated stall adequate for one
motor vehicle. Two percent (2%) of all required parking spaces shall be
designated for handicapped parking and shall be twelve feet by eighteen feet
(12' x 18') in size and located as close as possible to the entrance(s) of the
building or use for which the parking is intended. Adequate access aisles to
each stall and to the street shall be provided.
   C.   Multiple Uses: If multiple uses on a lot vary in their parking
requirements, the number of parking spaces shall be the sum of the individual
requirements for each use. However, where peak parking requirements occur at
distinctly different times of the day or week, the total number of spaces may
be reduced. In no case shall the total number of spaces be less than the hourly
peak concentration of the combined uses on the site.
   D.   Surface: All parking facilities, access driveways and aisles, and other
internal vehicular circulation shall be paved.
   E.   Number of Spaces: The following are the minimum of off- street parking
spaces required to be built or reserved for each use within the CB Community
Business District:
                                          1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Agricultural implement sales, service    spaces for every 3 employees,
                                          whichever is greater
All retail stores (unless listed below)  1 space per 300 square feet
Blueprinting or photostat shop           1 space per 300 square feet
                                          5 spaces per lane, plus 1 space per
                                          employee on the largest work shift,
Bowling alley                            plus 50 percent of the spaces
                                          otherwise required for accessory uses
                                          (e.g., tavern, restaurant)
Building material sales yard             1 space per 300 square feet
Catering service                         1 space per 300 square feet
                                          1 space per teacher and employee on
Child care facility                      the largest shift, plus 1 space per 6
                                          students or off-street waiting spaces
                                          to accommodate at least 6 automobiles
                                          1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Contractor's equipment storage, indoor   spaces for every 3 employees,
                                          whichever is greater
                                          1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Contractor's equipment storage yard      spaces for every 3 employees,
                                          whichever is greater
                                          1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Food locker                              spaces for every 3 employees,
                                          whichever is greater
Furniture repair or refinishing          1 space per 300 square feet
shop
Health club or fitness center            1 space per 250 square feet
Hotel or motel                           1 space per suite plus spaces as
                                          otherwise required for accessory uses
                                          1 space per 100 square feet of retail
Junk yard                                floor space plus 2 spaces for every 3
                                          employees
Lodge for fraternal order                1 space per 3 persons to the maximum
                                          capacity of the facility
Lumber, retail sales                     1 space per 300 square feet
                                          1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Mobile home sales, service               spaces for every 3 employees,
                                          whichever is greater
Motion picture theater, enclosed         1 space per 3 patrons based on
                                          maximum capacity
Office District uses:                     
 Business or professional school        1 space per 1,000 square feet plus 1
                                          space per 2 students
 Conference center                      1 space per 1,000 square feet plus 1
                                          space per 2 patrons
 Financial institution drive-up teller  1 space per 250 square feet, plus 6
                                          stacking spaces per
 Medical office                         1 space per 200 square feet
 Office; business, professional         1 space per 300 square feet
  institutional
 Office, governmental                   1 space per 250 square feet
 Real estate office                     1 space per 250 square feet
 Research laboratories                  1 space per 300 square feet
                                          1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Recreational vehicle sales and service   spaces for every 3 employees,
                                          whichever is greater
Restaurant, cafeteria                    1 space per 50 square feet
Skating rink, ice or roller              1 space per 300 square feet
Tavern, night club                       1 space per 50 square feet
                                          1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Truck sales, repair                      spaces for every 3 employees,
                                          whichever is greater
                                          1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Truck, trailer rental                    spaces for every 3 employees,
                                          whichever is greater
Union hall                               1 space per 3 persons to the maximum
                                          capacity of the facility
                                          1 space for each 10 storage cubicles,
                                          equally distributed throughout the
Warehouse, self-storage or mini-          storage area, plus 2 spaces for
warehouse                                manager's quarters, plus 1 space for
                                          every 25 storage cubicles to be
                                          located at the project office for the
                                          use of prospective clients
 
   F.   Future Parking Reserve: At the option of the builder of any building
and subject to the approval of the Plan Commission during the design review
process, a maximum of twenty five percent (25%) of the total required parking
spaces may be designated as a future parking reserve subject to the following
standards:
      1.   The designated spaces shall be those located the farthest away from
the building.
      2.   The designated spaces shall be landscaped in a manner compatible
with the balance of the landscaping on the site.
      3.   The designated spaces shall not be a part of nor encroach upon any
otherwise required buffer yard or foundation yard or parking lot landscape
area.
      4.   In the sole discretion of the Village, if at any time there appears
to be a parking deficiency, no further occupancy permits shall be issued until
such time that the future parking spaces held in reserve are improved to
correct the deficiency.
      5.   Until such time as the building is ninety five percent (95%)
occupied, the builder shall guarantee that the designated future parking
reserve will be improved if required to meet the parking demand for the
building. Such guarantee shall be in the form of an irrevocable letter of
credit in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost
of constructing the spaces held in reserve, or such other form of guarantee
acceptable and approved by the Village. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7C-15: OFF-STREET LOADING:
All uses involving the receipt or distribution of goods by vehicle shall have
space on the premises for the pickup, delivery and service vehicles necessary
for normal daily operation. These spaces shall be in addition to the off-street
spaces required. Off-street loading facilities shall be provided in accord with
the following standards:
   A.   Number of Spaces: One space per building containing five thousand
(5,000) square feet to fifty thousand (50,000) square feet plus one additional
space for each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet or
fraction thereof.
   B.   Size: The minimum size of all required loading spaces shall be twelve
feet wide by forty feet in length (12' x 40') and shall have a vertical
clearance of fifteen feet (15').
   C.   Location: All required loading spaces shall meet the building setback
requirements. Loading spaces facing any street shall be interior.
   D.   Screening: All exterior loading spaces on the side or rear of any
building shall be screened from adjoining properties and the street by
landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or screening that is
compatible with building architecture. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7C-16: DESIGN REVIEW:
No building, improvement or structure shall be erected in the District that is
not in compliance with design criteria set forth in Section
8-7C-3 hereof. No permit shall be issued for any building, improvement or
structure unless it has first been approved as complying with said design
criteria by the Plan Commission of the Village and by the Village Board as
herein provided. In the event that the Plan Commission rejects or fails to
approve any plans submitted for design review within forty five (45) days after
submission, the person submitting such plans may appeal from said rejection or
failure to approve in the same manner as herein provided for appeals from the
decisions of officers of the Village to the Board of Appeals of the Village, as
provided in Section
8-11-5 of this Title. If the Plan Commission rejects any plan, it shall state
the reason for rejection in writing.
   A.   Procedure: Prior to obtaining a building permit for any new
construction in the CB Community Business District, three (3) sets of
preliminary design plans shall be submitted to the Building Department along
with the preliminary plan review fee. As otherwise required, building permits
for all interior modifications or interior tenant improvements and occupancy
permits for all changes in tenancy shall not be subject to the design review by
the Plan Commission unless either of these changes increases the number of
parking spaces required under this Article.
   B.   Building Department Review: The Building Commissioner shall review the
submitted preliminary design to determine if they are complete and meet the
basic zoning, building and site development standards of the Village.
   C.   Plan Commission Review: Thereafter, the plans shall be submitted to the
Village Plan Commission for design review and comment. The Plan Commission
shall determine if the proposed site development, landscaping, building design
and signs satisfy the design criteria standards of this Article. The plan shall
then be submitted to the Village Board at a regular meeting for final approval.
Upon approval of the preliminary design plans, one set of approved plans shall
be to the applicant, one set shall be placed on file with the Building
Department, and one set shall be placed on file with the Plan Commission.
   D.   Building Permits: No building permit shall be issued that is not in
compliance with the approved preliminary design plans.
   E.   Required Preliminary Design Plan Documents:
      1.   Location Map: A dimensioned location map at a scale of one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger showing the relationship of the
subject site to adjoining properties, land uses, structures, streets and
natural features within one thousand feet (1,000') of the subject site. A
current plan review aerial photograph to a scale of one inch equals four
hundred feet (1" = 400') may be substituted in lieu of a map drawing.
      2.   Site Plan: A dimensioned site plan shall be prepared at a scale of
one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20') or larger, showing the following:
         a.   Surveyed property lines and easements.
         b.   Building setback lines and buffer yard lines.
         c.   All proposed buildings and structures.
         d.   All proposed nonstructural accessory uses.
         e.   Existing topography and proposed topography at one foot (1')
intervals at USGS datum.
         f.   Proposed finish floor and roof elevations at USGS datum.
         g.   Proposed landscaping plan in accordance with Sections
8-7-5-16 and
8-7-5-17 of this Title.
         h.   Proposed garbage and trash storage facilities.
         i.   Proposed exterior lighting type and location of luminaries and
illumination level contours at one foot-candle intervals.
         j.   At the applicant's option, any other site plan design information
which the applicant feels may explain the site design concept.
      3.   Building Plans: Dimensioned preliminary building plans for all
buildings and structures shown on the site plan at a scale of one inch equals
eight feet (1" = 8') or larger showing the following:
         a.   Floor, pent-house and roof plans.
         b.   Elevations indicating materials, colors and textures.
         c.   Cross sections.
         d.   Proposed garbage and trash storage facilities.
         e.   At the applicant's option, any other drawings, material samples,
or other information which the applicant feels may explain the building design
concept.
      4.   Sign Plans: A dimensioned drawing of all proposed temporary and
permanent signs at a scale of one inch equals one foot (1" = 1') or larger
indicating the following:
         a.   Sign materials, construction and supporting structure. Structural
calculations shall also be required for all freestanding signs of one hundred
(100) square feet or larger surface area.
         b.   Lettering and graphic information contents.
         c.   Colors and textures.
         d.   Method of illumination.
         e.   At the applicant's option, any other information, material
samples or drawings which the applicant feels may explain the sign design
concept. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
8-7C-17: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
Before any building or other structure, or part thereof, shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, moved or structurally altered, a building
permit shall be obtained. Before the use of any building, structure or land is
changed, including any change in tenancy, an occupancy permit shall be
obtained. Any use or occupancy, which was not discontinued during any
alteration work, shall be discontinued within thirty (30) days after the
completion of the alteration if a new occupancy permit is not issued. (Ord. 91-
04A, 5-22-91)
8-7C-18: TREE SURVEY AND PRESERVATION:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this Section to govern the
removal of trees and other significant vegetation and insure the replacement of
trees in public and private properties within the Village.
   B.   Tree Survey: A tree survey plan indicating the location, size, genus
and species of all trees within the subject property shall be submitted to the
Village. The plan shall indicate all trees designated for preservation. Site
plan review shall not commence until the tree survey is submitted to the
village. The tree survey shall include the following:
      1.   Topographic Survey: Existing and proposed contour elevations (1 foot
intervals) to determine long range adverse effects on plant materials
designated for preservation.
      2.   Implementation Techniques: The method used to ensure preservation of
retained vegetation shall be outlined in a written statement indicating care to
be taken during and after construction; including proximity of grading
operations to tree drip lines, installation of protective fencing and storage
of machinery and supplies.
   C.   Tree Removal Permit: All trees designated for removal having a trunk
diameter four inches (4") and greater measured six inches (6") above grade
shall require a tree removal permit. The permit shall be obtained from the
village prior to site plan approval. The permit application shall include a
statement giving the reasons for removal. The village shall approve the permit
application if one or more of the following conditions is present:
      1.   The tree(s) is dead, diseased or in a weakened state.
      2.   The tree(s) poses a safety hazard to existing or proposed buildings,
pedestrians and vehicles.
      3.   The tree(s) does not conform to recognized principles of good
horticultural practice.
      4.   The tree(s) is located in areas designated for a proposed building
(s), circulation or parking activities.
   D.   Trees Designated For Preservation: In the event trees designated for
preservation have been destroyed or removed as the result of construction
damage, negligence or other operations within the five (5) years following
construction completion, such trees shall be replaced in accordance with the
following schedule:
Diameter Of            Number Of   Replacement
Existing Tree          Replacement Caliper (6 Inches
(6 Inches Above Grade) Trees       Above Grade)
Diameter Of            Number Of   Replacement
Existing Tree          Replacement Caliper (6 Inches
(6 Inches Above Grade) Trees       Above Grade)
                                 
4" –6"               6           4"
7" –12"              7           4"
13" 18"              8           4"
19" 24"              9           4"
25" 30"              10          4"
31" 36"              11          4"
36" +                  12          4"
 
   E.   Species Of Trees: Replacement trees shall be limited to the following
species:
Acer      (Maple excluding silver maple)
Carya     (Hickory)
Celtis    (Hackberry)
Fraxinus  (Ash)
Ginkgo    (Ginkgo)
Gleditsia (Honeylocust)
Ostrya    (Hophornbeam)
Quercus   (Oak)
Tilia     (Linden)
Other species approved by the village
 
   F.   Amended Landscape Plan: An amended landscape development plan shall be
submitted for approval by the village. The plan shall indicate the location,
size, genus and species of all replacement trees. (Ord. 91-O-04A, 5-22-1991)
8-7C-19: LANDSCAPE DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this section to govern the
landscape improvement of all proposed development to enhance, protect and
preserve the appearance, character, health, safety and welfare of the village.
   B.   Plan Requirement: A landscape development plan shall be submitted to
the village for all improvements requiring site and/or building review. The
plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include the location of all existing and
proposed structures, property lines, signs, walks, drives, loading areas,
dumpsters, lighting, parking areas, fences, walls, elevation changes, bicycle
parking facilities, freestanding electrical and mechanical equipment, water
features, landscape irrigation, plant material and other freestanding features.
   C.   Design Criteria/Right of Way: Landscaping shall be provided within the
right of way where a property abuts a dedicated public street as follows:
      1.   Ground Layer: All unpaved areas within public rights of way shall be
graded and sodded.
      2.   Parkway Trees:
         a.   Quantity: Parkway trees shall be planted at a spacing equivalent
to eighty feet (80') on center. Clustering or staggering of trees may be
acceptable if approved by the Village.
         b.   Size: Parkway trees shall be planted at a minimum trunk size of
three inches (3") caliper as measured six inches (6") above grade.
         c.   Species: Parkway trees shall be limited to the following species,
unless otherwise approved by the Village:
Acer      (Maple excluding Silver Maple)
Carya     (Hickory)
Celtis    (Hackberry)
Fraxinus  (Ash)
Ginko     (Ginko)
Gleditsia (Honeylocust)
Ostrya    (Hophornbeam)
Quercus   (Oak)
Tilia     (Linden)
Other species approved by the Village
 
   D.   Design Criteria/Parking Lot Interior Landscaping: All parking lots
designed for twenty (20) or more spaces shall contain the following:
      1.   Quantity: Not less than three percent (3%) of the interior of all
parking areas shall be devoted to live landscaping enclosed by approved
curbing.
         a.   The area devoted to landscaping shall be dispersed throughout the
lot.
         b.   One shade tree shall be required for every one hundred fifty
(150) square feet of landscaped area. In the event of a fraction of a tree, if
a fraction is less than one-half (1/2) tree, the lower full number shall be
used. If a fraction is one-half (1/2) tree or greater, the higher number shall
be used.
      2.   Size: Interior landscape areas shall be a minimum of one hundred
sixty (160) square feet. Areas shall have not less than eight feet (8') in
width measured from back-of-curb to back-of-curb.
      3.   Cover: Not less than fifty percent (50%) of all interior planting
areas shall consist of live landscaping.
   E.   Design Criteria/Parking Lot Perimeter Landscaping:
      1.   Front Yards: At the lot line, every lot shall have a minimum of a
thirty foot (30') front landscaped yard. In addition, it shall be the
responsibility of the owner of any lot seeking a building permit to landscape
the right of way of any street from the curb of said street to the front lot
line. There shall be no parking or parking drives permitted in the front yards.
Access drives may cross the front yard where required. All curbs cuts shall be
designed so as to create a means of ingress and egress for each lot consistent
with efficient traffic patterns and to not unnecessarily hinder traffic flow to
and from other lots. Curb cuts shall be limited to one for each eighty feet
(80') of street frontage. A minimum distance of one hundred feet (100') on
center is required between all access drives on a lot.
      2.   Corner Yards:
         a.   All parking lots located across a dedicated right of way from
property zoned for residential use shall be screened from adjacent properties
by a continuous shrub buffer, not less than three feet (3') in height. Such
landscaping shall include earth berms where feasible, shade, ornamental and
evergreen trees.
         b.   All parking lots located across a dedicated right of way from
properties zoned for nonresidential use shall be landscaped with a shrub buffer
covering not less than twenty five percent (25%) of the street frontage at a
height of not less than three feet (3'). Such landscaping shall include earth
berms where feasible, shade, ornamental and evergreen trees.
         c.   Except where landscaped beds or plant materials are present, all
front and corner yards shall be sodded or seeded.
      3.   Rear and Side Yards:
         a.   All parking lots located adjacent to properties zoned for
residential use shall be buffered by a solid landscape screen at a minimum
height of six feet (6'). The screen shall consist of evergreen or deciduous
shrubs, or a combination of both as approved by the Village. Such screen shall
include earth berms, deciduous, evergreen or ornamental trees where feasible. A
six foot (6') solid wood fence may be substituted for plant material if
approved by the Village. Shade trees shall be planted the equivalent of eighty
feet (80') on center at a caliper of not less than three inches (3"), measured
six inches (6") above grade. Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved by
the Village.
         b.   All parking lots abutting properties zoned for nonresidential use
shall be buffered from adjacent properties by plant material covering not less
than twenty five percent (25%) of the frontage at a minimum height of three
feet (3'). Such screen shall also include earth berms where feasible,
deciduous, evergreen and ornamental trees. Shade trees shall be planted the
equivalent of eighty feet (80') on center along the buffer, at a caliper of not
less than three inches (3"), measured six inches (6") above grade. Trees may be
clustered or staggered if approved by the Village.
         c.   Except where landscaped beds or plant materials are present, all
side and rear yards shall be sodded or seeded.
         d.   All parking lots shall be located a minimum of five feet (5')
from all side and rear yards.
   F.   Design Criteria/Building Foundation Planting:
      1.   Size: A minimum setback of twelve feet (12') in width adjacent to
the building shall be devoted to landscaping, except where walks, parking lots
and service drives are required.
      2.   Materials:
         a.   Foundation planting shall consist of a combination of deciduous,
evergreen and ornamental trees, deciduous and evergreen shrubs. Ground layer,
except where planting exist, shall consist of sod or ground cover.
         b.   All mechanical and electrical equipment, dumpsters, loading areas
and bicycle racks shall be screened from public view with a solid evergreen
hedge or fence.
   G.   Design Criteria/Site Perimeter Landscaping: All plans submitted for
review shall include perimeter landscaping as follows:
      1.   Properties Abutting Residential Property:
         a.   All properties located adjacent to properties zoned for
residential use shall be screened from view with a continuous solid screen not
less than six feet (6') in height. The screen shall consist of earth berms, a
solid wood fence six feet (6') in height or other barrier acceptable to the
Village.
         b.   Deciduous shade trees shall be planted the equivalent of one
hundred feet (100') on center. Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved
by the Village.
         c.   In addition to the barrier and shade trees, the Village may
require additional plant materials including deciduous, evergreen and flowering
trees, ornamental and evergreen shrubs.
         d.   Ground layer materials, unless occupied by plant materials, shall
be sodded or seeded.
      2.   Properties Abutting Nonresidential Property:
         a.   All properties abutting property zoned for nonresidential use
shall include the equivalent of one shade tree, one hundred feet (100') on
center. Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved by the Village.
         b.   In addition, the Village may require additional landscaping
consisting of earth berms, evergreen, deciduous and ornamental trees, deciduous
and evergreen shrubs.
         c.   All ground layer material, unless occupied by plant material,
shall be sodded or seeded.
   H.   Installation and Maintenance:
      1.   Installation:
         a.   Site preparation work shall not be undertaken until a certificate
of acceptance is issued for the landscape development plan.
         b.   All landscaping shall be installed in conformance with procedures
established by the American Association of Nurserymen.
         c.   Plant material shall be consistent with all requirements set
forth in the "American Standard for Nursery Stock" published by the American
Association of Nurserymen, latest edition.
         d.   Prior to construction, the owner shall submit a performance and
material and labor payment bond in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of
the estimated cost of landscape construction, in a form acceptable to the
Village. The bond shall also insure completion of the work, repair of all
damages caused by the owner, and replacement of all items not in conformance
with the approved landscape development plan.
         e.   Prior to issuance of any occupancy permit, the owner must submit
evidence of substantial completion of the landscape work. In the event of
delays caused by environmental conditions, the owner may present a performance
bond in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of
landscaping and irrigation, or a letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
Village for receipt of a temporary occupancy permit. The temporary permit will
be valid for a period of one hundred fifty (150) days.
      2.   Maintenance: The owner shall submit a detailed plan of maintenance
procedures to be used to protect and promote the growth of the approved
plantings and landscaping materials for a period of at least two (2) full
growing seasons after completion of all landscaping. The owner shall provide a
bond or letter of credit in a sum equal to ten percent (10%) of the estimated
cost of the landscape construction and plantings to guarantee that the plan of
maintenance is followed and that the plantings are alive and growing at the end
of the second growing season. The bond or letter of credit shall be in the same
form as is provided for the maintenance of accepted subdivision improvement
under the Subdivision Ordinance of the Village (see Title 9 of this Code) 1 .
The bond or letter of credit shall be submitted and approved before the Village
issues an occupancy permit for the building upon the premises being landscaped.
      3.   Replacement: The owner shall replace all dead material within the
next growing season. (Ord. 91-04A, 5-22-91)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  9-4-4 of this Code.
ARTICLE D. GB GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-7D-1: Purpose
8-7D-2: Classification Criteria
8-7D-3: Design Criteria
8-7D-4: Permitted Principal Uses
8-7D-4-1: Standards For Certain Permitted Uses
8-7D-5: Permitted Childcare Facility
8-7D-6: Permitted Freestanding Or Attached Accessory Structures
8-7D-7: Permitted Nonstructural Accessory Uses
8-7D-8: Special Uses
8-7D-9: Lot And Bulk Standards
8-7D-10: Signs
8-7D-11: Traffic Directional Signs
8-7D-12: Exterior Lighting
8-7D-13: Off Street Parking
8-7D-14: Off Street Loading
8-7D-15: Design Review
8-7D-16: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
8-7D-17: Tree Survey And Preservation
8-7D-18: Landscape Development Plan
8-7D-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Use: The purpose of the GB general business district is to govern the
planning, location and development of certain properties within the zoning
jurisdiction of the village for office, retail businesses and service
establishments and related nonresidential uses which offer a wide range of
goods and services. Such uses and development shall be in harmony with the
character of the village.
   B.   Tax Base And Employment Opportunities: The GB general business district
is provided to enhance the property tax base of local taxing jurisdictions, and
to provide employment opportunities for the residents of the community. (Ord.
96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7D-2: CLASSIFICATION CRITERIA:
For a parcel of land to qualify for consideration for classification as a GB
general business district, it must meet the following planning criteria:
   A.   Area: Any area which is zoned GB general business district should not
be less than three (3) acres, excluding adjoining street rights of way. Such
sites may be subdivided in accord with the provisions of the subdivision
regulations of the village 1 . Whenever petition is made to rezone an area to
GB general business district, or to add an area to a GB general business
district, the owners thereof shall also petition for the resubdivision of any
parcels of land therein into not less than the minimum areas and frontages
hereinafter required for a building site in the GB general business district,
to be entitled to have such rezoning petition considered.
   B.   Adjoining Uses: GB general business districts shall not be located in
predominantly residential areas of the village, but rather in transitional
areas where one or more boundaries of the district are adjoining to industrial
or commercial zoned areas established by zoning in the village or in its
comprehensive plan.
   C.   Utilities: All uses established in the GB general business district
must be served by sanitary sewer facilities. Individual private wells are not
permitted. Potable water shall be provided by a community water system. All
utilities shall be installed underground and shall provide for appropriate
safety measures or other controls, whether of a temporary or permanent nature,
as set forth by village, county, state or federal government agencies. Any
connection of underground utilities involving crossing a street shall be
accomplished only by augering and casing the carrier pipe.
   D.   Location: The GB general business district shall only be located in
that territory of the village which lies east of the I-94 toll road. (Ord. 96-
18, 8-28-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
8-7D-3: DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Site Development And Building Character: Site planning and development
in a GB general business district and buildings constructed in it shall be
carefully planned and designed to promote the upgrading and redevelopment of
the district. All construction and building plans shall be submitted for review
and approval by the village, as provided in section
8-7D-15 of this article, to assure such compatibility. Not withstanding that a
development or building proposal may appear to meet the specific improvement or
use criteria set forth in this article, the approval provided for in section
8-7D-15 of this article shall also require that the proposal preserve the
aesthetic values of the district and the area surrounding it.
   B.   Landscaping: In addition to meeting the foregoing criteria for approval
of improvements, landscaping shall be required which conforms to those criteria
and which enhances the topographical and natural features of the site such as
water features, unique natural areas, wooded areas, tree masses, views and
vistas.
   C.   Signage: Signs, street graphics and related identity symbols shall
harmonize with the overall character of the parcel's development and shall
clearly be incidental to the total visual impact of the development.
   D.   Outside Storage: Any articles, goods or materials to be stored other
than in a building shall be properly screened from streets and adjacent lots by
landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or screening material that
is compatible with the exterior building materials.
   E.   Screening Of Equipment And Utilities: All equipment relating to the use
or operation of a building, whether adjacent to the building, attached to a
building wall or roof mounted, including electrical equipment or transformers,
heating, air conditioning or ventilating equipment, telephone or communications
equipment, or storage tanks, shall be properly screened from streets and
adjacent lots by landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or
screening material that is compatible with the exterior building materials.
   F.   Multiple Buildings Or Structures: When multiple buildings or structures
are planned as part of a single ownership project, all buildings or structures
shall be of similar, compatible design and materials. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7D-4: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
Permitted principal uses shall only be the following. Unless noted, all
permitted principal uses shall be indoor uses.
Advertising agency.
Agricultural implement sales, service, indoor.
Antique sales.
Appliance, sales, repair or service.
Archery range, indoor.
Art gallery, commercial.
Art supply store.
Automobile supplies and service, indoor.
Bait shop.
Baker, retail.
Bank.
Barbershop.
Beauty shop.
Bicycle sales or repair.
Billiard parlor.
Blueprinting and photostat shop.
Bookstore.
Bowling alley.
Building materials sales, indoor.
Business machine sales and repair.
Camera shop.
Catalog sales or mail order store.
Catering service.
Childcare facility (see section
8-7D-5 of this article).
Cigar, cigarette, tobacco store.
Cleaning and dyeing, retail.
Clothes pressing and repair shop.
Clothing store.
Currency exchange.
Dairy products sales.
Department store.
Detective agency.
Dressmaker's shop.
Drugstore.
Dry goods store, retail.
Feed and grain sales.
Fish market, retail.
Floor covering sales.
Florist sales.
Fruit and vegetable market, retail.
Furnace, water heater sales and service.
Furniture repair and refinishing.
Furniture sales.
Garden center.
Gift shop.
Greenhouse or nursery center.
Grocery store or supermarket.
Hardware store, retail.
Health club.
Health food store.
Hearing aid store.
Hobby shop.
Ice cream shop.
Interior decorators.
Jewelry store.
Kennels, animal shelter, dog obedience school.
Laundry, retail.
Leather goods sales.
Liquor store.
Loan agency.
Locksmith.
Lodge for fraternal order.
Magazine and news store.
Meat market, retail.
Motorcycle sales and service, with or without an accessory use for a body art
studio, subject to the standards contained in subsection 8-7D-4-1A2 of this
article.
Music, musical instrument sales and service.
Off track betting facility.
Office district uses:
Business or professional school;
Conference center;
Financial institution;
Medical office;
Office, business, professional, institutional;
Office, governmental;
Real estate office;
Research laboratories.
Office equipment sales and service.
Paint and wallpaper sales.
Pawnshop.
Pet store.
Photography studio.
Picture frame sales and service.
Plumbing supplies and fixture sales, retail.
Poultry egg sales, retail.
Printing and photocopying service.
Radio and TV sales or repair.
Reducing salon.
Rental of equipment with indoor storage.
Restaurant, cafeteria.
Savings and loan association.
Shoe repair shop.
Shooting range, indoor.
Skating rink, ice or roller.
Souvenir, curio shop.
Sporting goods store.
Stationery, retail sales.
Tailor.
Taxicab office.
Taxidermist.
Ticket office.
Toy store.
Travel agency.
Union hall.
Upholstery shop.
Veterinary clinic.
Watch, clock sales and repair.
Water softening equipment sales and service. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996; amd. Ord.
99-20, 8-25-1999; Ord. 2016-O-06, 6-22-2016; Ord. 2017-O-03, 3-22-2017; Ord.
2025-O-04, 2-26-2025)
8-7D-4-1: STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Requirements: Any of the following permitted uses, whether such use is
permitted as a principal use or an accessory use, shall be subject to the
standards imposed in this section:
      1.   Off track betting facility:
         a.   Any property used for off track betting purposes must, at all
times and in all circumstances, be in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws, ordinances, and regulations, especially all regulations
pertaining to off track betting facilities of the Illinois racing board.
         b.   The site for the off track betting facility is found to be
physically and environmentally suitable for development in the GB district as a
permitted use as part of the village staff/village consultants reviews, and the
site must be found to be able to take access from a regional arterial roadway
as identified in the village's comprehensive plan and cannot take any access
from a local street or roadway except for purposefully designed emergency
access points only, and the site shall be located as a commercial use that is
east of the Tri-State Tollway (I-94) as noted for nonresidential uses in the
village's comprehensive plan.
         c.   The site for the off track betting facility has a minimum of 1.5
acres.
         d.   The off track betting facility shall maintain a local business
license under title 13, chapter 2 of this code and if alcoholic liquor shall be
served on the premises a liquor license shall be maintained under title 10,
chapter 2 of this code.
         e.   All parking lots, internal driveways, and walkways shall be
illuminated in compliance with the applicable building and lighting codes of
the village.
         f.   Notwithstanding any other regulation, parking for the facility
must be provided in the amount of one parking space for each one hundred sixty
(160) square feet of building floor area. (Ord. 2016-O-06, 6-22-2016)
      2.   Motorcycle sales and service with an accessory body art studio use:
         a.   Shall have this accessory use contained entirely within the
motorcycle dealership principal building.
         b.   Shall have no separate ingress or egress doors for access to this
accessory use and the access to this accessory use shall only be through the
ingress or egress doors for the motorcycle dealership.
         c.   The maximum gross square feet of floor area for this accessory
use shall not exceed the lesser of one thousand (1,000) square feet or fifteen
percent (15%) of the retail display area.
         d.   The operation of this accessory use shall only occur during the
hours when the sales operation of the principal use of the motorcycle
dealership is open for sales business.
         e.   Shall comply with all applicable state and local laws, rules, and
ordinances. (Ord. 2017-O-03, 3-22-2017)
8-7D-5: PERMITTED CHILDCARE FACILITY:
   A.   Application for permission to construct or operate a childcare facility
shall be accompanied by copies of all valid permits issued and required by the
state of Illinois, department of child and family services, and any other
applicable county, state or federal agency. If such permits cannot be obtained
prior to the time of application, the application shall be accompanied by a
report from the appropriate licensing agency, if any, stating the licensing
requirements and a statement as to how the applicant intends to meet these
requirements.
   B.   Applications for permission to construct or operate a childcare
facility shall be accompanied by a report and recommendation from the Lake
County health department.
   C.   There shall be a minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of safe
outdoor play area for every child for which the facility is licensed to
accommodate.
   D.   There shall be a minimum of thirty five (35) square feet of usable
indoor floor area for every child for which the facility is licensed to
accommodate. Usable floor area does not include administrative space, storage
areas, bathrooms, hallways, kitchen, or other areas that are not used for
direct activities.
   E.   All outdoor play areas shall be fenced.
   F.   No outdoor play apparatus or play field shall be located in any
required buffer yard or next to a pond, railroad tract, street or other hazard.
   G.   Nothing contained within this Article shall prohibit the establishment
or operation of a noncommercial child day care facility which has been licensed
by the State and is accessory and incidental to a principal use. As a
noncommercial accessory use, the day care facility shall accommodate only the
children of persons employed on the premises or shall accommodate children only
on an irregular basis solely for the convenience of the patrons of the
principal use. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7D-6: PERMITTED FREESTANDING OR ATTACHED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
The cumulative total floor area of all freestanding or attached accessory
structures shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the area of the principal
building for parking structures, and ten percent (10%) thereof for other
accessory structures. No such freestanding or attached accessory use shall be
established prior to the principal use. Permitted freestanding or attached
accessory structures shall only be the following:
   A.   Automobile parking structure.
   B.   Shelter for commuter rail passengers.
   C.   Security gatehouse.
   D.   Covered automobile entrance drop-off area.
   E.   Cover over financial office drive-up teller station(s).
   F.   Utility and communications equipment enclosing structures.
   G.   Fully enclosed shed not to exceed 225 square feet of floor area, 15
feet in height, and one per lot. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996; amd. Ord. 2025-O-04,
2-26-2025)
8-7D-7: PERMITTED NONSTRUCTURAL ACCESSORY USES:
No such nonstructural accessory use shall be established prior to the principal
use and shall only be the following:
   A.   Surface parking and loading areas for vehicles.
   B.   Open swimming pool.
   C.   Sidewalks, plazas, playground and similar pedestrian areas for either
passive or active recreation.
   D.   Ponds, storm water detention basins, fountains or other water features.
   E.   Landscaping.
   F.   Freestanding signs, street graphics, or identity symbols.
   G.   Outdoor lighting fixtures.
   H.   Fences.
   I.   Driveways and internal vehicular circulation. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7D-8: SPECIAL USES:
In order to accomplish the general purpose of this Article, certain unusual
uses need special consideration. They require special regulations to achieve
compatibility with existing development and zoning. Often the effects of these
uses on the surrounding environment cannot be foreseen until a specific site
has been proposed. They must be given special consideration and located
relative to the existing development pattern. They are not permitted
automatically but are subject to the issuance of a special use permit as
provided in Section
8-10-1 of this Title and subject to the standards set forth herein and such
additional standards or conditions as may be established by the Village at the
time of approval of a special use permit.
   A.   Such special permit uses fall into two (2) categories:
      1.   Uses operated either by a public agency or publicly related utility,
or uses traditionally effected with a public interest.
      2.   Uses entirely private in character but of such a nature that the
operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact upon
neighboring property or public facilities, and including the following:
Agricultural implement sales, service, outdoor.
Automobile sales, supplies and service
Boat sales, supplies and service
Building materials sales yard
Employee food service facility
Gasoline service station
Hotel or motel
Lumber, retail sales
Motion picture theater, indoor
Radio and television station and studio
Recreational vehicle sales and service
Tavern or nightclub, which is accessory to a restaurant
Truck sales, repair
Truck, trailer rental
   B.   In addition to the general provisions for special uses as set forth in
the first paragraph of this Section and all other applicable standards of this
Article, the following special standards shall be met for the special uses
listed below:
      1.   Agricultural implement sales, service, outdoor:
         a.   All work or service on agricultural implements shall be conducted
indoors.
         b.   All agricultural implements shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7D-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Agricultural implements stored outdoors shall
only be located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any
otherwise required parking area.
      2.   Automobile Sales, supplies and service:
         a.   The minimum frontage on any street shall be two hundred feet
(200').
         b.   The minimum lot area for any automobile sales shall be two (2)
acres.
         c.   All work or service on automobiles shall be conducted indoors.
         d.   All outdoor storage of automobiles shall be screened at a minimum
from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high
minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7D-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed parking area. Vehicles stored or parked for service outdoors
shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any
otherwise required parking area. The only locations of automobiles on display
for sale shall be as approved in the Special Use Permit plans.
         e.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any vehicle
shall be allowed in the GB District.
      3.   Boat sales, supplies and service:
         a.   All work or service on boats shall be conducted indoors.
         b.   All outdoor storage of boats shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7D-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Boats stored outdoors shall only be located in
this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise required parking
area.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any boat shall
be allowed in the GB District.
      4.   Building Material Sales Yard:
         a.   All materials stored outdoors shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7D-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Materials stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   In no case shall the height of materials stored outdoors exceed
the height of the screening.
         c.   Building materials stored outdoors shall not include any salvage
materials, scrap metal, rags, paper, vehicle parts, or any type of refuse.
         d.   Building materials shall not be stored in any parked vehicle or
trailer except for the time in which they are being loaded and unloaded, which
shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
      5.   Employee Food Service Facility:
         a.   All such facilities shall be considered an accessory use to any
otherwise permitted use.
         b.   Such facilities shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the floor
area of the principal use.
         c.   Such facilities shall be for the exclusive use of the owners,
employees, tenants or guests of the principal use.
         d.   No sign visible to the general public shall indicate the
existence of the employee food service facility nor shall its existence be
advertised to the general public.
         e.   In no case shall the use of the employee food service facility
predate the substantial installation and operation of the principal use. The
use of the employee food service facility shall cease immediately upon
termination of the principal use.
         f.   No service of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted.
      6.   Gasoline Service Station:
         a.   The minimum lot area for any gasoline service station is twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet.
         b.   Any gasoline service station shall have its primary lot frontage
on an arterial or collector highway.
         c.   The minimum lot frontage shall be one hundred fifty feet (150').
         d.   There shall be no outdoor display or storage of goods offered for
sale or stored on the property.
      7.   Hotel Or Motel:
         a.   The minimum lot area for any hotel or motel is two (2) acres.
         b.   Ingress and egress to and from all rooms shall be through an
inside lobby supervised at all times through a common entrance.
         c.   Accessory uses to any hotel or motel shall be limited to those
uses customarily and historically associated with them for the accommodation of
the guests, including meeting rooms, restaurant and outdoor recreation
facilities.
         d.   All outdoor recreation facilities shall be securely fenced and
for the exclusive use of the guests.
      8.   Lumber, Retail Sales:
         a.   All lumber, wood products and related building materials and
supplies offered for sale shall be stored indoors and no outdoor storage of any
type shall be permitted.
         b.   All buildings and structures shall be fully enclosed.
         c.   In no case shall the height of the machinery stored outdoors
exceed the height of the screening.
         d.   All repair or servicing of any machinery shall be done indoors.
      9.   Motion Picture Theater, Indoor:
         a.   Any motion picture shall be of a general type catering to the
more popular taste in films.
         b.   Any motion picture shall have a capacity of two hundred (200)
seats minimum.
      10.   Radio And Television Studio:
         a.   No tower or antenna shall be visible from the nearest residential
zoning district.
         b.   The operation of any transmitter, antenna or other equipment
shall not cause interference with any other form of radio or television device
within the Village.
      11.   Recreational Vehicle Sales And Service:
         a.   Recreational vehicles in storage or parked for service shall be
screened at a minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing
eight feet (8') high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten
feet (10') high minimum. , or combination thereof per a Section
8-7D-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Recreational vehicles stored
or parked for service outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure
area and separated from any otherwise required parking area. The only locations
of recreational vehicles on display for sale shall be as approved in the
Special Use Permit plans.
         b.   All service or work on recreational vehicles shall be done
indoors.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any recreational
vehicle shall be allowed in the GB District.
      12.   Truck Sales, Repair:
         a.   Trucks and trailers in storage or parked for service shall be
screened at a minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing
eight feet (8') high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten
feet (10') high minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7D-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Trucks and trailers stored or
parked for service outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure
area and separated from any otherwise required parking area. The only locations
of trucks and trailers on display for sale shall be as approved in the Special
Use Permit plans.
         b.   All service or work on trucks and trailers shall be done indoors.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any truck shall
be allowed in the GB District.
      13. Truck, Trailer Rental:
         a.   All trucks and trailers offered for rent shall be screened at a
minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8')
high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7D-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Trucks and trailers stored or
parked outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and
separated from any otherwise required parking area.
         b.   No servicing or repair of trucks or trailers shall be permitted
on the property.
         c.   No truck or trailer shall be used for storage except for the time
in which they are being loaded and unloaded for transportation of goods onto or
off the site, which shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
         d.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any truck shall
be allowed in the GB District. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996; amd. Ord. 2025-O-04, 2-
26-2025)
8-7D-9: LOT AND BULK STANDARDS:
   A.   Lot Area: Every lot or parcel shall have a minimum area of ten thousand
(10,000) square feet. Any nonconforming lot or parcel shall not be entitled to
be used as a principal building site, but may be used in conjunction with an
adjacent conforming lot or parcel for accessory uses.
   B.   Lot Frontage: Every lot or parcel shall have a minimum street frontage
of fifty feet (50') measured at the front lot line. Any nonconforming lot or
parcel shall not be entitled to be used as a principal building site, but may
be used in conjunction with an adjacent conforming lot or parcel for accessory
uses.
   C.   Building Coverage: Not more than forty five percent (45%) of the area
of a lot may be covered by all buildings and structures.
   D.   Floor Area: The total floor area of all buildings and structures on a
lot shall not exceed sixty percent (60%) of the area of the lot.
   E.   Maximum Impervious Surface Ratio: The maximum impervious surface,
including buildings and paved areas, on a lot shall not exceed seventy five
percent (75%) of the area of the lot.
   F.   Building Setbacks: The required minimum setbacks from the property line
of a lot are set forth below:
      1.   Front yard, 30 feet.
      2.   Side yard, 12 feet. Side yards are not required in this Zone if the
proposed construction meets fire codes and if the lot line is not a zoning
boundary line or a street, provided that there is acceptable access to the rear
of the property. Nothing herein shall permit the creation of a fractional part
of the required minimum side yard.
      3.   Side yard adjoining a street, 30 feet.
      4.   Rear yard, 12 feet.
      5.   Side or rear yard abutting a railroad, 12 feet.
      6.   Abutting residential, 50 feet.
      7.   There shall be 2 feet additional setback required for each 1 foot of
building height over 25 feet.
   G.   Parking Setbacks: The required minimum setbacks from the property line
of a lot are set forth below:
      1.   Front yard, 10 feet.
      2.   Side yard, 10 feet.
      3.   Side yard adjoining a street, 10 feet.
      4.   Rear yard, 10 feet.
      5.   Outdoor vehicle display, 10 feet.
      6.   Side or rear yard abutting a railroad, 10 feet.
   H.   Accessory Structure Setbacks: The required minimum setbacks from the
property line of a lot are set forth below:
      1.   Gas station pump islands, 20 feet.
      2.   Gas station canopy, 10 feet.
      3.   The minimum separation between an accessory structure and any other
structure, 4 feet.
   I.   Building Height: No principal building or structure shall exceed forty
five feet (45') or three (3) stories in height including fully enclosed rooftop
mechanical equipment penthouses.
   J.   Storage Of Garbage And Trash: All garbage cans, trash containers and
other storage devices situated on any lot shall be properly screened from
streets and adjacent lots by landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping
materials or screening that is compatible with building architecture. All
garbage cans, trash containers and other garbage storage devices shall be
rodentproof and shall be emptied and the contents thereof properly disposed of
not less than once every seven (7) days. There shall be no trash burning or
incineration devices or facilities. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7D-10: SIGNS:
All signs shall meet the requirements of the Sign Ordinance, Title 11 of this
Village Code. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7D-11: TRAFFIC DIRECTIONAL SIGNS:
Traffic directional signs shall be required to indicate and control the flow of
traffic and ingress and egress routes on each lot or parcel. All such signs
shall be of a size and type and otherwise meet all the uniform standards for
traffic-control signs of the Illinois Department of Transportation. (Ord. 96-
18, 8-28-1996)
8-7D-12: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
All parking lots, internal driveways, and walkways shall be illuminated in
accord with the following standards:
   A.   Luminaries: All exterior lighting luminaries shall be baffled so that
glare is minimized. All luminaries shall be designed so that the cut-off line
of light is at least ten feet (10') within the property line. The maximum
permitted height of luminaries shall be thirty feet (30').
   B.   Illumination: The maximum, permitted level of illumination is three
(3.0) foot-candles. Illumination shall be measured in foot- candles at six
inches (6") above ground level in a horizontal position at the point ten feet
(10') inside the property line. A direct reading portable light meter with
color and cosine corrected sensor with multiple scales shall be used. The meter
shall have been tested and calibrated to an accuracy of plus or minus five
percent (±5%) within one year of its use. Measurements shall be made after
dark. The difference between lights on measurements and lights off measurements
shall be used to determine the illumination level and to eliminate the effects
of ambient light. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7D-13: OFF-STREET PARKING:
No on-street parking shall be permitted in any GB General Business District.
All uses in the District shall be provided with off-street parking designed to
provide for one hundred percent (100%) of the required parking for the proposed
use at peak occupancy.
   A.   Calculation Of Number Of Spaces: In determining the total parking
required, any fraction shall be counted as one parking space.
   B.   Size: Each parking space shall be at least nine feet by eighteen feet
(9' x 18') in size and shall be a definitely designated stall adequate for one
motor vehicle. Two percent (2%) of all required parking spaces shall be
designated for handicapped parking and shall be twelve feet by eighteen feet
(12' x 18') in size and located as close as possible to the entrance(s) of the
building or use for which the parking is intended. Adequate access aisles to
each stall and to the street shall be provided.
   C.   Multiple Uses: If multiple uses on a lot vary in their parking
requirements, the number of parking spaces shall be the sum of the individual
requirements for each use. However, where peak parking requirements occur at
distinctly different times of the day or week, the total number of spaces may
be reduced. In no case shall the total number of spaces be less than the hourly
peak concentration of the combined uses on the site.
   D.   Surface: All parking facilities, access driveways and aisles, and other
internal vehicular circulation shall be paved.
   E.   Number Of Spaces: The following are the minimum of off-street parking
spaces required to be built or reserved for each use within the General
Business District:
All retail stores (unless listed below)  1 space per 300 square feet
                                          1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Agricultural implement sales, service    spaces for every 3 employees,
                                          whichever is greater
Blueprinting or photostat shop           1 space per 300 square feet
                                          5 spaces per lane, plus 1 space per
                                          employee on the largest work shift,
Bowling alley                            plus 50 percent of the spaces
                                          otherwise required for accessory uses
                                          (e.g., tavern, restaurant)
Building material sales                  1 space per 300 square feet
Catering service                         1 space per 300 square feet
                                          1 space per teacher and employee on
                                          the largest shift, plus 1 space per 6
Child care facility                      students or off- street waiting
                                          spaces to accommodate at least 6
                                          automobiles
Furniture repair or refinishing shop     1 space per 300 square feet
Health club or fitness center            1 space per 250 square feet
Hotel or motel                           1 space per suite plus spaces as
                                          otherwise required for accessory uses
Lodge for fraternal order                1 space per 3 persons to the maximum
                                          capacity of the facility
Lumber, retail sales                     1 space per 300 square feet
Motion picture theater                   1 space per 3 patrons based on
                                          maximum capacity
Office District Uses:                     
 Business or professional school        1 space per 1,000 square feet plus a
                                          space per 2 students
 Conference center                      1 space per 1,000 square feet plus 1
                                          space per 2 patrons
 Financial institution                  1 space per 250 square feet, plus 6
                                          stacking spaces per drive-up teller
 Medical office                         1 space per 200 square feet
 Office; business, professional         1 space per 300 square feet
  institutional
 Office, governmental                   1 space per 250 square feet
 Real estate office                     1 space per 250 square feet
 Research laboratories                  1 space per 300 square feet
                                          1 space per 50 square feet. Only the
Restaurant, cafeteria                    areas where customers are served
                                          shall be included in this calculation
Skating rink, ice or roller              1 space per 300 square feet
                                          1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Recreational vehicle sales and service   spaces for every 3 employees,
                                          whichever is greater
                                          1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Truck sales, repair                      spaces for every 3 employees,
                                          whichever is greater
                                          1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Truck, trailer rental                    spaces for every 3 employees,
                                          whichever is greater
Union hall                               1 space per 3 persons to the maximum
                                          capacity of the facility
 
   F.   Future Parking Reserve: At the option of the builder of any building
and subject to the approval of the Plan Commission during the design review
process, a maximum of twenty five percent (25%) of the total required parking
spaces may be designated as a future parking reserve subject to the following
standards:
      1.   The designated spaces shall be those located the farthest away from
the building.
      2.   The designated spaces shall be landscaped in a manner compatible
with the balance of the landscaping on the site.
      3.   The designated spaces shall not be a part of nor encroach upon any
otherwise required buffer yard or foundation yard or parking lot landscape
area.
      4.   In the sole discretion of the Village, if at any time there appears
to be a parking deficiency, no further occupancy permits shall be issued until
such time that the future parking spaces held in reserve are improved to
correct the deficiency.
      5.   Until such time as the building is ninety five percent (95%)
occupied, the builder shall guarantee that the designated future parking
reserve will be improved if required to meet the parking demand for the
building. Such guarantee shall be in the form of an irrevocable letter of
credit in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost
of constructing the spaces held in reserve, or such other form of guarantee
acceptable and approved by the Village. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7D-14: OFF-STREET LOADING:
All uses involving the receipt or distribution of goods by vehicle shall have
space on the premises for the pick-up, delivery and service vehicles necessary
for normal daily operation. These spaces shall be in addition to the off-street
spaces required. Off-street loading facilities shall be provided in accord with
the following standards:
   A.   Number Of Spaces: One space per building containing five thousand
(5,000) square feet to fifty thousand (50,000) square feet plus one additional
space for each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet or
fraction thereof.
   B.   Size: The minimum size of all required loading spaces shall be twelve
feet wide by forty feet in length (12' x 40') and shall have a vertical
clearance of fifteen feet (15').
   C.   Location: All required loading spaces shall meet the building setback
requirements. Loading spaces facing any street shall be interior.
   D.   Screening: All exterior loading spaces on the side or rear of any
building shall be screened from adjoining properties and the street by
landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or screening that is
compatible with building architecture. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7D-15: DESIGN REVIEW:
No building, improvement or structure shall be erected in the District that is
not in compliance with design criteria set forth in Section
8-7D-3 of this Article. No permit shall be issued for any building, improvement
or structure unless it has first been approved as complying with said design
criteria by the Plan Commission of the Village and by the Village Board as
herein provided. In the event that the Plan Commission rejects or fails to
approve any plans submitted for design review within forty five (45) days after
submission, the person submitting such plans may appeal from said rejection or
failure to approve in the same manner as herein provided for appeals from the
decisions of officers of the Village to the Board of Appeals of the Village, as
provided in Section
8-11-5 of this Title. If the Plan Commission rejects any plan, it shall state
the reason for rejection in writing.
   A.   Procedure: Prior to obtaining a building permit for any new
construction in the GB General Business District, three (3) sets of preliminary
design plans shall be submitted to the Building Department along with the
preliminary plan review fee. As otherwise required, building permits for all
interior modifications or interior tenant improvements and occupancy permits
for all changes in tenancy shall not be subject to the design review by the
Plan Commission unless either of these changes increases the number of parking
spaces required under this Article.
   B.   Building Department Review: The Building Commissioner shall review the
submitted preliminary design plans to determine if they are complete and meet
the basic zoning, building and site development standards of the Village.
   C.   Plan Commission Review: Thereafter, the plans shall be submitted to the
Village Plan Commission for design review and comment. The Plan Commission
shall determine if the proposed site development, landscaping, building design
and signs satisfy the design criteria standards of this Article. The plan shall
then be submitted to the Village Board at a regular meeting for final approval.
Upon approval of the preliminary design plans, one set of approved plans shall
be returned to the applicant, one set shall be placed on file with the Building
Department, and one set shall be placed on file with the Plan Commission.
   D.   Building Permits: No building permit shall be issued that is not in
compliance with the approved preliminary design plans.
   E.   Required Preliminary Design Plan Documents:
      1.   Location Map: A dimensioned location map at a scale of one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger, showing the relationship of the
subject site to adjoining properties, land uses, structures, streets and
natural features within one thousand feet (1,000') of the subject site. A
current plan review aerial photograph to a scale of one inch equals four
hundred feet (1" = 400') may be substituted in lieu of a map drawing.
      2.   Site Plan: A dimensioned site plan shall be prepared at a scale of
one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20') or larger, showing the following:
         a.   Surveyed property lines and easements.
         b.   Building setback lines and buffer yard lines.
         c.   All proposed buildings and structures.
         d.   All proposed nonstructural accessory uses.
         e.   Existing topography and proposed topography at one foot intervals
at U.S.G.S. datum.
         f.   Proposed finish floor and roof elevations at U.S.G.S. datum.
         g.   Proposed landscaping plan in accordance with Sections
8-7D-17 and
8-7D-18 of this Article.
         h.   Proposed garbage and trash storage facilities.
         i.   Proposed exterior lighting type and location of luminaries and
illumination level contours at one foot-candle intervals.
         j.   At the applicant's option, any other site plan design information
which the applicant feels may explain the site design concept.
      3.   Building Plans: Dimensioned preliminary building plans for all
buildings and structures shown on the site plan at a scale of one inch equals
eight feet (1" = 8') or larger, showing the following:
         a.   Floor, penthouse and roof plans.
         b.   Elevations indicating materials, colors and textures.
         c.   Cross sections.
         d.   Proposed garbage and trash storage facilities.
         e.   At the applicant's option, any other drawings, material samples,
or other information which the applicant feels may explain the building design
concept.
      4.   Sign Plans: A dimensioned drawing of all proposed temporary and
permanent signs at a scale of one inch equals one foot (1" = 1') or larger,
indicating the following:
         a.   Sign materials, construction and supporting structure. Structural
calculations shall also be required for all freestanding signs of one hundred
(100) square feet or larger surface area.
         b.   Lettering and graphic information contents.
         c.   Colors and textures.
         d.   Method of illumination.
         e.   At the applicant's option, any other information, material
samples or drawings which the applicant feels may explain the sign design
concept. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7D-16: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
Before any building or other structure, or part thereof, shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, moved or structurally altered, a building
permit shall be obtained. Before the use of any building, structure or land is
changed, including any change in tenancy, an occupancy permit shall be
obtained. Any use or occupancy, which was not discontinued during any
alteration work, shall be discontinued within thirty (30) days after the
completion of the alteration if a new occupancy permit is not issued. (Ord. 96-
18, 8-28-1996)
8-7D-17: TREE SURVEY AND PRESERVATION:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this Section to govern the
removal of trees and other significant vegetation and ensure the replacement of
trees in public and private properties within the Village.
   B.   Tree Survey: A tree survey plan indicating the location, size, genus
and species of all trees within the subject property shall be submitted to the
Village. The plan shall indicate all trees designated for preservation. Site
plan review shall not commence until the tree survey is submitted to the
Village. The tree survey shall include the following:
      1.   Topographic Survey: Existing and proposed contour elevations (one-
foot intervals) to determine long-range adverse effects on plant materials
designated for preservation.
      2.   Implementation Techniques: The method used to ensure preservation of
retained vegetation shall be outlined in a written statement indicating care to
be taken during and after construction; including proximity of grading
operations to tree drip lines, installation of protective fencing and storage
of machinery and supplies.
   C.   Tree Removal Permit: All trees designated for removal having a trunk
diameter four inches (4") and greater measured six inches (6") above grade
shall require a tree removal permit. The permit shall be obtained from the
Village prior to final site plan approval. The permit application shall include
a statement giving the reasons for removal. The Village shall approve the
permit application if one or more of the following conditions is present:
      1.   The tree(s) is dead, diseased or in a weakened state.
      2.   The tree(s) poses a safety hazard to existing proposed buildings,
pedestrians and vehicles.
      3.   The tree(s) does not conform to recognized principles of good
horticultural practice.
      4.   The tree(s) is located in an area designated for a proposed building
(s), circulation or parking activity.
   D.   Trees Designated For Preservation: In the event trees designated for
preservation have been destroyed or removed as the result of construction
damage, negligence or other operations within the first five (5) years
following construction completion, such trees shall be replaced in accordance
with the following schedule:
Diameter Of      Number Of   Replacement
Existing Tree    Replacement Caliper (6"
(6" Above Grade) Trees       Above Grade)
Diameter Of      Number Of   Replacement
Existing Tree    Replacement Caliper (6"
(6" Above Grade) Trees       Above Grade)
4 in. –6 in.   6           4 in.
7 in. –12 in.  7           4 in.
13 in. 18 in.  8           4 in.
19 in. 24 in.  9           4 in.
25 in. 30 in.  10          4 in.
31 in. 36 in.  11          4 in.
36 in. +         12          4 in.
 
   E.   Species Of Trees: Replacement trees shall be limited to the following
species:
Acer (Maple excluding silver maple)
Carya (Hickory)
Celtis (Hackberry)
Fraxinus (Ash)
Ginko (Ginko)
Gleditsia (Honeylocust)
Ostrya (Hophornbeam)
Quercus (Oak)
Tilia (Linden)
Other species approved by the Village
   F.   Amended Landscape Plan: An amended landscape development plan shall be
submitted for approval by the Village. The plan shall indicate the location,
size, genus and species of all replacement trees. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7D-18: LANDSCAPE DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this Section to govern the
landscape improvement of all proposed development to enhance, protect and
preserve the appearance, character, health, safety and welfare of the Village.
   B.   Plan Requirement: A landscape development plan shall be submitted to
the Village for all improvements requiring site and/or building review. The
plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include the location of all existing and
proposed structures, property lines, signs, walks, drives, loading areas,
dumpsters, lighting, parking areas, fences, walls, elevation changes, bicycle
parking facilities, freestanding electrical and mechanical equipment, water
features, landscape irrigation, plant material and other freestanding features.
   C.   Design Criteria/Right Of Way: Landscaping shall be provided within the
right of way where a property abuts a dedicated public street as follows:
      1.   Ground Layer: All unpaved areas within public rights of way shall be
graded and sodded.
      2.   Parkway Trees:
         a.   Quantity: Parkway trees shall be planted at a spacing equivalent
to eighty feet (80') on center. Clustering or staggering of trees may be
acceptable if approved by the Village.
         b.   Size: Parkway trees shall be planted at a minimum trunk size of
three inches (3") caliper as measured six inches (6") above grade.
         c.   Species: Parkway trees shall be limited to the following species,
unless otherwise approved by the Village:
Acer (Maple excluding silver maple)
Carya (Hickory)
Celtis (Hackberry)
Fraxinus (Ash)
Ginko (Ginko)
Gleditsia (Honeylocust)
Ostrya (Hophornbeam)
Quercus (Oak)
Tilia (Linden)
Other species approved by the Village
   D.   Design Criteria/Parking Lot Interior Landscaping: All parking lots
designed for twenty (20) or more spaces shall contain the following:
      1.   Quantity: Not less than three percent (3%) of the interior of all
parking areas shall be devoted to live landscaping enclosed by approved
curbing.
         a.   The area devoted to landscaping shall be dispersed throughout the
lot.
         b.   One shade tree shall be required for every one hundred fifty
(150) square feet of landscaped area. In the event of a fraction of a tree, if
a fraction is less than one-half (1/2) tree, the lower full number shall be
used. If a fraction is one-half (1/2) tree or greater, the higher number shall
be used.
      2.   Size: Interior landscape areas shall be a minimum of one hundred
sixty (160) square feet. Areas shall have not less than eight feet (8') in
width measured from back-of-curb to back-of- curb.
      3.   Cover: Not less than fifty percent (50%) of all interior planting
areas shall consist of live landscaping.
   E.   Design Criteria/Parking Lot Perimeter Landscaping:
      1.   Front Yards: At the lot line, every lot shall have a minimum of a
ten foot (10') front landscaped yard. In addition, it shall be the
responsibility of the owner of any lot seeking a building permit to landscape
the right of way of any street from the curb of said street to the front lot
line. There shall be no parking or parking drives permitted in the front yards.
Access drives may cross the front yard where required. All curb cuts shall be
designed so as to create a means of ingress and egress for each lot consistent
with efficient traffic patterns and to not unnecessarily hinder traffic flow to
and from other lots. Curb cuts shall be limited to one for each eighty feet
(80') of street frontage. A minimum distance of one hundred feet (100') on
center is required between all access drives on a lot.
      2.   Corner Yards:
         a.   All parking lots located across a dedicated right of way from
property zoned for residential use shall be screened from adjacent properties
by a continuous shrub buffer, not less than three feet (3') in height. Such
landscaping shall include earth berms where feasible, shade, ornamental and
evergreen trees.
         b.   All parking lots located across a dedicated right of way from
properties zoned for nonresidential use shall be landscaped with a shrub buffer
covering not less than twenty five percent (25%) of the street frontage at a
height of not less than three feet (3'). Such landscaping shall include earth
berms where feasible, shade, ornamental and evergreen trees.
         c.   Except where landscaped beds or plant materials are present, all
front and corner yards shall be sodded or seeded.
      3.   Rear And Side Yards:
         a.   All parking lots located adjacent to properties zoned for
residential use shall be buffered by a solid landscape screen at a minimum
height of six feet (6'). The screen shall consist of evergreen or deciduous
shrubs, or a combination of both as approved by the Village. Such screen shall
include earth berms, deciduous, evergreen or ornamental trees where feasible. A
six foot (6') solid wood fence may be substituted for plant material if
approved by the Village. Shade trees shall be planted the equivalent of eighty
feet (80') on center at a caliper of not less than three inches (3"), measured
six inches (6") above grade. Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved by
the Village.
         b.   All parking lots abutting properties zoned for nonresidential use
shall be buffered from adjacent properties by plant material covering not less
than twenty five percent (25%) of the frontage at a minimum height of three
feet (3'). Such screen shall also include earth berms where feasible,
deciduous, evergreen and ornamental trees. Shade trees shall be planted the
equivalent of eighty feet (80') on center along the buffer, at a caliper of not
less than three inches (3"), measured six inches (6") above grade. Trees may be
clustered or staggered if approved by the Village.
         c.   Except where landscape beds or plant materials are present, all
side and rear yards shall be sodded or seeded.
         d.   All parking lots or driveways shall be located a minimum of ten
feet (10') from all side and rear property lines or five feet (5') from any
drainage easements along such property lines, whichever is greater.
   F.   Design Criteria/Building Foundation Planting:
      1.   Size: A minimum setback of ten feet (10') in width adjacent to the
building shall be devoted to landscaping, except where walks, parking lots and
service drives are required.
      2.   Materials:
         a.   Foundation planting shall consist of a combination of deciduous,
evergreen and ornamental trees, deciduous and evergreen shrubs. Ground layer,
except where plantings exist, shall consist of sod or ground layer.
         b.   All mechanical and electrical equipment, dumpsters, loading areas
and bicycle racks shall be screened from public view with a solid evergreen
hedge or fence.
   G.   Design Criteria/Site Perimeter Landscaping: All plans submitted for
review shall include perimeter landscaping as follows:
      1.   Properties Abutting Residential Property:
         a.   All properties located adjacent to properties zoned for
residential use shall be screened from view with a continuous solid screen not
less than six feet (6') in height. The screen shall consist of earth berms, a
solid wood fence six feet (6') in height, or other barrier acceptable to the
Village.
         b.   Deciduous shade trees shall be planted the equivalent of one
hundred feet (100') on center. Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved
by the Village.
         c.   In addition to the barrier and shade trees, the Village may
require additional plant materials including deciduous, evergreen and flowering
trees, ornamental and evergreen shrubs.
         d.   Ground layer materials, unless occupied by plant materials, shall
be sodded or seeded.
      2.   Properties Abutting Nonresidential Property:
         a.   All properties abutting property zoned for nonresidential use
shall include the equivalent of one shade tree, one hundred feet (100') on
center. Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved by the Village.
         b.   In addition, the Village may require additional landscaping
consisting of earth berms, evergreen, deciduous and ornamental trees, deciduous
and evergreen shrubs.
         c.   All ground layer material, unless occupied by plant material,
shall be sodded or seeded.
   H.   Installation And Maintenance:
      1.   Installation:
         a.   Site preparation work shall not be undertaken until a certificate
of acceptance is issued for the landscape development plan.
         b.   All landscaping shall be installed in conformance with procedures
established by the American Association of Nurserymen.
         c.   Plant material shall be consistent with all requirements set
forth in the "American Standard for Nursery Stock" published by the American
Association of Nurserymen, latest edition.
         d.   Prior to construction, the owner shall submit a performance and
material and labor payment bond in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of
the estimated cost of landscape construction, in a form acceptable to the
Village. The bond shall also insure completion of the work, repair of all
damages caused by the owner; and replacement of all items not in conformance
with the approved landscape development plan.
         e.   Prior to issuance of any occupancy permit, the owner must submit
evidence of substantial completion of the landscape work. In the event of
delays caused by environmental conditions, the owner may present a performance
bond in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of
landscaping and irrigation, or a letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
Village for receipt of a temporary occupancy permit. The temporary permit will
be valid for a period or one hundred fifty (150) days.
      2.   Maintenance: The owner shall submit a detailed plan of maintenance
procedures to be used to protect and promote the growth of the approved
plantings and landscaping materials for a period of at least two (2) full
growing seasons after completion of all landscaping. The owner shall provide a
bond or letter of credit in a sum equal to ten percent (10%) of the estimated
cost of the landscape construction and plantings to guarantee that the plan of
maintenance is followed and that the plantings are alive and growing at the end
of the second growing season. The bond or letter of credit shall be in the same
form as is provided for the maintenance of accepted subdivision improvement
under the Subdivision Ordinance of the Village 1 . The bond or letter of credit
shall be submitted and approved before the Village issues an occupancy permit
for the building upon the premises being landscaped.
      3.   Replacement: The owner shall replace all dead material within the
next growing season. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
ARTICLE E. GI GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-7E-1: Purpose
8-7E-2: Classification Criteria
8-7E-3: Design Criteria
8-7E-4: Permitted Principal Uses
8-7E-4-1: Standards For Certain Permitted Uses
8-7E-5: Permitted Accessory Uses Within An Office Building
8-7E-6: Permitted Freestanding Or Attached Accessory Structures
8-7E-7: Permitted Nonstructural Accessory Uses
8-7E-8: Special Uses
8-7E-9: Lot And Bulk Standards
8-7E-10: Signs
8-7E-11: Traffic Directional Signs
8-7E-12: Exterior Lighting
8-7E-13: Off Street Parking
8-7E-14: Off Street Loading
8-7E-15: Design Review
8-7E-16: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
8-7E-17: Industrial Performance Standards
8-7E-17-1: Permit Procedure
8-7E-17-2: Performance Standards
8-7E-17-3: Enforcement
8-7E-18: Tree Survey And Preservation
8-7E-19: Landscape Development Plan
8-7E-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Use: The purpose of the GI general industrial district is to govern the
planning, location and development of certain properties within the zoning
jurisdiction of the village for office, research, light industrial,
administrative and related service industry nonresidential uses. Such uses
shall be in harmony with the character of the village.
   B.   Tax Base And Employment Opportunities: The general industrial district
is provided to enhance the property tax base of local taxing jurisdictions, and
to provide employment opportunities for the residents of the community. (Ord.
96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7E-2: CLASSIFICATION CRITERIA:
For a parcel of land to qualify for consideration for classification as a
general industrial district, it must meet the following planning criteria:
   A.   Area: Any area which is zoned general industrial district should not be
less than twenty (20) acres, excluding adjoining street rights of way. Such
sites may be subdivided in accord with the provisions of the subdivision
regulations of the village 1 . Whenever petition is made to rezone an area to
general industrial district, or to add an area to a general industrial
district, the owners thereof shall also petition for the resubdivision of any
parcels of land therein into not less than the minimum areas and frontages
hereinafter required for a building site in the general industrial district, to
be entitled to have such rezoning petition considered.
   B.   Adjoining Uses: General industrial districts shall not be located in
predominantly residential areas of the village, but rather in transitional
areas where one or more boundaries of the district are adjoining to industrial
or commercial zoned areas established by zoning in the village or in its
comprehensive plan.
   C.   Utilities: All uses established in the general industrial district must
be served by sanitary sewer facilities. Individual private wells are not
permitted. Potable water shall be provided by a community water system. All
utilities shall be installed underground and shall provide for appropriate
safety measures or other controls, whether of a temporary or permanent nature,
as set forth by village, county, state or federal government agencies. Any
connection of underground utilities involving crossing a street shall be
accomplished only by augering and casing the carrier pipe.
   D.   Location: The GI general industrial district shall only be located in
that territory of the village which lies east of the I-94 toll road and south
of the Metra (Soo Line) railroad and north of the E.J. & E. railroad. (Ord. 96-
18, 8-28-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
8-7E-3: DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Site Development And Building Character: Site planning and development
in a general industrial district and buildings constructed in it shall be
carefully planned and designed to promote the upgrading and redevelopment of
the district. All construction and building plans shall be submitted for review
and approval by the village, as hereinafter provided in section
8-7E-15 of this article, to assure such compatibility. Not withstanding that a
development or building proposal may appear to meet the specific improvement or
use criteria set forth in this article, the approval provided for in said
section
8-7E-15 of this article shall also require that the proposal preserve the
aesthetic values of the district and the area surrounding it, and not be
incompatible with the prevailing character of the village.
   B.   Landscaping: In addition to meeting the foregoing criteria for approval
of improvements, landscaping shall be required which conforms to those criteria
and which enhances the topographical and natural features of the site such as
water features, unique natural areas, wooded areas, tree masses, views and
vistas.
   C.   Signage: Signs, street graphics and related identity symbols shall
harmonize with the overall character of the parcel's development and shall
clearly be incidental to the total visual impact of the development.
   D.   Outside Storage: Any articles, goods or materials to be stored other
than in a building shall be properly screened from streets and adjacent lots by
landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or screening material that
is compatible with the exterior building materials.
   E.   Screening Of Equipment And Utilities: All equipment relating to the use
or operation of a building, whether adjacent to the building, attached to a
building wall or roof mounted, including electrical equipment or transformers,
heating, air conditioning or ventilating equipment, telephone or communications
equipment, or storage tanks, shall be properly screened from streets and
adjacent lots by landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or
screening material that is compatible with the exterior building materials.
   F.   Multiple Buildings Or Structures: When multiple buildings or structures
are planned as part of a single ownership project, all buildings or structures
shall be of similar, compatible design and materials. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7E-4: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
Permitted principal uses shall only be the following. Unless noted, all
permitted principal uses shall be indoor uses.
Advertising display construction (a manufacturing facility).
Agricultural implement sales, service, indoor.
Automobile body shop 1 .
Automobile parts, supplies and service.
Automobile sales 2 .
Bakeries, wholesale.
Blueprinting or photostat shop.
Bottling companies.
Carpet and rug cleaning plant.
Catering service.
Contractor's equipment storage, indoor.
Dry cleaning and dyeing plant.
Employee food service facility 3 .
Exterminating and fumigating shop.
Farrier, blacksmith.
Food locker.
Food processing and packing.
Furniture cleaning plant.
Furniture repair or refinishing shop, sales.
Greenhouse, nonretail.
Health club or fitness center.
Industrial use, including, but not limited to: assembly, cleaning, compounding,
fabrication, manufacture, mixing, packaging, processing, production, repair,
servicing, storage and testing which can meet the industrial performance
standards (section
8-7E-17-2 of this article).
Kennel or dog daycare or grooming 4 .
Landscaping materials and supplies, sales.
Laundry.
Lumber, retail sales 5 .
Machine shop.
Mail order house.
Medical laboratory.
Mirror supply, refinishing.
Motorcycle sales, service.
Office district uses:
Business or professional school;
Conference center;
Financial institution;
Medical office;
Office, business, professional, institutional;
Office, governmental;
Real estate office;
Research laboratories.
Ornamental iron shop.
Printing and photocopying service.
Radio and television station and studio 6 .
Septic tank sales, service.
Sign shop.
Telephone exchange.
Upholstery shop.
Warehouse.
Warehouse, self-storage or miniwarehouse 7 .
Welding shop.
Well drilling service.
Wholesaling and storage of goods or materials. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996; amd.
Ord. 2012-O-14, 12-19-2012; Ord. 2014-O-36, 11-19-2014; Ord. 2025-O-04, 2-26-
2025)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-7E-4-1 of this article.
2 2. See section
  8-7E-4-1 of this article.
3 5. See section
  8-7E-4-1 of this article.
4 6. See section
  8-7E-4-1 of this article.
5 1. See section
  8-7E-4-1 of this article.
6 5. See section
  8-7E-4-1 of this article.
7 3. See section
  8-7E-4-1 of this article.
8-7E-4-1: STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish additional
regulations and standards for the creation and operation of certain permitted
uses to cover circumstances unique to the specific use.
   B.   Requirements: Any of the following permitted uses, whether such use is
permitted as a principal use or an accessory use, shall be subject to the
standards imposed in this section:
      1.   Automobile body shop:
         a.   Parking for vehicles in service shall be screened at a minimum
from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high
minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed parking area. Vehicles stored or parked for service outdoors
shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any
otherwise required parking area.
         b.   All service on vehicles shall be conducted indoors.
         c.   No vehicles shall be used for storage except for the time in
which they are being loaded and unloaded for transportation of goods onto or
off the site, which shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
         d.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any vehicle
shall be allowed in the GI District.
      2.   Automobile parts, supplies and service:
         a.   Parking for vehicles in service shall be screened at a minimum
from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high
minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor parking area. Vehicles stored or parked for service
outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and separated
from any otherwise required parking area.
         b.   All service on vehicles shall be conducted indoors.
         c.   No vehicles shall be used for storage except for the time in
which they are being loaded and unloaded for transportation of goods onto or
off the site, which shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
         d.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any vehicle
shall be allowed in the GI District.
      3.    Automobile sales:
         a.   The minimum frontage on any street shall be two hundred feet
(200').
         b.   The minimum lot area for any automobile sales shall be two (2)
acres.
         c.   Parking for vehicles in service shall be screened at a minimum
from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high
minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor parking area. Vehicles stored or parked for service
outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and separated
from any otherwise required parking area. The only locations of automobiles on
display for sale shall be as approved in the Special Use Permit plans.
         d.   All service on vehicles shall be conducted indoors.
         e.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any vehicle
shall be allowed in the GI District.
      4.   Employee food service facility:
         a.   All such facilities shall be considered an accessary use to any
otherwise permitted use.
         b.   Such facilities shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the floor
area of the principal use.
         c.   Such facilities shall be for the exclusive use of the owners,
employees, tenants or guests of the principal use.
         d.   No sign visible to the general public shall indicate the
existence of the employee food service facility nor shall its existence be
advertised to the general public.
         e.   In no case shall the use of the employee food service facility
predate the substantial installation and operation of the principal use. The
use of the employee food service facility shall cease immediately upon
termination of the principal use.
         f.   No service of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted. (Ord. 96-
18, 8-28-1996)
      5.   Kennel, dog daycare or grooming:
         a.   Any property used for kennel or dog daycare purposes must, at all
times and in all circumstances, be in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws, ordinances, and regulations, especially all department
of agriculture regulations pertaining to kennels.
         b.   Solid dog waste must be picked up on a daily basis from the
premises and placed in a sealed container. No solid dog waste may remain
outside for more than a twenty four (24) hour period.
         c.   Dog time outside for drop off or pick up shall be limited and the
dog or dogs shall be immediately directed into the building or into a secured
fenced area and within the fenced area dog time outside must be supervised and
shall not exceed twenty (20) minutes per occurrence before seven o’clock (7:00)
A.M. or after nine o’clock (9:00) P.M.
         d.   All parking lots, internal driveways, and walkways shall be
illuminated in accord with the following standards:
            (1)   Luminaries: All exterior lighting luminaries shall be baffled
so that glare is minimized. All luminaries shall be designed so that the cutoff
line of light is at least ten feet (10') within the property line. The maximum
permitted height of luminaries shall be thirty feet (30').
            (2)   Illumination: The maximum permitted level of illumination is
three (3) foot-candles. Illumination shall be measured in foot-candles at six
inches (6") above ground level in a horizontal position at the point ten feet
(10') inside the property line. A direct reading portable light meter with
color and cosine corrected sensor with multiple scales shall be used. The meter
shall have been tested and calibrated to an accuracy of plus or minus five
percent (±5%) within one year of its use. Measurements shall be made after
dark. The difference between lights on measurements and lights off measurements
shall be used to determine the illumination levels and to eliminate the effects
of ambient light.
         e.   Notwithstanding any other regulation, parking for the facility
must be provided in the amount of one parking place for four hundred (400)
square feet.
         f.   Any kennel or dog daycare facility must contain the following
minimum interior space within a building and exterior space within an enclosed
fenced area as follows:
            (1)   For dog grooming only: No minimum is required.
            (2)   For a kennel or dog daycare facility: A minimum of fifty (50)
square feet of space within a building is required for every one dog and a
minimum of twenty five (25) square feet of exterior space is required for every
one dog that may be within the enclosed fenced area at any one time.
            (3)   For a kennel or dog daycare facility that also includes dog
training: In addition to the previous minimum area requirements, a minimum of a
total of fifty (50) square feet of training space for every one dog to be
trained shall be provided in either a fenced in exterior area or in an interior
building.
         g.   For any dog potty area on a kennel or dog daycare site, the
enclosed privacy fenced area must be lit during all periods of use during
darkness. Any such potty area must have a solid surface that is capable of
sanitation on a regular basis, or have an adequate land area and appropriate
drainage such that no odors, flies, disease, or other nuisance is created by
the use of such potty area on the kennel or dog daycare facility property, or
on neighboring property. (Ord. 2012-O-14, 12-19-2012)
      6.   Lumber, retail sales:
         a.   All lumber, wood products and related building materials and
supplies offered for sale shall be stored indoors and no outdoor storage of any
type shall be permitted.
         b.   All buildings and structures shall be fully enclosed.
      7. Radio and television studio:
         a.   No tower or antenna shall be visible from the nearest residential
zoning district.
         b.   The operation of any transmitter, antenna or other equipment
shall not cause interference with any other form of radio or television device
within the village.
      8. Warehouse, self-storage or miniwarehouse:
         a.   This use shall be defined as a single building or group of
buildings in a controlled access and fenced compound that contains varying
sizes of individual compartmentalized stalls or lockers for the dead storage of
customer’s goods or wares.
         b.   A site for such a use shall not exceed three (3) acres.
         c.   The building height shall not exceed twenty five feet (25') or
two (2) stories.
         d.   Vehicular ingress and egress shall be limited to one access point
on the site’s principal street frontage.
         e.   There shall be a minimum of thirty five feet (35') between
warehouse buildings for driveways, parking and fire lane purposes. Where no
parking is provided within the building separation areas, the building
separation may be twenty five feet (25').
         f.   The facilities shall be used for dead storage only, and no
radioactive, explosive or biohazardous material may be stored on the premises.
         g.   No auctions, commercial sales, garage sales or the like shall be
conducted on the premises.
         h.   The servicing or repairing of motor vehicles, boats, trailers,
lawn mowers or other similar equipment shall not be conducted on the premises.
         i.   A resident manager shall be required on the site and shall be
responsible for maintaining the operation in conformance with the requirements
of this article. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996; amd. Ord. 2012-O-14, 12-19-2012; Ord.
2025-O-04, 2-26-2025)
8-7E-5: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES WITHIN AN OFFICE BUILDING:
The cumulative total floor area of all accessory uses within an office building
shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total floor area of the building.
Permitted accessory uses within an office building shall only be the following:
Barbershop.
Beauty shop.
Blueprinting and drafting supply store.
Bookstore.
Childcare facility:
   A.   Application for permission to construct or operate a childcare facility
shall be accompanied by copies of all valid permits issued and required by the
state of Illinois, department of child and family services, and any other
applicable county, state or federal agency. If such permits cannot be obtained
prior to the time of application, the application shall be accompanied by a
report from the appropriate licensing agency, if any, stating the licensing
requirements and a statement as to how the applicant intends to meet these
requirements.
   B.   Applications for permission to construct or operate a childcare
facility shall be accompanied by a report and recommendation from the Lake
County health department.
   C.   There shall be a minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of safe
outdoor play area for every child for which the facility is licensed to
accommodate.
   D.   There shall be a minimum of thirty five (35) square feet of usable
indoor floor area for every child for which the facility is licensed to
accommodate. Usable floor area does not include administrative space, storage
areas, bathrooms, hallways, kitchen, or other areas that are not used for
direct activities with children.
   E.   All outdoor play areas shall be fenced.
   F.   No outdoor play apparatus or play field shall be located in any
required buffer yard or next to a pond, railroad track, street or other hazard.
   G.   Nothing contained within this article shall prohibit the establishment
or operation of a noncommercial child daycare facility which has been licensed
by the state and is accessory and incidental to a principal use. As a
noncommercial accessory use, the daycare facility shall accommodate children
only on an irregular basis solely for the convenience of the patrons of the
principal use.
Computer software and hardware sales and repair service.
Florist.
Greeting card and gift shop.
Health club or fitness center.
Newspaper stand.
Office supply store.
Pharmacy.
Printing shop.
Restaurant or cafeteria.
Tobacco shop.
Travel agent. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7E-6: PERMITTED FREESTANDING OR ATTACHED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
The cumulative total floor area of all freestanding or attached accessory
structures shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the area of the principal
building for parking structures, and ten percent (10%) thereof for other
accessory structures. No such freestanding or attached accessory use shall be
established prior to the principal use. Permitted freestanding or attached
accessory structures shall only be the following:
   A.   Automobile parking structure.
   B.   Shelter for commuter rail passengers.
   C.   Security gatehouse.
   D.   Covered automobile entrance drop off area.
   E.   Cover over financial office drive-up teller station(s).
   F.   Utility and communications equipment enclosing structure(s).
   G.   Fully enclosed shed not to exceed 225 square feet of floor area, 15
feet in height, and one per lot. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996; amd. Ord. 2025-O-04,
2-26-2025)
8-7E-7: PERMITTED NONSTRUCTURAL ACCESSORY USES:
No such nonstructural accessory use shall be established prior to the principal
use and shall only be the following:
Driveways and internal vehicular circulation.
Fences.
Freestanding signs, street graphics, or identity symbols.
Landscaping.
Open swimming pool.
Open tennis court.
Outdoor lighting fixtures.
Ponds, stormwater detention basins, fountains or other water features.
Sidewalks, plazas, playground and similar pedestrian areas for either passive
or active recreation.
Surface parking and loading areas for vehicles. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7E-8: SPECIAL USES:
In order to accomplish the general purpose of this article, certain unusual
uses need special consideration. They require special regulations to achieve
compatibility with existing development and zoning. Often the effects of these
uses on the surrounding environment cannot be foreseen until a specific site
has been proposed. They must be given special consideration and located
relative to the existing development pattern. They are not permitted
automatically but are subject to the issuance of a special use permit as
provided in section
8-10-1 of this title and subject to the standards set forth herein and such
additional standards or conditions as may be established by the village at the
time of approval of a special use permit.
   A.   Such special uses fall into two (2) categories:
      1.   Uses operated either by a public agency or publicly related utility,
or uses traditionally effected with a public interest.
      2.   Uses entirely private in character but of such a nature that the
operation may give risk to unique problems with respect to their impact upon
neighboring property or public facilities and including the following uses:
      Agricultural implement sales, service, outdoor.
      Ambulance service, private.
      Boat sales, storage and service.
      Boatworks, custom building and repair.
      Building materials sales yard.
      Bulk material storage.
      Bus maintenance shop and bus parking lot.
      Contractor's equipment storage yard.
      Fuel; oil, coal, wood sales.
      Hotel or motel (subject to the conditions of subsection
8-7A-8B8 of this chapter).
      Landscape waste transfer station only as an accessory use to a
landscaping materials and supplies sales operation (subject to the conditions
of subsection B1 of this section).
      Machinery storage yard.
      Mobile home sales, service.
      Monument works.
      Motor-rail freight terminal.
      Recreational vehicle sales, service, and storage.
      Taxicab office and garage.
      Truck sales and repair.
      Truck terminal.
      Truck, trailer rental.
   B.   In addition to the general provisions for special uses as set forth in
this section and all other applicable standards of this article, the following
special standards shall be met for the special uses listed below:
      1.   Agricultural implement sales, service, outdoor:
         a.   All work or service on agricultural implements shall be conducted
indoors.
         b.   All agricultural implements shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Agricultural implements stored outdoors shall
only be located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any
otherwise required parking area.
      2.   Boat sales, storage and service:
         a.   All work or service on boats shall be conducted indoors.
         b.   All outdoor storage of boats shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Boats stored outdoors shall only be located in
this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise required parking
area.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any boat shall
be allowed in the GI District.
      3.   Boatworks, custom building and repair:
         a.   All work or service on boats shall be conducted indoors.
         b.   All outdoor storage of boats shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Boats stored outdoors shall only be located in
this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise required parking
area.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any boat shall
be allowed in the GI District.
      4.   Building material sales yard:
         a.   All materials stored outdoors shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Materials stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   In no case shall the height of materials stored outdoors exceed
the height of the screening.
         c.   Building materials stored outdoors shall not include any salvage
materials, scrap metal, rags, paper, vehicle parts, or any type of refuse.
         d.   Building materials shall not be stored in any parked vehicle or
trailer except for the time in which they are being loaded and unloaded, which
shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
      5.   Bulk material storage:
         a.   All bulk materials stored outdoors shall be screened at a minimum
from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high
minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Materials stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   In no case shall the height of materials stored outdoors exceed
the height of the screening.
         c.   Bulk materials stored outdoors shall not include any salvage
materials, scrap metal, rags, paper vehicle parts, or any type of refuse.
         d.   Bulk materials shall not be stored in any parked vehicle or
trailer except for the time in which they are being loaded and unloaded, which
shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
         6.   Bus maintenance shop and bus parking lot:
         a.   Buses shall be screened at a minimum from adjoining properties by
means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum, dense well-maintained
evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or combination thereof per a
Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Buses stored or parked
outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and separated
from any otherwise required parking area.
         b.   All service or work on buses shall be done indoors.
         c.   No buses shall be used for storage except for the time in which
they are being loaded and unloaded for transportation of goods onto or off the
site, which shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
         d.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any bus shall be
allowed in the GI District.
      7.   Contractor's equipment storage yard:
         a.   All contractor's equipment stored outdoors shall be screened at a
minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8')
high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Equipment stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   In no case shall the height of the contractor's equipment stored
outdoors exceed the height of the screening.
         c.   All repair or servicing of any equipment shall be conducted
indoors.
      8.   Fuel; oil, coal, wood sales:
         a.   All fuel types stored outdoors shall be screened at a minimum
from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high
minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Fuel stored outdoors shall only be located in
this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise required parking
area.
         b.   In no case shall the height of the fuel stored outdoors exceed
the height of the screening.
         c.   All fuel storage must meet Illinois State Fire Marshal
regulations and receive local fire marshal approval.
         d.   All fuel storage must be setback 225 feet from a Federal
Emergency Management Agency designated 500-year floodplain or flood of record
boundary and any wetland or waterbody.
      9.   Landscape waste transfer station only as an accessory use to a
landscaping materials and supplies sales use:
         a.   This accessory use allows for the temporary holding and transfer
of landscape waste only, and shall not include any cutting, sawing, chipping,
grinding, or other similar processing of landscape waste material.
         b.   The principal use must have a minimum lot area of 1.5 acres.
         c.   Use must have a state of Illinois environmental protection agency
permit before commencing operations.
         d.   The area for the landscape waste transfer facility including the
landscape waste holding area and the loading and unloading area shall not be
more than five percent (5%) of the total site area of the principal use.
         e.   The area for the landscape waste holding area shall not be more
than two percent (2%) of the total site area of the principal use.
         f.   Landscape waste must be removed daily (typically within 24 hours)
from the site with last pick up no later than five thirty o’clock (5:30) P.M.
and with a maximum of forty eight (48) hours of holding time on site in
consideration of special occasions, such as weekends and holidays.
         g.   The landscape waste shall be completely contained in a holding
area. Any holding area must be in a bin enclosed on three (3) sides with
minimum wall heights of six feet (6'), and when materials are held on site
overnight and during inclement weather, an over the top covering shall be
placed on a bin. Contained landscape waste shall not exceed the height of the
containment walls by more than two feet (2').
         h.   Transfer and holding areas must be set back at least one hundred
feet (100') from any property not zoned LI, GI, and II.
         i.   An odor control plan shall be maintained and implemented to
prevent odors from the contents of the transfer station to be sensed on
neighboring properties.
         j.   The special use permit issued under this subsection B1 shall be
renewed annually provided the operations are compliant with this subsection B1
and subject to the payment of any permit and operation fees as levied by the
village. No further hearings or formal proceedings shall be required for the
renewal of the subject special use permit.
         k.   Any review of noncompliance shall be as governed by sections
8-11-8 and
8-11-9 of this title.
      10.   Machinery storage yard:
         a.   All machinery stored outdoors shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Machinery stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   In no case shall the height of the machinery stored outdoors
exceed the height of the screening.
         c.   All repair or servicing of any machinery shall be done indoors.
      11.   Mobile home sales, service:
         a.   Mobile homes in storage or parked for service shall be screened
at a minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet
(8') high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10')
high minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Mobile homes stored or parked
for service outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and
separated from any otherwise required parking area.
         b.   All service and work on mobile homes shall be conducted indoors.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any mobile home
shall be allowed in the GI district.
      12.   Monument works:
         a.   All outdoor materials storage areas shall be screened at a
minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8')
high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage. Materials stored outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         b.   All manufacturing or other work on monuments shall be done
indoors.
      13.   Motor-rail freight terminal:
         a.   A motor-rail freight terminal shall only be located on a lot with
a minimum of 10 acres and shall be the only use of that lot.
         b.   All outdoor activity areas shall be screened at a minimum from
adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8') high minimum,
dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high minimum, or
combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Any materials, equipment, rail
cars, train engines, or vehicles stored or parked outdoors shall only be
located in this screened enclosure area and separated from any otherwise
required parking area.
         c.   All service and work on equipment, rail cars, train engines, or
vehicles shall be conducted indoors.
         d.   No trailers or rail cars shall be used for storage except for the
time in which they are being loaded and unloaded for transportation of goods
onto or off the site, which shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
         e.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any trailer or
rail car shall be allowed in the GI District.
      14.   Recreational vehicle sales, service, and storage:
         a.   Recreational vehicles in storage or parked for service shall be
screened at a minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing
eight feet (8') high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten
feet (10') high minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Recreational vehicles stored
or parked for service outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure
area and separated from any otherwise required parking area. The only locations
of recreational vehicles on display for sale shall be as approved in the
Special Use Permit plans.
         b.   All service or work on recreational vehicles shall be done
indoors.
         c.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any recreational
vehicle shall be allowed in the GI district.
      15.   Truck sales, repair:
         a.   Trucks and trailers in storage or parked for service shall be
screened at a minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing
eight feet (8') high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten
feet (10') high minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Trucks and trailers stored or
parked for service outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure
area and separated from any otherwise required parking area. The only locations
of trucks and trailers on display for sale shall be as approved in the Special
Use Permit plans.
         b.   All service or work on trucks and trailers shall be done indoors.
         c.   No truck or trailer shall be used for storage except for the time
in which they are being loaded and unloaded for transportation of goods onto or
off the site, which shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
         d.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any truck shall
be allowed in the GI District.
      16.   Truck Terminal:
         a.   A truck terminal shall only be located on a lot with a minimum of
10 acres and shall be the only use of that lot.
         b.   All truck and trailer activity areas shall be screened at a
minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8')
high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Trucks and trailers stored or
parked outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and
separated from any otherwise required parking area.
         c.   No truck or trailer shall be used for storage except for the time
in which they are being loaded and unloaded for transportation of goods onto or
off the site, which shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
         d.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any truck shall
be allowed in the GI District.
      17.   Truck, trailer rental:
         a.   All trucks and trailers offered for rent shall be screened at a
minimum from adjoining properties by means of opaque fencing eight feet (8')
high minimum, dense well-maintained evergreen landscaping ten feet (10') high
minimum, or combination thereof per a Section
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW of the proposed use's characteristics and the location
of the proposed outdoor storage or parking area. Trucks and trailers stored or
parked outdoors shall only be located in this screened enclosure area and
separated from any otherwise required parking area.
         b.   No servicing or repair of trucks or trailers shall be permitted
on the property.
         c.   No truck or trailer shall be used for storage except for the time
in which they are being loaded and unloaded for transportation of goods onto or
off the site, which shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
         d.   Neither the temporary nor permanent occupancy of any truck shall
be allowed in the GI District. (Ord. 2012-O-04, 4-25-2012; amd. Ord. 2012-O-14,
12-19-2012; Ord. 2022-O-22, 10-26-2022; Ord. 2025-O-04, 2-26-2025)
8-7E-10: SIGNS:
All signs shall meet the requirements of the Sign Ordinance, Title 11 of this
Village Code. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7E-11: TRAFFIC DIRECTIONAL SIGNS:
Traffic directional signs shall be required to indicate and control the flow of
traffic and ingress and egress routes on each lot or parcel. All such signs
shall be of a size and type and otherwise meet all the uniform standards for
traffic-control signs of the Illinois Department of Transportation. (Ord. 96-
18, 8-28-1996)
8-7E-12: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
All parking lots, internal driveways, and walkways shall be illuminated in
accord with the following standards:
   A.   Luminaries: All exterior lighting luminaries shall be baffled so that
glare is minimized. All luminaries shall be designed so that the cut-off line
of light is at least ten feet (10') within the property line. The maximum
permitted height of luminaries shall be thirty feet (30').
   B.   Illumination: The maximum permitted level of illumination is three
(3.0) foot-candles. Illumination shall be measured in foot- candles at six
inches (6") above ground level in a horizontal position at the point ten feet
(10') inside the property line. A direct reading portable light meter with
color and cosine corrected sensor with multiple scales shall be used. The meter
shall have been tested and calibrated to an accuracy of plus or minus five
percent (±5%) within one year of its use. Measurements shall be made after
dark. The difference between lights on measurements and lights off measurements
shall be used to determine the illumination level and to eliminate the effects
of ambient light. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7E-13: OFF-STREET PARKING:
No on-street parking shall be permitted in any General Industrial District. All
uses in the General Industrial District shall be provided with off-street
parking designed to provide for one hundred percent (100%) of the required
parking for the proposed use at peak occupancy.
   A.   Calculation Of Number Of Spaces: In determining the total parking
required, any fraction shall be counted as one parking space.
   B.   Size: Each parking space shall be at least nine feet by eighteen feet
(9' x 18') in size and shall be a definitely designated stall adequate for one
motor vehicle. Two percent (2%) of all required parking spaces shall be
designated for handicapped parking and shall be twelve feet by eighteen feet
(12' x 18') in size and located as close as possible to the entrance(s) of the
building or use for which the parking is intended. Adequate access aisles to
each stall and to the street shall be provided.
   C.   Multiple Uses: If multiple uses on a lot vary in their parking
requirements, the number of parking spaces shall be the sum of the individual
requirements for each use. However, where peak parking requirements occur at
distinctly different times of the day or week, the total number of spaces may
be reduced. In no case shall the total number of spaces be less than the hourly
peak concentration of the combined uses on the site.
   D.   Surface: All parking facilities, access driveways and aisles, and other
internal vehicular circulation shall be paved.
   E.   Number Of Spaces: The following are the minimum of off-street parking
spaces required to be built or reserved for each use within the General
Industrial District:
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Advertising display construction       spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Agricultural implement sales, service  spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
                                       Set per Special Use Permit review to
Ambulance service, private             meet one hundred percent (100%) of that
                                       required for the proposed use at peak
                                       occupancy.
                                       1 space per 300 square feet in addition
Automobile body shop                   to spaces reserved for cars in storage
                                       for service
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Bakeries, wholesale                    spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
Blueprinting or photostat shop         1 space per 300 square feet
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Boatworks, custom building and repair  spaces for every 3 employees, repair
                                       only, whichever is greater
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Bottling companies                     spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
Building material sales yard           1 space per 300 square feet
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Bulk material storage                  spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
Catering service                       1 space per 300 square feet
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Contractor's equipment storage, indoor spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Contractor's equipment storage yard    spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
Exterminating shop                     1 space per 300 square feet
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Food locker                            spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Food processing and packing            spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
Furniture repair or refinishing shop   1 space per 300 square feet
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Greenhouse, nonretail                  spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
Health club or fitness center          1 space per 250 square feet
Hotel or motel                         1 space per suite plus spaces as
                                       otherwise required for accessory uses
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Industrial use                         spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
                                       1 space per 100 square feet of retail
Junk yard                              floor space plus 2 spaces for every 3
                                       employees
Landscape contractor's storage yard or 1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
plant                                  spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
Landscaping materials and supplies,    1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
sales                                  spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Laundry                                spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
Lumber, retail sales                   1 space per 300 square feet
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Machine shop                           spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Machinery storage yard                 spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
Medical laboratory                     1 space per 300 square feet
Mirror supply, refinishing             1 space per 300 square feet
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Mobile home sales, service             spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Monument works                         spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
Office District Uses:                   
 Business or professional school      1 space per 1,000 square feet plus a
                                       space per 2 students
 Conference center                    1 space per 1,000 square feet plus 1
                                       space per 2 patrons
 Financial institution                1 space per 250 square feet, plus 6
                                       stacking spaces per drive-up teller
 Medical office                       1 space per 200 square feet
 Office; business, professional       1 space per 300 square feet
  institutional
 Office, governmental                 1 space per 250 square feet
 Real estate office                   1 space per 250 square feet
 Research laboratories                1 space per 300 square feet
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Ornamental iron work shop              spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
Printing and photocopying service      1 space per 300 square feet
Radio and television station           1 space per 300 square feet
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Recreational vehicle sales and service spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Sign shop                              spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
Telephone exchange                     1 space per 300 square feet
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Truck sales, repair                    spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Truck, trailer rental                  spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
Upholstery shop                        1 space per 300 square feet
                                       1 space for each 10 storage cubicles,
                                       equally distributed throughout the
Warehouse, self-storage or mini-       storage area, plus 2 spaces for
warehouse                              manager's quarters, plus 1 space for
                                       every 25 storage cubicles to be located
                                       at the project office for the use of
                                       prospective clients
                                       1 space per 2,500 square feet or 2
Warehouse                              spaces per 3 employees, (excluding
                                       self-storage or mini- warehouse)
                                       whichever is greater
Welding shop                           1 space per 300 square feet
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet or 2
Well-drilling service                  spaces for every 3 employees, whichever
                                       is greater
 
   F.   Future Parking Reserve: At the option of the builder of any building
and subject to the approval of the Plan Commission during the design review
process, a maximum of twenty five percent (25%) of the total required parking
spaces may be designated as a future parking reserve subject to the following
standards:
      1.   The designated spaces shall be those located the farthest away from
the buildings.
      2.   The designated spaces shall be landscaped in a manner compatible
with the balance of the landscaping on the site.
      3.   The designated spaces shall not be a part of nor encroach upon any
otherwise required buffer yard or foundation yard or parking lot landscape
area.
      4.   In the sole discretion of the Village, if at any time there appears
to be a parking deficiency, no further occupancy permits shall be issued until
such time that the future parking spaces held in reserve are improved to
correct the deficiency.
      5.   Until such time as the building is ninety five percent (95%)
occupied, the builder shall guarantee that the designated future parking
reserve will be improved if required to meet the parking demand for the
building. Such guarantee shall be in the form of an irrevocable letter of
credit in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost
of constructing the spaces held in reserve, or such other form of guarantee
acceptable and approved by the Village. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996; amd. Ord. 2022-
O-22, 10-26-2022)
8-7E-14: OFF-STREET LOADING:
All uses involving the receipt or distribution of goods by vehicle shall have
space on the premises for the pick-up, delivery and service vehicles necessary
for normal daily operation. These spaces shall be in addition to the off-street
spaces required. Off-street loading facilities shall be provided in accord with
the following standards:
   A.   Number Of Spaces: One space per building containing five thousand
(5,000) square feet to fifty thousand (50,000) square feet plus one additional
space for each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet or
fraction thereof.
   B.   Size: The minimum size of all required loading spaces shall be twelve
feet wide by forty feet in length (12' x 40') and shall have a vertical
clearance of fifteen feet (15').
   C.   Location: All required loading spaces shall meet the building setback
requirements. Loading spaces facing any street shall be interior.
   D.   Screening: All exterior loading spaces on the side or rear of any
building shall be screened from adjoining properties and the street by
landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or screening that is
compatible with building architecture. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7E-15: DESIGN REVIEW:
No building, improvement or structure shall be erected in the General
Industrial District that is not in compliance with design criteria set forth in
Section
8-7E-3 of this Article. No permit shall be issued for any building, improvement
or structure unless it has first been approved as complying with said design
criteria by the Plan Commission of the Village and by the Village Board as
herein provided. In the event that the Plan Commission rejects or fails to
approve any plans submitted for design review within forty five (45) days after
submission, the person submitting such plans may appeal from said rejection or
failure to approve in the same manner as herein provided for appeals from the
decisions of officers of the Village to the Board of Appeals of the Village, as
provided in Section
8-11-5 of this Title. If the Plan Commission rejects any plan, it shall state
the reason for rejection in writing.
   A.   Procedure: Prior to obtaining a building permit for any new
construction in the General Industrial District, three (3) sets of preliminary
design plans shall be submitted to the Building Department along with the
preliminary plan review fee. As otherwise required, building permits for all
interior modifications or interior tenant improvements and occupancy permits
for all changes in tenancy shall not be subject to the design review by the
Plan Commission unless either of these changes increases the number of parking
spaces required under this Article.
   B.   Building Department Review: The Building Commissioner shall review the
submitted preliminary design plans to determine if they are complete and meet
the basic zoning, building and site development standards of the Village.
   C.   Plan Commission Review: Thereafter, the plans shall be submitted to the
Village Plan Commission for design review and comment. The Plan Commission
shall determine if the proposed site development, landscaping, building design
and signs satisfy the design criteria standards of this Article. The plan shall
then be submitted to the Village Board at a regular meeting for final approval.
Upon approval of the preliminary design plans, one set of approved plans shall
be returned to the applicant, one set shall be placed on file with the Building
Department, and one set shall be placed on file with the Plan Commission.
   D.   Building Permits: No building permit shall be issued that is not in
compliance with the approved preliminary design plans.
   E.   Required Preliminary Design Plan Documents:
      1.   Location Map: A dimensioned location map at a scale of one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger, showing the relationship of the
subject site to adjoining properties, land uses, structures, streets and
natural features within one thousand feet (1,000') of the subject site. A
current plan review aerial photograph to a scale of one inch equals four
hundred feet (1" = 400') may be substituted in lieu of a map drawing.
      2.   Site Plan: A dimensioned site plan shall be prepared at a scale of
one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20') or larger, showing the following:
         a.   Surveyed property lines and easements.
         b.   Building setback lines and buffer yard lines.
         c.   All proposed buildings and structures.
         d.   All proposed nonstructural accessory uses.
         e.   Existing topography and proposed topography at one foot (1')
intervals at U.S.G.S. datum.
         f.   Proposed finish floor and roof elevations at U.S.G.S. datum.
         g.   Proposed landscaping plan in accordance with Sections
8-7E-18 and
8-7E-19 of this Article.
         h.   Proposed garbage and trash storage facilities.
         i.   Proposed exterior lighting type and location of luminaries and
illumination level contours at one foot-candle intervals.
         j.   At the applicant's option, any other site plan design information
which the applicant feels may explain the site design concept.
      3.   Building Plans: Dimensioned preliminary building plans for all
building and structures shown on the site plan at a scale of one inch equals
eight feet (1' = 8') or larger, showing the following:
         a.   Floor, penthouse and roof plans.
         b.   Elevations indicating materials, colors and textures.
         c.   Cross sections.
         d.   Proposed garbage and trash storage facilities.
         e.   At the applicant's option, any other drawings, material samples,
or other information which the applicant feels may explain the building design
concept.
      4.   Sign Plans: A dimensioned drawing of all proposed temporary and
permanent signs at a scale of one inch equals one foot (1" = 1') or larger,
indicating the following:
         a.   Sign materials, construction and supporting structure. Structural
calculations shall also be required for all freestanding signs of one hundred
(100) square feet or larger surface area.
         b.   Lettering and graphic information contents.
         c.   Colors and textures.
         d.   Method of illumination.
         e.   At the applicant's option, any other information, material
samples or drawings which the applicant feels may explain the sign design
concept. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7E-16: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
Before any building or other structure, or part thereof, shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, moved or structurally altered, a building
permit shall be obtained. Before the use of any building, structure or land is
changed, including any change in tenancy, an occupancy permit shall be
obtained. Any use or occupancy, which was not discontinued during any
alteration work, shall be discontinued within thirty (30) days after the
completion of the alteration if a new occupancy permit is not issued. (Ord. 96-
18, 8-28-1996)
8-7E-17: INDUSTRIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
It is the purpose of this Section to establish regulations and standards for
the installation and operation of industrial uses, based upon consideration of
the objectionable characteristics of such uses and the zones in which they are
permitted. Further, this Section is intended to prescribe procedures and
methods of measurement of industrial characteristics subject to such standards.
(Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7E-17-1: PERMIT PROCEDURE:
Before the Building Commissioner issues a building permit for a use in any
General Industrial District, the applicant shall furnish the Building
Commissioner sufficient information to enable the Building Commissioner to
assure himself that all performance standards and site development standards
set forth in this Article can and will be complied with at all times. The
Building Commissioner, in order to determine whether or not the applicant will
meet such standards, may require the applicant to submit the following
information:
   A.   A plot plan showing the location of all present and proposed
structures, drives, parking lots, waste disposal areas, bulk storage areas,
streets, streams, or other significant features on or within two hundred feet
(200') of the proposed site.
   B.   A description of the activity to be conducted regarding waste products,
external effects or other conditions which are regulated herein, provided
however, that the applicant shall not be required to reveal any trade secrets
of sufficient detail with regard to a process which would cause any secret
process or manufacturing procedure for a closely guarded proprietary compound
or product to become public knowledge and be available to competitors.
   C.   The type and location of abatement devices to control, or recording
instruments to measure, conformance with required standards, not including
devices and instruments which are inherent in the manufacturing process.
   D.   Such other data and certification as may reasonably be required by the
Building Commissioner to reach a determination.
All information and evidence submitted in applications to indicate conformity
to performance standards shall constitute a certification and an agreement on
the part of the applicant that the proposed use can and will conform to such
standards at all times. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7E-17-2: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
In General Industrial Districts, the following regulations shall apply:
   A.   Noise:
      1.   Permitted Noise Levels: At no point on or beyond the boundary of any
lot which abuts a lot in the same zone shall the sound pressure level resulting
from any use or activity, whether open or enclosed, exceed the maximum
permitted decibel levels for the designated octave band as set forth in Table
1:
   TABLE 1
   MAXIMUM PERMITTED SOUND
   PRESSURE LEVEL IN DECIBELS
Octave Band Frequency
Cycles Per Second Decibels
Cycles Per Second Decibels
0 -     74        67
75 -    149       59
150 -   299       52
300 -   599       46
600 -   1,199     40
1,200 - 2,399     34
2,400 - 4,799     32
4,800 - and over  32
 
      2.   Method Of Measurement: Sound levels shall be measured with a sound
level meter and associated octave band filter and impact noise filter
manufactured according to standards prescribed by the American Standards
Association. Measurements shall be using the flat network and "slow" meter
response of the sound level meter. Impulsive type noises shall be subject to
the performance standards if those noises are capable of being accurately
measured with such equipment. Noises capable of being so measured, for the
purpose of this Section, shall be those noises which cause rapid fluctuations
of the needle of the sound level meter with a variation of no more than plus or
minus two (±2) decibels. Noises incapable of being so measured, but
objectionable because of intermittence, beat frequency or shrillness, shall be
controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
      3.   Exception: Nothing in this Section shall apply to noises not
directly under the control of the property user; noises resulting from the
construction and maintenance of building and facilities including site
preparation, noises of safety signals or warning devices, and noises of
railroad or trucking equipment.
   B.   Vibration: Steady-state vibrations, for the purpose of this Section,
are vibrations which are continuous or vibrations in discrete pulses more
frequent than one hundred (100) per minute. Discrete pulses which do not exceed
one hundred (100) impulses per minute shall not cause displacement in excess of
twice the values established in Table 2 below. Impact vibration shall mean
vibrations occurring in discrete pulses separated by an interval of at least
one minute and number no more than eight (8) per twenty four (24) hour period.
      1.   Permitted Vibration Displacements: At no point on or beyond the
boundary of any lot shall the ground-transmitted steady-state or impact
vibration caused by any use or activity (except those not directly under the
control of the property user) exceed the limits as established in Tables 2 and
3 below.
   TABLE 2
   MAXIMUM PERMITTED STEADY-STATE VIBRATION
   DISPLACEMENT IN INCHES
Frequency         General Industrial Adjacent to Any
Cycles per Second District           Residential Zone
                  Inches             Inches
Frequency         General Industrial Adjacent to Any
Cycles per Second District           Residential Zone
                  Inches             Inches
Less than 10      .0008              .0004
10 through 19     .0005              .0002
20 through 29     .0003              .0001
30 through 39     .0002              .0001
40 through 49     .0001              .0001
50 and over       .0001              .0001
 
   TABLE 3
   MAXIMUM PERMITTED IMPACT VIBRATION
   DISPLACEMENT IN INCHES
Frequency         General Industrial Adjacent to Any
Cycles per Second District           Residential Zone
                  Inches             Inches
Frequency         General Industrial Adjacent to Any
Cycles per Second District           Residential Zone
                  Inches             Inches
Less than 10      .0016              .0006
10 through 19     .0010              .0003
20 through 29     .0006              .0002
30 through 39     .0004              .0001
40 through 49     .0002              .0001
50 and over       .0002              .0001
 
      2.   Method Of Measurement: For the purpose of measuring vibrations, a
three (3) component measuring system shall be used. A three (3) component
measuring system denotes instrumentation which can measure earthborn vibrations
in three (3) directions, each of which, occurs at right angles to the other two
(2).
   C.   Smoke And Particulate Matter: The emission from all sources, within any
lot, of particular matter containing more than five percent (5%) by weight or
particles having a particle diameter larger than forty four (44) microns is
prohibited. Dust and other types of air pollution borne by the wind from such
sources as storage areas, yards and roads within the boundaries of any lot
shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate landscaping, paving, oiling or other
acceptable means. Emission of particulate matter from such sources in excess of
weight limitations specified herein is prohibited. The emission of smoke or
particulate matter of a density equal to, or greater than, No. 2 on the
Ringelmann Chart is prohibited at all times, except as otherwise provided
herein.
      1.   Smoke Emission: In General Industrial Districts, the emission of
more than twelve (12) smoke units per stack in any one-hour period is
prohibited. However, once during any six (6) hour period each stack shall be
permitted up to twelve (12) additional units in a fifteen (15) minute period
for soot blowing and fire cleaning. Only during such fifteen (15) minute
periods shall smoke of a density equal to, but not exceeding, Ringelmann No. 3
be permitted, and then only for fire cleaning and for not more than four (4)
minutes per period.
      2.   Particulate Matter Emission: The rate of emission of particulate
matter from all sources within the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed the
rate established in Table 4 below:
   TABLE 4
   PERMITTED RATE OF PARTICULATE MATTER EMISSION
   IN POUNDS PER HOUR, PER ACRE
Height Of Emission
Feet Pounds
Feet         Pounds
0 – 49     1.00
50 –99     1.01
100 149    1.06
150 199    1.10
200 299    1.16
300 399    1.30
400 and over 1.50
 
      3.   Methods Of Measurement:
         a.   Smoke: For the purpose of grading the density of emission of
smoke, the Ringelmann Chart, published and used by the United States Bureau of
Mines, shall be employed. For the purpose of determining smoke units, the
Ringelmann density reading shall be made at least every minute during the
period of observation. Each reading (Ringelmann number) shall be multiplied by
the time in minutes for which it is observed, and the products added together
to determine the total number of smoke units observed during the total period
of observation.
         b.   Particulate Matter: The total net rate of emission of particulate
matter within the boundaries of any lot shall be determined as follows:
Determine the maximum emission in pounds per hour from each source or emission
and divide this figure by the number of acres of lot areas, thereby obtaining
the hourly rate of emission in pounds per acre. Add together the individual
rates of emission as derived above to obtain the total rate of emission from
all sources of emission within the boundaries of the lot. It is this total that
shall not exceed the rate established in Table 4 above.
   D.   Odors: No continuous, frequent or repetitive emission of odors or odor-
causing substances which would be offensive beyond any property line of any
industrial use will be permitted. An odor emitted no more than fifteen (15)
minutes in any one day shall not be deemed as continuous, frequent or
repetitive within the meaning of these regulations. The existence of an odor
shall be presumed when analysis by a competent technician demonstrates that a
discernible odor is being emitted. Any process which may involve the creation
or emission of any odors shall be provided with a primary and a secondary
safeguard system so that control will be maintained if the primary safeguard
system fails. The rules and regulations of the Illinois Air Pollution Control
Board shall be complied with.
   E.   Radiation Hazards: The handling of radioactive materials, the discharge
of such materials into air and water, and the disposal of radioactive wastes
shall be in conformance with: 1) The applicable regulations of the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, and 2) the applicable regulations of any instrumentality
of the State.
   F.   Fire And Explosive Hazards:
      1.   The provisions of 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 210/3000 et seq.
shall be complied with, and no explosives shall be stored, used or manufactured
without first submitting to the Zoning Officer a certificate of compliance from
the Illinois Department of Mines and Minerals.
      2.   No gasoline or other inflammables or explosives shall be stored
unless the location, plans and construction conform to the laws and regulations
of the State and have the approval of the State Division of Fire Prevention of
the Department of Public Safety.
   G.   Glare And Heat: Every use and activity shall be so operated that it
does not emit heat or heated air beyond the boundary of the lot on which it is
located. No direct or sky-reflected glare shall emanate from any use or
activity so as to be visible at any point on or beyond the boundary of the lot
on which such use or activity is located. This restriction shall not apply to
signs otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Article or other applicable
ordinances of the Village, nor to activities of a temporary or of an emergency
nature. Night lighting necessary for safety and the protection of property is
excluded from this provision.
   H.   Electromagnetic Interference: There shall be no electromagnetic
interference that adversely affects the operation of any equipment other than
that belonging to the creator of such interference, or that does not conform to
the regulations of the Federal Communications Commission. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-
1996)
8-7E-17-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The Building Commissioner shall enforce the provisions of this Section. Upon
confirmation of a violation, enforcement and penalty provisions of Chapter 11
of this Title shall prevail. In addition, the Village may require the
installation, maintenance and operation by the offending industry of continuous
measuring or recording instruments to demonstrate the operation and to ensure
continuous compliance with the prescribed standards. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7E-18: TREE SURVEY AND PRESERVATION:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this Section to govern the
removal of trees and other significant vegetation and ensure the replacement of
trees in public and private properties within the Village.
   B.   Tree Survey: A tree survey plan indicating the location, size, genus
and species of all trees within the subject property shall be submitted to the
Village. The plan shall indicate all trees designated for preservation. Site
plan review shall not commence until the tree survey is submitted to the
Village. The tree survey shall include the following:
      1.   Topographic Survey: Existing and proposed contour elevations (one
foot intervals) to determine long-range adverse effects on plant materials
designated for preservation.
      2.   Implementation Techniques: The method used to ensure preservation of
retained vegetation shall be outlined in a written statement indicating care to
be taken during and after construction; including proximity of grading
operations to tree drip lines, installation of protective fencing and storage
of machinery and supplies.
   C.   Tree Removal Permit: All trees designated for removal having a trunk
diameter four inches (4") and greater measured six inches (6") above grade
shall require a tree removal permit. The permit shall be obtained from the
Village prior to final site plan approval. The permit application shall include
a statement giving the reasons for removal. The Village shall approve the
permit application if one or more of the following conditions is present:
      1.   The tree(s) is dead, diseased or in a weakened state.
      2.   The tree(s) poses a safety hazard to existing proposed buildings,
pedestrians and vehicles.
      3.   The tree(s) does not conform to recognized principles of good
horticultural practice.
      4.   The tree(s) is located in an area designated for a proposed building
(s), circulation or parking activity.
   D.   Trees Designated For Preservation: In the event trees designated for
preservation have been destroyed or removed as the result of construction
damage, negligence or other operations within the first five (5) years
following construction completion, such trees shall be replaced in accordance
with the following schedule:
Diameter Of      Number Of   Replacement
Existing Tree    Replacement Caliper (6"
(6" Above Grade) Trees       Above Grade)
Diameter Of      Number Of   Replacement
Existing Tree    Replacement Caliper (6"
(6" Above Grade) Trees       Above Grade)
4 in. –6 in.   6           4 in.
7 in. –12 in.  7           4 in.
13 in. 18 in.  8           4 in.
19 in. 24 in.  9           4 in.
25 in. 30 in.  10          4 in.
31 in. 36 in.  11          4 in.
36 in. +         12          4 in.
 
   E.   Species Of Trees: Replacement trees shall be limited to the following
species:
Acer (Maple excluding silver maple)
Carya (Hickory)
Celtis (Hackberry)
Fraxinus (Ash)
Ginko (Ginko)
Gleditsia (Honeylocust)
Ostrya (Hophornbeam)
Quercus (Oak)
Tilia (Linden)
Other species approved by the Village
   F.   Amended Landscape Plan: An amended landscape development plan shall be
submitted for approval by the Village. The plan shall indicate the location,
size, genus and species of all replacement trees. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
8-7E-19: LANDSCAPE DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this Section to govern the
landscape improvement of all proposed development to enhance, protect and
preserve the appearance, character, health, safety and welfare of the Village.
   B.   Plan Requirement: A landscape development plan shall be submitted to
the Village for all improvements requiring site and/or building review. The
plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include the location of all existing and
proposed structures, property lines, signs, walks, drives, loading areas,
dumpsters, lighting, parking areas, fences, walls, elevation changes, bicycle
parking facilities, freestanding electrical and mechanical equipment, water
features, landscape irrigation, plant material and other freestanding features.
   C.   Design Criteria/Right Of Way: Landscaping shall be provided within the
right of way where a property abuts a dedicated public street as follows:
      1.   Ground Layer: All unpaved areas within public rights of way shall be
graded and sodded.
      2.   Parkway Trees:
         a.   Quantity: Parkway trees shall be planted at a spacing equivalent
to eighty feet (80') on center. Clustering or staggering of trees may be
acceptable if approved by the Village.
         b.   Size: Parkway trees shall be planted at a minimum trunk size of
three inches (3") caliper as measured six inches (6") above grade.
         c.   Species: Parkway trees shall be limited to the following species,
unless otherwise approved by the Village:
Acer (Maple excluding silver maple)
Carya (Hickory)
Celtis (Hackberry)
Fraxinus (Ash)
Ginko (Ginko)
Gleditsia (Honeylocust)
Ostrya (Hophornbeam)
Quercus (Oak)
Tilia (Linden)
Other species approved by the Village
   D.   Design Criteria/Parking Lot Interior Landscaping: All parking lots
designed for twenty (20) or more spaces shall contain the following:
      1.   Quantity: Not less than three percent (3%) of the interior of all
parking areas shall be devoted to live landscaping enclosed by approved
curbing.
         a.   The area devoted to landscaping shall be dispersed throughout the
lot.
         b.   One shade tree shall be required for every one hundred fifty
(150) square feet of landscaped area. In the event of a fraction of a tree, if
a fraction is less than one-half (1/2) tree, the lower full number shall be
used. If a fraction is one-half (1/2) tree or greater, the higher number shall
be used.
      2.   Size: Interior landscape areas shall be a minimum of one hundred
sixty (160) square feet. Areas shall have not less than eight feet (8') in
width measured from back-of-curb to back-of- curb.
      3.   Cover: Not less than fifty percent (50%) of all interior planting
areas shall consist of live landscaping.
   E.   Design Criteria/Parking Lot Perimeter Landscaping:
      1.   Front Yards: At the lot line, every lot shall have a minimum of a
ten foot (10') front landscaped yard. In addition, it shall be the
responsibility of the owner of any lot seeking a building permit to landscape
the right of way of any street from the curb of said street to the front lot
line. There shall be no parking or parking drives permitted in the front yards.
Access drives may cross the front yard where required. All curb cuts shall be
designed so as to create a means of ingress and egress for each lot consistent
with efficient traffic patterns and to not unnecessarily hinder traffic flow to
and from other lots. Curb cuts shall be limited to one for each eighty feet
(80') of street frontage. A minimum distance of one hundred feet (100') on
center is required between all access drives on a lot.
      2.   Corner Yards:
         a.   All parking lots located across a dedicated right of way from
property zoned for residential use shall be screened from adjacent properties
by a continuous shrub buffer, not less than three feet (3') in height. Such
landscaping shall include earth berms where feasible, shade, ornamental and
evergreen trees.
         b.   All parking lots located across a dedicated right of way from
properties zoned for nonresidential use shall be landscaped with a shrub buffer
covering not less than twenty five percent (25%) of the street frontage at a
height of not less than three feet (3'). Such landscaping shall include earth
berms where feasible, shade, ornamental and evergreen trees.
         c.   Except where landscaped beds or plant materials are present, all
front and corner yards shall be sodded or seeded.
      3.   Rear And Side Yards:
         a.   All parking lots located adjacent to properties zoned for
residential use shall be buffered by a solid landscape screen at a minimum
height of six feet (6'). The screen shall consist of evergreen or deciduous
shrubs, or a combination of both as approved by the Village. Such screen shall
include earth berms, deciduous, evergreen or ornamental trees where feasible. A
six foot (6') solid wood fence may be substituted for plant material if
approved by the Village. Shade trees shall be planted the equivalent of eighty
feet (80') on center at a caliper of not less than three inches (3"), measured
six inches (6") above grade. Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved by
the Village.
         b.   All parking lots abutting properties zoned for nonresidential use
shall be buffered from adjacent properties by plant material covering not less
than twenty five percent (25%) of the frontage at a minimum height of three
feet (3'). Such screen shall also include earth berms where feasible,
deciduous, evergreen and ornamental trees. Shade trees shall be planted the
equivalent of eighty feet (80') on center along the buffer, at a caliper of not
less than three inches (3"), measured six inches (6") above grade. Trees may be
clustered or staggered if approved by the Village.
         c.   Except where landscape beds or plant materials are present, all
side and rear yards shall be sodded or seeded.
         d.   All parking lots or driveways shall be located a minimum of ten
feet (10') from all side and rear property lines or five feet (5') from any
drainage easements along such property lines, whichever is greater.
   F.   Design Criteria/Building Foundation Planting:
      1.   Size: A minimum setback of ten feet (10') in width adjacent to the
building shall be devoted to landscaping, except where walks, parking lots and
service drives are required.
      2.   Materials:
         a.   Foundation planting shall consist of a combination of deciduous,
evergreen and ornamental trees, deciduous and evergreen shrubs. Ground layer,
except where plantings exist, shall consist of sod or ground layer.
         b.   All mechanical and electrical equipment, dumpsters, loading areas
and bicycle racks shall be screened from public view with a solid evergreen
hedge or fence.
   G.   Design Criteria/Site Perimeter Landscaping: All plans submitted for
review shall include perimeter landscaping as follows:
      1.   Properties Abutting Residential Property:
         a.   All properties located adjacent to properties zoned for
residential use shall be screened from view with a continuous solid screen not
less than six feet (6') in height. The screen shall consist of earth berms, a
solid wood fence six feet (6') in height, or other barrier acceptable to the
Village.
         b.   Deciduous shade trees shall be planted the equivalent of one
hundred feet (100') on center. Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved
by the Village.
         c.   In addition to the barrier and shade trees, the Village may
require additional plant materials including deciduous, evergreen and flowering
trees, ornamental and evergreen shrubs.
         d.   Ground layer materials, unless occupied by plant materials, shall
be sodded or seeded.
      2.   Properties Abutting Nonresidential Property:
         a.   All properties abutting property zoned for nonresidential use
shall include the equivalent of one shade tree, one hundred feet (100') on
center. Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved by the Village.
         b.   In addition, the Village may require additional landscaping
consisting of earth berms, evergreen, deciduous and ornamental trees, deciduous
and evergreen shrubs.
         c.   All ground layer material, unless occupied by plant material,
shall be sodded or seeded.
   H.   Installation And Maintenance:
      1.   Installation:
         a.   Site preparation work shall not be undertaken until a certificate
of acceptance is issued for the landscape development plan.
         b.   All landscaping shall be installed in conformance with procedures
established by the American Association of Nurserymen.
         c.   Plant material shall be consistent with all requirements set
forth in the "American Standard for Nursery Stock" published by the American
Association of Nurserymen, latest edition.
         d.   Prior to construction, the owner shall submit a performance and
material and labor payment bond in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of
the estimated cost of landscape construction, in a form acceptable to the
Village. The bond shall also insure completion of the work, repair of all
damages caused by the owner; and replacement of all items not in conformance
with the approved landscape development plan.
         e.   Prior to issuance of any occupancy permit, the owner must submit
evidence of substantial completion of the landscape work. In the event of
delays caused by environmental conditions, the owner may present a performance
bond in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of
landscaping and irrigation, or a letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
Village for receipt of a temporary occupancy permit. The temporary permit will
be valid for a period of one hundred fifty (150) days.
      2.   Maintenance: The owner shall submit a detailed plan of maintenance
procedures to be used to protect and promote the growth of the approved
plantings and landscaping materials for a period of at least two (2) full
growing seasons after completion of all landscaping. The owner shall provide a
bond or letter of credit in a sum equal to ten percent (10%) of the estimated
cost of the landscape construction and plantings to guarantee that the plan of
maintenance is followed and that the plantings are alive and growing at the end
of the second growing season. The bond or letter of credit shall be in the same
form as is provided for the maintenance of accepted subdivision improvement
under the Subdivision Ordinance of the Village 1 . The bond or letter of credit
shall be submitted and approved before the Village issues an occupancy permit
for the building upon the premises being landscaped.
      3.   Replacement: The owner shall replace all dead material within the
next growing season. (Ord. 96-18, 8-28-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
ARTICLE F. I INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-7F-1: Purpose
8-7F-2: Classification Criteria
8-7F-3: Design Criteria
8-7F-4: Permitted Principal Uses
8-7F-5: Permitted Freestanding Or Attached Accessory Structures
8-7F-6: Permitted Nonstructural Accessory Uses
8-7F-7: Special Uses
8-7F-8: Lot And Bulk Standards
8-7F-9: Signs
8-7F-10: Traffic Directional Signs
8-7F-11: Exterior Lighting
8-7F-12: Off Street Parking
8-7F-13: Off Street Loading
8-7F-14: Design Review
8-7F-15: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
8-7F-16: Tree Survey Or Inventory And Preservation
8-7F-17: Landscape Development Plan
8-7F-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Use: The purpose of the I institutional district is to govern the
planning, location and development of certain properties within the zoning
jurisdiction of the village for institutional uses which offer a wide range of
services and related uses including senior housing uses and related mixed use
development that may include, but is not limited to, medical office and other
office uses, neighborhood type retail and service uses. Such uses and
development shall be in harmony with the character of the village.
   B.   Tax Base And Employment Opportunities: The I institutional district is
provided as a district where some institutional uses may be located that may,
or may not, be subject to property taxes so as not to require the location of
these institutional type uses in other zoning districts in the village that may
be able to otherwise enhance the property tax base of local taxing
jurisdictions. The I institutional district may have some uses that are subject
to property taxes as well as retail sales tax generating uses and will offer an
increased range of employment opportunities for the residents of the community.
(Ord. 2014-O-13, 8-27-2014)
8-7F-2: CLASSIFICATION CRITERIA:
For a parcel of land to qualify for consideration for classification as an I
institutional district, it must meet the following planning criteria:
   A.   Area: Any area which is zoned I institutional district should not be
less than ten (10) acres, excluding adjoining street rights of way. Such sites
may be subdivided in accord with the provisions of the subdivision regulations
of the village.
   B.   Adjoining Uses: I institutional districts shall be located so as to be
abutting a regional arterial roadway that can provide primary access for the
uses in the I institutional district and shall not be located in an area where
primary access is necessary from a local street internal to residential areas
of the village. Where an I institutional district is adjacent to residential
uses, there shall be landscaped areas as provided in the I institutional
district.
   C.   Utilities: All uses established in the I institutional district must be
served by sanitary sewer facilities. Individual private wells are not
permitted. Potable water shall be provided by a community water system. All
utilities shall be installed underground and shall provide for appropriate
safety measures or other controls, whether of a temporary or permanent nature,
as set forth by village, county, state or federal government agencies. Any
connection of underground utilities involving crossing a street shall be
accomplished only by augering and casing the carrier pipe.
   D.   Location: The I institutional district shall only be located on
property that abuts a regional arterial roadway as shown in the village's
comprehensive plan. (Ord. 2014-O-13, 8-27-2014)
8-7F-3: DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Site Development And Building Character: Site planning and development
in an I institutional district and buildings constructed in it shall be
carefully planned and designed to promote the upgrading and redevelopment of
the district. All construction and building plans shall be submitted for review
and approval by the village, as hereinafter provided in section
8-7F-14 of this article, to assure such compatibility. Notwithstanding that a
development or building proposal may appear to meet the specific improvement or
use criteria set forth in this article, the approval provided for in section
8-7F-14 of this article shall also require that the proposal preserve the
aesthetic values of the district and the area surrounding it.
   B.   Landscaping: In addition to meeting the foregoing criteria for approval
of improvements, landscaping shall be required which conforms to those criteria
and which enhances the topographical and natural features of the site such as
water features, unique natural areas, wooded areas, tree masses, views and
vistas.
   C.   Signage: Signs, street graphics and related identity symbols shall
harmonize with the overall character of the parcel's development and shall
clearly be incidental to the total visual impact of the development.
   D.   Outside Storage: Any articles, goods or materials to be stored other
than in a building must be approved as part of a special use review and
approval shall be properly screened from streets and adjacent lots by
landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or screening material that
is compatible with the exterior building materials.
   E.   Screening Of Equipment And Utilities: All equipment relating to the use
or operation of a building, whether adjacent to the building, attached to a
building wall or roof mounted, including electrical equipment or transformers,
heating, air conditioning or ventilating equipment, telephone or communications
equipment, or storage tanks, shall be properly screened from streets and
adjacent lots by landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or
screening material that is compatible with the exterior building materials.
   F.   Multiple Buildings Or Structures: When multiple buildings or structures
are planned as part of a single ownership project, or mixed use development,
all buildings or structures shall be of similar, compatible design and
materials. (Ord. 2014-O-13, 8-27-2014)
8-7F-4: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
Permitted principal uses shall only be the following:
Agriculture.
Botanical garden.
Public open land, refuge or preserve. (Ord. 2014-O-13, 8-27-2014)
8-7F-5: PERMITTED FREESTANDING OR ATTACHED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
Permitted freestanding or attached accessory structures shall only be allowed
as part of a special use review and approval. (Ord. 2014-O-13, 8-27-2014)
8-7F-6: PERMITTED NONSTRUCTURAL ACCESSORY USES:
A nonstructural accessory use shall not be established prior to the principal
use. A nonstructural use that is accessory to a listed special use in this I
institutional district, shall only be allowed as part of a special use review
and approval. (Ord. 2014-O-13, 8-27-2014)
8-7F-7: SPECIAL USES:
In order to accomplish the general purpose of this article, certain unusual
uses need special consideration. They require special regulations to achieve
compatibility with existing development and zoning. Often the effects of these
uses on the surrounding environment cannot be foreseen until a specific site
has been proposed. They must be given special consideration and located
relative to the existing development pattern. They are not permitted
automatically but are subject to the issuance of a special use permit as
provided in section
8-10-1 of this title and subject to the standards set forth herein and such
additional standards or conditions as may be established by the village at the
time of approval of a special use permit.
   A.   Categories: Such special permit uses fall into two (2) categories:
      1.   Uses operated either by a public agency or publicly related utility,
or uses traditionally associated with a public interest.
      2.   Uses entirely private in character but of such a nature that the
operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact upon
neighboring property or public facilities, and including the following:
Cemetery.
Childcare facility.
Church or other place of religious worship.
Civic buildings.
Conference centers.
Conservation clubs.
Fire and police stations.
Fraternal organizations.
Governmental buildings and uses.
Public parks.
Schools.
Senior housing and mixed use developments.
   B.   Special Standards: In addition to the general provisions for special
uses as set forth in subsection A of this section and all other applicable
standards of this article, the following special standards shall be met for the
special uses listed below:
      1.   Childcare facility:
         a.   Application for permission to construct or operate a childcare
facility shall be accompanied by copies of all valid permits issued and
required by the state of Illinois, department of child and family services, and
any other applicable county, state or federal agency. If such permits cannot be
obtained prior to the time of application, the application shall be accompanied
by a report from the appropriate licensing agency, if any, stating the
licensing requirements and a statement as to how the applicant intends to meet
these requirements.
         b.   Applications for permission to construct or operate a childcare
facility shall be accompanied by a report and recommendation from the Lake
County health department.
         c.   There shall be a minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of safe
outdoor play area for every child for which the facility is licensed to
accommodate.
         d.   There shall be a minimum of thirty five (35) square feet of
usable indoor floor area for every child for which the facility is licensed to
accommodate. Usable floor area does not include administrative space, storage
areas, bathrooms, hallways, kitchen, or other areas that are not used for
direct activities.
         e.   All outdoor play areas shall be fenced.
         f.   No outdoor play apparatus or play field shall be located in any
required buffer yard or next to a pond, railroad track, street or other hazard.
         g.   Nothing contained within this article shall prohibit the
establishment or operation of a noncommercial child daycare facility which has
been licensed by the state and is accessory and incidental to a principal use.
As a noncommercial accessory use, the daycare facility shall accommodate only
the children of persons employed on the premises or shall accommodate children
only on an irregular basis solely for the convenience of the patrons of the
principal use.
      2.   Senior housing mixed use development:
         a.   The minimum area for a site for a senior housing and mixed use
development shall be ten (10) acres;
         b.   The senior housing development shall be for independent senior
living units by residents that are primarily over fifty five (55) years in age,
and the remaining residential units may be for assisted care senior living
units or nursing care senior units as found consistent with the village of
Green Oaks standards for a special use;
         c.   The site for the senior housing and mixed use development is
found to be physically and environmentally suitable for development in the I
institutional district as established in special use hearings required for
approval, and the site must be found to be able to take access from a regional
arterial roadway as identified in the village's comprehensive plan and cannot
take any access from a local street or roadway except for purposefully designed
emergency access points only;
         d.   The buildings in the senior housing and mixed use development
shall be so located adjacent to any property line that is not part of the
subject site so as to meet or exceed the minimum yards or setback requirements
of the I institutional district and more than one principal building may be
included as part of the senior housing and mixed use development special use
approval provided that the internal setbacks between buildings are found to be
necessary or desirable to the senior housing and mixed use development and to
the community;
         e.   The building coverage for the building or buildings in the senior
housing and mixed use development shall not exceed the building coverage
standard of the I institutional district, unless modified as part of the
special use and approval process and provided there is the inclusion of
amenities such as walking paths, seating areas and other amenities that may
relate to the needs of the residents of the senior housing and mixed use
development as found to be desirable as part of the special use approval
process;
         f.   The building height as part of the senior housing and mixed use
development shall not exceed the building height standard of the I
institutional district including all rooftop equipment and the screening of any
rooftop equipment shall be part of the special use review and approval process;
         g.   A traffic study including a parking demand study section shall be
prepared by a qualified traffic engineer and submitted as part of the
supporting documents for a senior housing and mixed use development, special
use application. Unless through the special use review and approval process the
plan commission recommends and the village board approves parking standards
that are found to be appropriate for the parking demand characteristic of the
specific senior housing and mixed use development, the following parking
standards shall apply: For the first one hundred (100) units in a building for
both independent and assisted living senior housing units: 0.75 parking spaces
per unit, and for each unit above those first one hundred (100) units: 0.5
parking spaces for each unit. For any independent senior housing units that are
not part of a building with assisted living units either an attached one car
garage with a driveway to the garage that can accommodate one additional
parking space must be provided for each unit, or a minimum of 1.75 parking
spaces per unit must be provided in a parking lot that is adjacent to the
independent living units and is reviewed and approved as part of the specific
special use.
Also as part of the traffic study or as part of the applicant's other
submissions, information must be presented regarding emergency vehicle access
from the area roadways and internal circulation and access to all buildings.
         h.   A site plan and supporting documents shall be submitted and
approved and incorporated as a condition of the special use permit;
         i.   A list of proposed uses to be allowed and a list of uses to be
prohibited as part of the mixed use area of the special use must be submitted
with the application for the senior housing and mixed use development and the
uses are subject to modification as part of the special use review and approval
process;
         j.   A senior housing and mixed use development in the I institutional
district shall be served by public sanitary sewers and public water;
         k.   Such other and further conditions or requirements as the village
corporate authorities may reasonably establish when permitting the development
of a particular site for a senior housing and mixed use development. (Ord.
2014-O-13, 8-27-2014)
8-7F-8: LOT AND BULK STANDARDS:
   A.   Lot Area: Every lot or parcel shall have a minimum area of ten thousand
(10,000) square feet. Any nonconforming lot or parcel shall not be entitled to
be used as a principal building site, but may be used in conjunction with an
adjacent conforming lot or parcel for accessory uses.
   B.   Lot Frontage: Every lot or parcel shall have a minimum street frontage
of fifty feet (50') measured at the front lot line. Any nonconforming lot or
parcel shall not be entitled to be used as a principal building site, but may
be used in conjunction with an adjacent conforming lot or parcel for accessory
uses.
   C.   Building Coverage: Not more than thirty percent (30%) of the area of a
lot may be covered by all buildings and structures.
   D.   Floor Area: The total floor area of all buildings and structures on a
lot shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot.
   E.   Maximum Impervious Surface Ratio: The maximum impervious surface,
including buildings and paved areas, on a lot shall not exceed forty percent
(40%) of the area of the lot.
   F.   Building Setbacks: The required minimum setbacks from the property line
of a lot are set forth below:
      1.   Front Yard: Thirty feet (30') for buildings of less than thirty feet
(30') in height. For buildings of greater than thirty feet (30') in height
additional setback shall be required as part of the special use review and
approval process.
      2.   Side Yard: Twelve feet (12'). Side yards are not required in this
district if the proposed construction meets fire codes and if the lot line is
not a zoning boundary line or a street, provided that there is acceptable
access to all sides of the building that is approved as part of the special use
review and approval process.
      3.   Side Yard Adjoining A Street: Thirty feet (30') for buildings of
less than thirty feet (30') in height. For buildings of greater than thirty
feet (30') in height, additional setback shall be required as part of the
special use review and approval process.
      4.   Rear Yard: Twenty five feet (25') for buildings of less than thirty
feet (30') in height. For buildings of greater than thirty feet (30') in
height, additional setback shall be required as part of the special use review
and approval process.
      5.   Abutting Residential: Twenty five feet (25') for buildings of less
than thirty feet (30') in height. For buildings of greater than thirty feet
(30') in height, additional setback shall be required as part of the special
use review and approval process.
   G.   Parking Setbacks: The required minimum setbacks from the property line
of a lot are set forth below:
      1.   Front yard: Twenty five feet (25') and setback may be modified as
part of the special use review and approval process.
      2.   Side yard: Ten feet (10') and setback may be modified as part of the
special use review and approval process.
      3.   Side yard adjoining a street: Twenty five feet (25') and setback may
be modified as part of the special use review and approval process.
      4.   Rear yard: Fifteen feet (15') and setback may be modified as part of
the special use review and approval process. (Ord. 2014-O-13, 8-27-2014)
   H.   Building Height: No principal building or structure shall exceed sixty
six feet (66') or five (5) stories in height including fully enclosed rooftop
mechanical equipment penthouses unless the height is modified as part of the
special use review and approval process provided that for each one foot (1') of
building height over thirty feet (30'), an additional five feet (5') of yard or
setback from a property line is provided. Opaque screening of all rooftop
equipment is required and the screening shall be part of the special use review
and approval process. (Ord. 2015-O-02, 1-28-2015)
8-7F-9: SIGNS:
All signs shall meet the requirements of the sign ordinance, title 11 of this
code or may be modified as part of the special use review and approval process.
(Ord. 2014-O-13, 8-27-2014)
8-7F-10: TRAFFIC DIRECTIONAL SIGNS:
Traffic directional signs shall be required to indicate and control the flow of
traffic and ingress and egress routes on each lot or parcel. All such signs
shall be of a size and type and otherwise meet all the uniform standards for
traffic control signs of the Illinois department of transportation. (Ord. 2014-
O-13, 8-27-2014)
8-7F-11: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
Exterior lighting shall not produce glare onto adjacent properties and exterior
lighting shall be included in the special use review and approval process.
(Ord. 2014-O-13, 8-27-2014)
8-7F-12: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Required Parking: No on street parking shall be permitted in any I
institutional district. All uses in the district shall be provided with off
street parking designed to provide for one hundred percent (100%) of the
required parking for the proposed use at peak occupancy as determined by a
traffic and parking study as part of the special use review and approval
process.
   B.   Multiple Uses: If multiple uses on a lot vary in their parking
requirements, the number of parking spaces shall be the sum of the individual
requirements for each use. However, where peak parking requirements occur at
distinctly different times of the day or week, the total number of spaces may
be reduced. In no case shall the total number of spaces be less than the hourly
peak concentration of the combined uses on the site.
   C.   Surface: All parking facilities, access driveways and aisles, and other
internal vehicular circulation shall be paved. (Ord. 2014-O-13, 8-27-2014)
   D.   Number Of Spaces: The following are the minimum of off street parking
spaces required to be built or reserved for each use within the I institutional
district:
      1.   Retail, Office Service And Institutional Uses: All retail, office
service and institutional uses other than senior housing shall provide one
parking space per three hundred (300) square feet of floor area. The number of
parking spaces may be modified as part of a special use review and approval
process.
      2.   Senior Housing: For the first one hundred (100) units in a building
for senior housing units: 0.75 parking spaces per unit, and for each unit above
those first one hundred (100) units: 0.5 parking spaces for each unit. For any
independent senior housing units that are not part of a building with assisted
living units either an attached one car garage with a driveway to the garage
that can accommodate one additional parking space must be provided for each
unit, or a minimum of 1.75 parking spaces per unit must be provided in a
parking lot that is adjacent to the independent living units and is reviewed
and approved as part of the specific special use. (Ord. 2015-O-02, 1-28-2015)
8-7F-13: OFF STREET LOADING:
All off street loading areas and facilities uses shall only be allowed when
included as part of a special use review and approval. (Ord. 2015-O-02, 1-28-
2015)
8-7F-14: DESIGN REVIEW:
No building, improvement or structure shall be erected in the district that is
not in compliance with design criteria set forth in section
8-7F-3 of this article or as modified as part of the special use review and
approval process. No permit shall be issued for any building, improvement or
structure unless it has first been approved as complying with said design
criteria by the plan commission of the village and by the village board as
herein provided. In the event that the plan commission rejects or fails to
approve any plans submitted for design review within forty five (45) days after
submission, the person submitting such plans may appeal from said rejection or
failure to approve in the same manner as herein provided for appeals from the
decisions of officers of the village to the board of appeals of the village, as
provided in section
8-11-5 of this title. If the plan commission rejects any plan, it shall state
the reason for rejection in writing.
   A.   Procedure: Prior to obtaining a building permit for any new
construction in the I institutional district, three (3) sets of preliminary
design plans shall be submitted to the building department along with the
preliminary plan review fee. As otherwise required, building permits for all
exterior modifications or exterior tenant improvements and occupancy permits
for all changes in tenancy shall not be subject to the design review by the
plan commission unless either of these changes increases the number of parking
spaces required under this article.
   B.   Building Department Review: The building commissioner shall review the
submitted preliminary design plans to determine if they are complete and meet
the basic zoning, building and site development standards of the village and
any standards included with the special use review and approval process.
   C.   Plan Commission Review: The plans shall be submitted to the village
plan commission for design review and comment and may be part of the special
use review and approval process. The plan commission shall determine if the
proposed site development, landscaping, building design and signs satisfy the
design criteria standards of this article. The plan shall then be submitted to
the village board at a regular meeting for final approval. Upon approval of the
preliminary design plans, one set of approved plans shall be returned to the
applicant, one set shall be placed on file with the building department, and
one set shall be placed on file with the plan commission. (Ord. 2014-O-13, 8-
27-2014)
   D.   Building Permits: No building permit shall be issued that is not in
compliance with the approved preliminary design plans. (Ord. 2015-O-02, 1-28-
2015)
   E.   Sign Plans: A dimensioned drawing of all proposed temporary and
permanent signs at a scale of one inch equals one foot (1" = 1') or larger,
indicating the following:
      1.   Sign materials, construction and supporting structure. Structural
calculations shall also be required for all freestanding signs of one hundred
(100) square feet or larger surface area.
      2.   Lettering and graphic information contents.
      3.   Colors and textures.
      4.   Method of illumination.
      5.   At the applicant's option, any other information, material samples
or drawings which the applicant feels may explain the sign design concept.
(Ord. 2014-O-13, 8-27-2014)
8-7F-15: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
Before any building or other structure, or part thereof, shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, moved or structurally altered, a building
permit shall be obtained. Before the use of any building, structure or land is
changed, including any change in tenancy, an occupancy permit shall be
obtained. Any use or occupancy, which was not discontinued during any
alteration work, shall be discontinued within thirty (30) days after the
completion of the alteration if a new occupancy permit is not issued. (Ord.
2014-O-13, 8-27-2014)
8-7F-16: TREE SURVEY OR INVENTORY AND PRESERVATION:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this section to govern the
removal of trees and other significant vegetation and ensure the replacement of
trees in public and private properties within the village.
   B.   Tree Survey: As part of the special use review and approval process a
tree survey or tree inventory indicating the location, size, genus and species
of all trees within the subject property shall be submitted to the village. The
plan shall indicate all trees designated for preservation. Site plan review
shall not commence until the tree survey is submitted to the village. The tree
survey shall include the following:
      1.   Topographic Survey: Existing and proposed contour elevations to
determine long range adverse effects on plant materials designated for
preservation.
      2.   Implementation Techniques: The method used to ensure preservation of
retained vegetation shall be outlined in a written statement indicating care to
be taken during and after construction; including proximity of grading
operations to tree drip lines, installation of protective fencing and storage
of machinery and supplies.
   C.   Tree Removal Permit: As part of the special use review and approval
process trees designated for removal having a trunk diameter four inches (4")
and greater measured six inches (6") above grade shall require a tree removal
permit. The permit shall be obtained from the village prior to final site plan
approval. The permit application shall include a statement giving the reasons
for removal. The village shall approve the permit application if one or more of
the following conditions is present:
      1.   The tree(s) is dead, diseased or in a weakened state.
      2.   The tree(s) poses a safety hazard to existing proposed buildings,
pedestrians and vehicles.
      3.   The tree(s) does not conform to recognized principles of good
horticultural practice.
      4.   The tree(s) is located in an area designated for a proposed building
(s), circulation or parking activity. (Ord. 2014-O-13, 8-27-2014)
   D.   Trees Designated For Preservation: In the event trees designated for
preservation have been destroyed or removed as the result of construction
damage, negligence or other operations within the first five (5) years
following construction completion, such trees shall be replaced in accordance
with the following schedule or as modified as part of the special use review
and approval process:
Diameter Of      Number Of         Replacement Caliper
Existing Tree    Replacement Trees (6" Above Grade)
(6" Above Grade)
Diameter Of      Number Of         Replacement Caliper
Existing Tree    Replacement Trees (6" Above Grade)
(6" Above Grade)
   4" to 6"   6                 4"
   7" to 12"  7                 4"
   13" to 18" 8                 4"
   19" to 24" 9                 4"
   25" to 30" 10                4"
   31" to 36" 11                4"
   36" +      12                4"
 
   E.   Species Of Trees: Replacement trees shall be limited to the following
species:
Acer (maple excluding silver)
Carya (hickory)
Celtis (hackberry)
Ginkgo (ginkgo) (male only)
Gleditsia (honey locust)
Ostrya (hop hornbeam)
Quercus (oak)
Tilia (linden)
Other species approved by the village. (Ord. 2015-O-02, 1-28-2015)
   F.   Amended Landscape Plan: An amended landscape development plan shall be
submitted for approval by the village. The plan shall indicate the location,
size, genus and species of all replacement trees. (Ord. 2014-O-13, 8-27-2014)
8-7F-17: LANDSCAPE DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this section to govern the
landscape improvement of all proposed development to enhance, protect and
preserve the appearance, character, health, safety and welfare of the village
and a landscape development plan shall be included in the special use review
and approval process. (Ord. 2014-O-13, 8-27-2014)
ARTICLE G. MX MIXED-USE DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-7G-1: Purpose
8-7G-2: Classification Criteria
8-7G-3: Design Criteria
8-7G-4: Permitted Principal Uses
8-7G-5: Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
8-7G-6: Special Uses
8-7G-7: Lot And Bulk Standards
8-7G-8: Signs
8-7G-9: Exterior Lighting
8-7G-10: Off-Street Parking Referenced To Permitted Uses
8-7G-11: Off-Street Loading
8-7G-12: Design Review
8-7G-13: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
8-7G-14: Tree Survey And Preservation
8-7G-15: Landscape Development Plan
8-7G-16: Industrial Performance Standards And Procedures
8-7G-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Unified Use: The MX Mixed-Use District is designed to govern the
planning, location, and development of certain properties within the zoning
jurisdiction of the Village in order to promote a unified mix of uses which
provide economic diversity and are in harmony with the character of the area
where the mixed-use development will be located.
   B.   Tax Base And Employment Opportunities: The MX Mixed-Use District is
provided to enhance the Property Tax base of local taxing jurisdictions, and to
provide a greater variety of employment opportunities for the residents of the
community and the overall area. (Ord. 2018-O-08, 11-28-2018)
8-7G-2: CLASSIFICATION CRITERIA:
For a parcel of land to qualify for consideration for classification as an MX
Mixed-Use District, it must meet the following planning criteria:
   A.   Area: Any area which is zoned MX Mixed-Use District should not be less
than thirty (30) acres, excluding adjoining street rights-of-way. Such sites
may be subdivided in accord with the provisions of the subdivision regulations
of the Village, and consistent with the special use approval.
   B.   Access: The MX Mixed-Use District shall only be located where the
primary access can be from a regional arterial roadway as identified in the
Village's Comprehensive Plan.
   C.   Adjoining Uses: MX Mixed-Use Districts are intended to be located in
transitional areas where boundaries of the district are adjacent to commercial,
and industrial uses and zoning districts; and are separated from residential
uses and zoning by various buffer areas such as but not limited to regional
controlled access roadways, railroad tracks or other similar significant buffer
areas.
   D.   Utilities: All uses established in the MX District must be served by
sanitary sewer facilities. Individual private wells are not permitted. Potable
water shall be provided by a community water system.
   E.   Location: The MX Mixed-Use District shall only be located east of the
Tri-State Tollway (U.S. Interstate 94). (Ord. 2018-O-08, 11-28-2018)
8-7G-3: DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Site Development And Building Character: Site planning and development
in a MX Mixed-Use District and buildings constructed in it shall be carefully
planned and designed to promote a unified mix of uses with opportunities for
greater flexibility in the development, walkability, and redevelopment of the
district. Common brick, concrete block, split face block, corrugated metal or
pre-engineered metals installed with exposed fasteners are prohibited on any
building exterior wall.
   B.   Landscaping: In addition to meeting the foregoing criteria for approval
of improvements, landscaping shall be required which conforms to those criteria
and which enhances the topographical and natural features of the site such as
water features, unique natural areas, wooded areas, tree masses, views and
vistas.
   C.   Signage: See title 11, "Sign Regulations", of this Code for the signage
requirements.
   D.   Screening Of Equipment And Utilities: Equipment, goods, materials, or
storage relating to the use or operation of a building, whether adjacent to the
building, attached to a building wall or roof-mounted, including electrical
equipment or transformers, heating, air-conditioning or ventilating equipment,
telephone or communications equipment, or storage tanks, shall be properly
screened from views from abutting streets and adjacent lots by landscaped
berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or screening material that is
compatible with the exterior building materials. If roof mounted equipment is
located on a roof such that it may not be visible from abutting streets or
adjacent properties, then departures from the above screening requirements may
be considered during design review per section
8-7G-12 of this article.
   E.   Multiple Buildings Or Structures: When multiple buildings or structures
are planned as part of a single ownership project, or mixed-use development,
all buildings or structures shall be of similar, compatible design and
materials. (Ord. 2018-O-08, 11-28-2018)
8-7G-4: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
   A.   Permitted principal uses shall only be the following:
Agriculture.
Commercial or industrial uses but only as a part of an approved special use for
a mixed-use development. (Ord. 2018-O-08, 11-28-2018)
8-7G-5: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Freestanding Or Attached Accessory Structures: Permitted freestanding
or attached accessory structures shall only be allowed as part of a special use
permit or final plan review and approval.
   B.   Permitted Nonstructural Accessory Uses: A nonstructural accessory use
shall not be established prior to the principal use. (Ord. 2018-O-08, 11-28-
2018)
8-7G-6: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   In order to accomplish the general purpose of this article, certain
unusual or mix of uses need special consideration. They require special
regulations to achieve compatibility with existing development and zoning.
Often the effects of these uses on the surrounding environment cannot be
foreseen until a specific site for the Mixed-Use District has been proposed.
The proposed mix of uses may need to be given special considerations
considering their location relative to the existing and planned development
pattern. The special use is not permitted automatically but shall be subject to
the issuance of a special use permit as provided in this title and subject to
the standards set forth herein and such additional standards or conditions as
may be established by the Village at the time of approval of a special use
permit. The special use permit may provide for certain uses in various
locations on a specific property where those uses may be considered as
permitted uses at those locations as part of the overall special use approval,
and those permitted uses will be subject to the additional standards or
conditions as may have been established for the special use.
   B.   Permitted special uses shall only be the following:
Mixed-use development.
      1.   Mixed-Use Development: A mixed-use development, or any designated
use area of the subject property may include departures from the lot and bulk
standards and other provisions of this district but only when specifically
noted as being part of the final plan approval and the departures are found to
be consistent with the overall design of the specific mixed-use development.
The site for the mixed-use development must be physically and environmentally
suitable for development as established in special use hearings required for
approval, and the principal access for the mixed-use development must be found
to be able to take access from a regional arterial roadway.
         a.   All business activity and storage of materials shall be conducted
or stored within a completely enclosed building unless specifically noted as
being part of the final plan approval and the departures are found to be
consistent with the overall design of the specific mixed-use development.
         b.   All mixed-use developments shall follow the procedures and
requirements set forth in this section.
      2.   Purpose: The applicant for a mixed-use development shall submit a
General Development Plan in accordance with this section. This step is intended
to make possible a determination for the basic acceptability of the proposed
mixed-use development in terms of its character, use pattern, and intensity of
use, as well as its economic, environmental, service impact, and such other
site-specific factors that would be relevant for basic decisions prior to the
preparation of final submittal documents for the proposed mixed-use
development. After the approval of the special use, General Development Plan
additional submittals will be required for review of any final plans for any of
the permitted uses that may have been approved as part of the special use
permit for various areas of the subject property. The review of these final
plans shall be subject to the design review provisions of section
8-7G-12 of this article.
      3.   Written Documents: Written documents to be included with the
application for a proposed mixed-use development shall include the following:
         a.   Proposed Annexation Agreement: A proposed annexation agreement,
if any property in the overall mixed-use development is unincorporated at the
time of the filing of the application for the special use permit.
         b.   Re-Classification: An application for re-classification of the
underlying zoning district or districts in which the property in the proposed
mixed-use is situated to the MX Mixed-Use District.
         c.   Proposed Uses: A written use list of the proposed uses that may
be allowed in the individual development land use areas.
         d.   Certain Maps: Maps which show the surrounding land uses to
demonstrate the relationship of the mixed-use development to existing and
proposed adjoining uses.
         e.   Boundary Line Survey: A boundary line survey of the subject
property which shall be prepared and certified by a registered land surveyor,
in accordance with the Illinois Land Survey Standards, along with a legal
description and a statement of the easements, covenants, and restrictions of
record.
         f.   Topographic Character: The existing topographic character of the
land with contours shown at intervals not greater than two feet (2') with
topographic data referring to the USGS North American Datum - Mean Sea Level
Elevation.
         g.   Site Analysis: A site analysis of the property including:
            (1)   Existing land uses both on the site and immediately adjacent
to it.
            (2)   Scenic views.
            (3)   Wooded areas.
            (4)   Potential soil problem areas.
            (5)   Floodplain areas.
            (6)   Streams, drainage ditches, and standing water.
            (7)   General directions of stormwater run-off across the property.
            (8)   Any other unique physical features.
         h.   Proposed Land Use Plan: A proposed land use plan which shall be
drawn upon a print of the topographic of the site which shall show the
following:
            (1)   Name of the proposed mixed-use development.
            (2)   Location of the subject site by section, township and range,
or by other approved legal description, and common street address or location.
            (3)   Name and address of the site planner and/or developer.
            (4)   Name and address of the owner and/or developer.
            (5)   Scale, north arrow, and date.
            (6)   Design features information which shall show:
   (A) Right-of-way alignments, widths, and names of all streets.
   (B) Location of all commercial lots and all industrial lots.
   (C) Utility easements.
   (D) All other information necessary to show clearly the proposed elements of
the proposed mixed-use development included.
   (E) The approximate location of major collector streets.
(i) The proposed individual development land use areas, including total acreage
for the overall development area, and a general label for the types of the
proposed uses available for those individual areas.
(ii) A conceptual landscape plan for peripheral areas of the mixed-use
development including any property lines abutting a public or private street
(not including internal driving aisles) and the peripheral areas for various
sub-areas of the mixed-use development.
(iii) A conceptual overall signage plan including proposed or existing ground
signs for peripheral areas of the mixed-use development including any property
lines abutting a public or private street (not including internal driving
aisles) and the peripheral areas for various sub-areas of the mixed-use
development.
         i.   Public Utilities Information:
            (1)   Approximate location and size of any existing sanitary and
storm sewers, both on the site and in easements, and rights-of- way immediately
adjacent to the site.
            (2)   Approximate location and size of any existing water lines
both on the site and in easements and rights-of-way immediately adjacent to the
site.
            (3)   Location of easements and rights-of-way for any other sewer
or water utilities which are to service the site.
            (4)   The layout of the utility systems shall be approved by the
Village Engineer.
            (5)   All utilities shall be located in rights-of-way or in utility
easements. Utilities shall not be located under pavement except at street
intersections or other locations specifically approved by the Village Engineer.
            (6)   All utilities shall be built in accordance with the
requirements in title 9 of this Code on land divisions.
         j.   Transportation Information:
            (1)   Approximate location of all existing extensions of State,
County, or Municipal roads across or immediately adjacent to the subject
property.
            (2)   All streets in a mixed-use development shall be dedicated to
the public, except as provided in the mixed-use development ordinance.
            (3)   All streets shall be built in conformance to the standards
for streets as detailed in title 9 of this Code on land divisions. Any
departures are subject to review and approval of the Village Board of Trustees.
         k.   Other Conditions Information:
            (1)   Existing zoning on all parts of the subject site.
            (2)   Municipal corporate boundaries across or adjacent to the
subject site.
         l.   Written Opinion: If the subject property is located within the
Lake County Soil Conservation District then the applicant shall apply for a
written opinion from the Lake County Soil Conservation District in accordance
with section 22.02d of the Illinois Soil and Water Conservation District Act.
         m.   Stormwater Retention Requirements: A compilation of the
stormwater retention requirements based on density and building coverage.
         n.   Additional Information: Any additional information requested by
the Plan Commission or the Village Board of Trustees as being necessary for the
adequate evaluation of the proposed mixed-use development.
      4.   Procedure: The applicant for a mixed-use development shall be either
by all of the owners of record of the property which comprises the mixed-use
development or by the contract purchaser, with consent of all owners, provided:
         a.   The application shall be submitted in the name of the owners of
record.
         b.   The party petitioning for the mixed-use development shall
disclose their interest in the property, such as an equitable interest via a
purchase contract for all or a portion of the property in question.
      5.   Filing Of The Application: The applicant shall file with the Village
Clerk a petition for mixed-use development approval, along with twenty (20)
copies of the General Development Plan, and all required filing fees. The
Village Clerk shall forward one copy of the General Development Plan to each of
the following: Mayor and Trustees, all members of the Plan Commission, the
Village Planner, the Village Engineer, the Village Attorney and any other
public officials as required.
      6.   Action By The Plan Commission: Within sixty (60) days of the filing,
the Plan Commission shall undertake the following:
         a.   Conduct a public hearing on the General Development Plan in
accordance with applicable statutes.
         b.   Prepare its findings of facts.
         c.   Submit to the Village Board of Trustees a written report within
thirty (30) days of public hearing recommending approval, approval with
modifications, or disapproval of the General Development Plan. A copy of said
report shall be sent to the applicant.
         d.   The time limit for action by the Plan Commission may be extended
for a thirty (30) day period by the Plan Commission. The applicant may request
such further time extension.
         e.   The failure to fully consider and report within any applicable
time period shall constitute a recommendation of denial of the application.
      7.   Action By The Village Board Of Trustees: The Village Board of
Trustees shall, within sixty (60) days of receipt of the report and
recommendation of the Plan Commission, approve, approve with conditions and
modifications, disapprove the General Development Plan, or remand the
application back to the Plan Commission with directions for further review and
recommendation.
         a.   If the application is denied, the Village Board of Trustees shall
state in writing its reasons for such denial, which shall be sent to the
applicant.
         b.   The time limit for action by the Village Board of Trustees may be
extended upon the request of the applicant.
         c.   The Village Board of Trustees may extend the time period for
action on the application, not to exceed ninety (90) days. Failure to act
within the applicable time period shall constitute a denial of the application.
         d.   The ordinance approving the mixed-use development (mixed-use
development ordinance) shall establish the basic right of land uses for the
property in conformance with the General Development Plan as approved. No
building permits shall be issued for any part of the mixed-use development
until a Final Mixed-Use Development Plan has been approved for such part.
      8.   At The Time Of Approval Of The Mixed-Use Ordinance:
         a.   The Village shall file with the County Recorder of Deeds, and at
the applicant's expense, the final plat of subdivision that is approved by the
Village Board of Trustees at the time of approval of the mixed-use development
ordinance.
         b.   The Village shall amend the official zoning map of the Village of
Green Oaks to show the zoning of the property in the MX Mixed- Use District.
      9.   Final Development Plans:
         a.   Following the approval of the proposed overall mixed-use
development, the applicant shall file an application for a final development
plan on a lot by lot basis for development areas within the overall mixed-use
development. The Plan Commission shall review the final development plan at a
public meeting for which notice shall not be required other than the minimum
48-hour posting of the Plan Commission meeting agenda.
         b.   The applicant for final plan approval may only apply for those
uses that were approved in the overall Mixed-Use Development Plan for that lot
or development area and will be subject to design review and recommendations by
the Village Plan Commission and subject to final action by the Village Board of
the final conditions, plans, and documents.
         c.   The application for final plan approval shall include the
following documents:
            (1)   A Site Plan, showing the proposed location of buildings,
parking, signs and landscaping and the information for the proposed intensity
for the use areas such as, but not limited to, building and parking setbacks,
building heights, building and impervious coverage information including notes
for any proposed departures from the Mixed-Use District lot and bulk standards
of section
8-7G-7 of this article or other departures being requested.
            (2)   A final Landscape Plan.
            (3)   A final Signage Plan.
            (4)   A final Utility Plan.
            (5)   A final Lighting Plan.
            (6)   A final building design plan, including building elevations
and materials, but not including construction drawings that are to be submitted
as part of the application for the building permit.
            (7)   Any agreements, provisions, or covenants, which shall govern
the use, maintenance, and continued protection of the proposed use and any of
the common areas and useable open space areas.
      10.   Changes To The Final Mixed Use Development Plan:
         a.   After the approval of the Final Mixed-Use Development Plan, any
modification or alteration of any buildings, structures, materials,
landscaping, or other components within the mixed-use development will be
governed by the approval of the Final Development Plan, rather than by any
other provision of this title.
         b.   No change in the use of the land or in the construction,
modification, or alteration of any buildings may be made contrary to the
provisions of the approved Final Mixed-Use Development Plan, except upon
application to the appropriate agency, according to the following procedure:
            (1)   Minor changes in the location, siting, height of buildings
and structures, and the location of streets and ways of public access may be
authorized by the Village Engineer with Village Board approval if required by
engineering or other circumstances not foreseen at the time that the Final
Mixed-Use Development Plan was approved.
            (2)   All changes in the land uses, any re-arrangement of lots,
blocks, and building tracts, provisions for common open space and all other
changes in the approved Final Mixed-Use Development Plan shall be subject to
approval by the Village Board of Trustees.
            (3)   Any minor extension, alteration, or modification of existing
buildings or structures may be authorized by the Building Department with
Village Board approval if they are consistent with the purpose and intent of
the Final Mixed-Use Development Plan.
            (4)   Any building or structure that is totally or substantially
destroyed may be reconstructed only in compliance with the Final Mixed-Use
Development Plan, unless an amendment to the Final Mixed-Use Development Plan
is approved following the procedures authorized by this section.
      11.   Required Land Improvements, Engineering Specifications, And
Guarantee Arrangements: The required land improvements, engineering
specifications, and guarantee arrangements for the mixed-use development shall
be in conformance with the standards and requirements specified in title 9 of
this Code on land divisions, unless departures are included in a special use.
      12.   Conditions And Guarantees: Prior to approval of any mixed-use
development ordinance, the Plan Commission may recommend, and the Village Board
of Trustees shall stipulate, such conditions and restrictions upon the
establishment, location, construction, maintenance, and operation of the mixed-
use development as deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest.
      13.   Enforcement: Any mixed-use development ordinance or Final Mixed-Use
Development Plan approved pursuant to this section shall be binding upon the
successor owners of record of the land which comprises the mixed-use
development or the applicable lot or development area with respect to a Final
Mixed-Use Development Plan, and its terms shall be enforced according to the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 2018-O-08, 11-28-2018)
8-7G-7: LOT AND BULK STANDARDS:
   A.   Nonconforming Lot Or Parcel: Any nonconforming lot or parcel shall not
be entitled to be used as a principal building site but may be used in
conjunction with an adjacent conforming lot or parcel for accessory uses.
   B.   Storage Of Garbage And Trash: All disposal devices shall be rodent-
proof and properly screened from public view by opaque landscaping or materials
that are compatible with the building's architecture. Disposal devices shall be
emptied every seven (7) days and shall have no burning activity.
   C.   Requirements: Every lot or parcel shall meet the lot and bulk standards
set forth in tables 8-7G-7-1 through 8-7G-7-5 of this section unless otherwise
approved for departures as part of the Final Development Plans approved by the
Village Board. The lot and bulk standards will not apply to the existing
billboard signs abutting the tollway and will be addressed separately as part
of the special use permit.
   TABLE 8-7G-7-1
   LOT SIZE AND BULK STANDARDS
 
          Lot Size And Bulk Requirements
Zoning                                Building                Impervious
District  Lot Area       Lot Frontage Coverage    Floor Area  Surface
                                                              Coverage1
Mixed-Use Minimum 20,000 Minimum 100' Maximum 50% Maximum 50% Maximum 75%1
          sq. ft.
 
Note:
   1.    Depending on existing site conditions and subject to Village review,
impervious surface coverage may be increased up to 85 percent.
   D.   Building Setbacks: The minimum setbacks from the property line of a lot
are set forth in table 8-7G-7-2 of this subsection, such setbacks shall not be
less than the height of the building unless a departure is approved as part of
a final plan approval:
   TABLE 8-7G-7-2
   BUILDING SETBACKS
 
          Minimum Principal Building And Structure Setbacks1
                                    Side Or                          Additional
Zoning                    Side Yard Rear Yard             Side Or    Setback
District  Front Side Yard Adjoining Adjoining A Rear Yard Rear Yard  Required
          Yard            A Street  Residential           Abutting A For Each
                                    Zone                  Railroad   Foot Over
                                                                     45'
Mixed-Use 30'   15'       30'       n/a         20'       12'        2'2
 
Notes:
   1.    Subject to specific landscape/screening plans, the minimum building
and structure setbacks may be reduced at the time of submittal of a final plan.
   2.    Additional setbacks for principal buildings or structures is only
applicable to buildings within 1,650 feet of the Illinois Tollway.
   E.   Parking Setbacks: The minimum parking setbacks from the property line
of a lot are set forth in table 8-7G-7-3 of this subsection:
   TABLE 8-7G-7-3
   PARKING SETBACKS
 
          Minimum Parking Setbacks1
Zoning                         Side Yard             Side Or Rear  Outdoor
District  Front Yard Side Yard Adjoining A Rear Yard Yard Abutting Vehicle
                               Street                A Railroad    Display
Mixed-Use 10'        10'       10'         10'       10'           10'
 
Note:
   1.    Subject to specific landscape/screening plans, the minimum parking
setbacks may be reduced at the time of submittal of a final plan.
   F.   Accessory Structure Setbacks: The minimum setbacks for accessory
structures from the property line of a lot are set forth in table 8-7G-7-4 of
this subsection:
   TABLE 8-7G-7-4
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE SETBACKS
 
                Accessory Structure Setbacks
Zoning District General Accessory Gas Station Pump Islands Gas Station Canopy
                Structure
Mixed-Use       Minimum 4'        Minimum 20'              Minimum 10'
 
   G.   Building Height: Maximum principal building height is set forth in
table 8-7G-7-5 of this subsection. In no case shall an accessory building
exceed a principal building's height.
   TABLE 8-7G-7-5
   BUILDING HEIGHT
 
Zoning District Maximum Height Requirements
Mixed-Use       65' or 5 stories1
 
   Note:
      1.    Excludes fully enclosed roof top mechanical equipment penthouses.
(Ord. 2018-O-08, 11-28-2018)
8-7G-8: SIGNS:
   A.   See title 11, "Sign Regulations", of this Code for temporary,
permanent, and traffic directional signage requirements. Departure from the
sign regulations may be addressed as part of the special use permit approved by
the Village Board. (Ord. 2018-O-08, 11-28-2018)
8-7G-9: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
   A.   Exterior Lighting In Review And Approval Process: Exterior lighting
shall not produce glare onto adjacent properties and an exterior lighting shall
be included in the special use review and approval process.
   B.   Luminaries: All exterior lighting luminaries shall be baffled so that
glare is minimized. All luminaries shall be designed so that the cutoff line of
light is at least ten feet (10') within the property line. The maximum
permitted height of luminaries shall be thirty feet (30').
   C.   Illumination: The maximum permitted level of illumination is three
(3.0) foot-candles at a point ten feet (10') inside the property line.
Illumination shall be measured in foot-candles at six inches (6") above ground
level in a horizontal position at the point ten feet (10') inside the property
line. A direct reading portable light meter with color and cosine corrected
sensor with multiple scales shall be used. The meter shall have been tested and
calibrated to an accuracy of plus or minus five percent (±5%) within one year
of its use. Measurements shall be made after dark. The difference between
lights on measurements and lights off measurements shall be used to determine
the illumination level and to eliminate the effects of ambient light. (Ord.
2018-O-08, 11-28-2018)
8-7G-10: OFF-STREET PARKING REFERENCED TO PERMITTED USES:
All uses in the Mixed-Use District shall provide off-street parking spaces in
compliance with the requirements listed in tables 8-7G-10-1 and 8-7G-10-2 of
this section.
   A.   Calculation Of Number Of Spaces: When calculating the total parking
required, any fraction shall be counted as one parking space.
   B.   Size: Each parking space shall be at least nine feet by eighteen feet
(9' x 18') in size. Adequate access aisles to each stall and to the street
shall be provided.
      1.   Handicapped Parking: A minimum number of accessible parking must be
provided at the ratios listed in table 8-7G-10-1 of this subsection. Each
handicapped parking stall shall be sixteen feet by eighteen feet (16' x 18') in
size and located as close as possible to the entrance(s) of the building or use
for which the parking is intended. Adequate access aisles to each stall and to
the street shall be provided.
   TABLE 8-7G-10-1
   HANDICAPPED PARKING REQUIREMENTS
Total Off-Street Parking Spaces Provided Number Of Accessible
                                         Parking Spaces Required
Total Off-Street Parking Spaces Provided Number Of Accessible
                                         Parking Spaces Required
   1 to 25                            1
   26 to 50                           2
   51 to 75                           3
   76 to 100                          4
   101 to 150                         5
   151 to 200                         6
   201 to 300                         7
   301 to 400                         8
   401 to 500                         9
   501 to 1,000                       2% of total number
   Over 1,000                         20 plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
 
   C.   Multiple Uses: If multiple uses on a lot vary in their parking
requirements, the number of parking spaces shall be the sum of the individual
requirements for each use. However, where peak parking requirements occur at
distinctly different times of the day or week, the total number of spaces may
be reduced or reserved upon approval of the Village Board.
   D.   Surface: All parking facilities, access driveways and aisles, and other
internal vehicular circulation shall be paved.
   E.   Future Parking Reserve: Subject to the approval of the Plan Commission,
parking spaces may be designated as a future parking reserve subject to the
following standards:
      1.   The designated spaces shall be those located the farthest away from
the building.
      2.   The designated spaces shall be landscaped in a manner compatible
with the balance of the landscaping on the site.
      3.   The designated spaces shall not be a part of nor encroach upon any
otherwise required buffer yard or foundation yard or parking lot landscape
area.
      4.   In the sole discretion of the Village, if at any time there appears
to be a parking deficiency, no further occupancy permits shall be issued until
such time that the future parking spaces held in reserve are improved to
correct the deficiency.
   F.   Flexible Parking Requirements: Subject to approval of the Village Board
and Plan Commission, the number of off-street parking spaces may be reduced if
shared parking or multi-modal transportation alternatives and amenities are
proposed.
   G.   Number Of Spaces: Along with permitted uses, the number of off-street
parking spaces required to be built or reserved for each use are set forth in
table 8-7G-10-2 of this subsection.
   TABLE 8-7G-10-2
   PERMITTED USES AND PARKING REQUIREMENTS
 
Type Of Use           Allowance In                Parking Requirement
                      Mixed-Use District
Agriculture           Permitted                   n/a
                      Permitted special use
Mixed use development requiring extra conditions  Flexible parking requirement
                      (see section                - subject to Village review
                      8-7G-6 of this article)
 
(Ord. 2018-O-08, 11-28-2018)
8-7G-11: OFF-STREET LOADING:
   A.   All uses involving the receipt or distribution of goods by vehicle
shall have space on the premises for the pick-up, delivery, and service
vehicles necessary for normal daily operation. These spaces shall be in
addition to the off-street parking spaces required. Off-street loading
facilities shall be provided in accord with the following standards:
      1.   Number Of Spaces: One space per building containing five thousand
(5,000) square feet to fifty thousand (50,000) square feet, plus one additional
space for each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet or
fraction thereof.
      2.   Size: The minimum size of all required loading spaces shall be
twelve feet wide by forty feet in length (12' x 40') and shall have a vertical
clearance of fifteen feet (15').
      3.   Location: All required loading spaces shall meet the building
setback requirements.
      4.   Screening: All exterior loading spaces on the side or rear of any
building shall be screened from public view and adjoining properties and the
street by landscaped berms, dense opaque landscaping materials or screening
that is compatible with building architecture. (Ord. 2018-O-08, 11-28-2018)
8-7G-12: DESIGN REVIEW:
No building, improvement or structure shall be erected that is not in
compliance with design criteria set forth in its respective zoning district's
"design criteria" section. No permit shall be issued for any building,
improvement or structure unless it has first been approved as complying with
said design criteria by the Plan Commission of the Village and by the Village
Board as herein provided. In the event that the Plan Commission rejects or
fails to approve any plans submitted for design review within forty five (45)
days after submission, the person submitting such plans may appeal from said
rejection or failure to approve in the same manner as herein provided for
appeals from the decisions of officers of the Village to the Board of Appeals
of the Village, as provided in section
8-11-5 of this title. If the Plan Commission rejects any plan, it shall state
the reason for rejection in writing.
   A.   Procedure: The applicant shall file with the Village Clerk a petition
for the Final Development Plan approval, along with twenty (20) copies of the
Final Development Plan, and all required filing fees. The Village Clerk shall
forward one copy of the General Development Plan to each of the following:
Mayor and Trustees, all members of the Plan Commission, the Village Planner,
the Village Engineer, the Village Attorney and any other public officials as
required. As otherwise required, building permits for all interior
modifications or improvements and occupancy permits for all changes in tenancy
shall not be subject to the design review by the Plan Commission unless either
of these changes increases the number of parking spaces required under this
article.
   B.   Village Staff And Village Consultants Review: The Village staff and
Village consultants shall review the submitted Final Development Plan
submissions to determine if they are complete and meet the standards of the
special use permit and submit a summary of the Village staff and Village
consultants findings to the Village Plan Commission.
   C.   Plan Commission Review: Thereafter, the plans shall be submitted to the
Village Plan Commission for design review and comment at a Plan Commission
meeting. The Plan Commission shall determine if the proposed site development,
landscaping, building design, signs and other design elements satisfy the
design criteria standards of the special use permit. The Plan Commission shall
forward their recommendations to the Village Board at a regular meeting for
final action. Upon approval of the Final Development Plan, one set of the
approved plans shall be returned to the applicant, one set shall be placed on
file with the Village Clerk, one set shall be sent to the Building Department
and the other Village consultants, and one set shall be placed on file with the
Plan Commission.
   D.   Building Permits: No building permit shall be issued that is not in
compliance with the approved preliminary design plans.
   E.   Required Preliminary Design Plan Documents:
      1.   Location Map: A dimensioned location map at a scale of one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger showing the relationship of the
subject site to adjoining properties, land uses, structures, streets, and
natural features within one thousand feet (1,000') of the subject site. A
current plan view aerial photograph to a scale of one inch equals four hundred
feet (1" = 400') may be substituted in lieu of a map drawing.
      2.   Site Plan: A dimensioned site plan shall be prepared at a scale of
one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20') or larger, showing the following:
         a.   Surveyed property lines and easements.
         b.   Building setback lines and buffer yard lines.
         c.   All proposed buildings and structures.
         d.   All proposed nonstructural accessory uses.
         e.   Existing topography and proposed topography at one foot (1')
intervals at USGS datum.
         f.   Proposed finish floor and roof elevations at USGS datum.
         g.   Proposed landscaping plan in accordance with sections
8-7G-14 and
8-7G-15 of this article.
         h.   Proposed garbage and trash storage facilities.
         i.   Proposed exterior lighting type and location of luminaries and
illumination level contours at one foot-candle intervals.
         j.   At the applicant's option, any other site plan design information
which the applicant feels may explain the site design concept.
      3.   Building Plans: Dimensioned preliminary building plans for all
buildings and structures shown on the site plan at a scale of one inch equals
eight feet (1" = 8') or larger showing the following:
         a.   Floor, penthouse and roof plans.
         b.   Elevations indicating materials, colors and textures.
         c.   Cross sections.
         d.   Proposed garbage and trash storage facilities.
         e.   At the applicant's option, any other drawings, material samples,
or other information which the applicant feels may explain the building design
concept.
      4.   Sign Plans: A dimensioned drawing of all proposed temporary and
permanent signs at a scale of one inch equals one foot (1" = 1') or larger
indicating the following:
         a.   Sign materials, construction and supporting structure. Structural
calculations shall also be required for all free- standing signs of one hundred
(100) square feet or larger surface area.
         b.   Lettering and graphic information contents.
         c.   Colors and textures.
         d.   Method of illumination.
         e.   At the applicant's option, any other information, material
samples or drawings which the applicant feels may explain the sign design
concept. (Ord. 2018-O-08, 11-28-2018)
8-7G-13: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
Before any building or other structure, or part thereof, shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, moved or structurally altered, a building
permit shall be obtained. Before the use of any building, structure or land is
changed, including any change in tenancy, an occupancy permit shall be
obtained. Any use or occupancy, which was not discontinued during any
alteration work, shall be discontinued within thirty (30) days after the
completion of the alteration if a new occupancy permit is not issued. (Ord.
2018-O-08, 11-28-2018)
8-7G-14: TREE SURVEY AND PRESERVATION:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this section to govern the
removal of trees and other significant vegetation and insure the replacement of
trees in public and private properties within the Village.
   B.   Tree Survey Or Inventory: Subject to Village Board approval, a tree
survey or inventory plan indicating the location, size, genus and species of
all trees within the subject property shall be submitted to the Village. The
plan shall indicate all trees designated for preservation. Site Plan review
shall not commence until the tree survey or inventory is submitted to the
Village. The tree survey or inventory shall include the following:
      1.   Topographic Survey: Existing and proposed contour elevations (1 foot
intervals) to determine long-range adverse effects on plant materials
designated for preservation.
      2.   Implementation Techniques: The method used to insure preservation of
retained vegetation shall be outlined in a written statement indicating care to
be taken during and after construction; including proximity of grading
operations to tree drip lines, installation of protective fencing and storage
of machinery and supplies.
   C.   Tree Removal Permit: All trees designated for removal having a trunk
diameter ten inches (10") and greater measured six inches (6") above grade
shall require a tree removal permit. The permit shall be obtained from the
Village prior to final site plan approval. The permit application shall include
a statement giving the reasons for removal. The Village shall approve the
permit application if one or more of the following conditions is present:
      1.   The tree(s) are dead, diseased or in a weakened state.
      2.   The tree(s) pose a safety hazard to existing or proposed buildings,
pedestrians and vehicles.
      3.   The tree(s) do not conform to recognized principles of good
horticultural practice.
      4.   The tree(s) are located in areas designated for a proposed building
(s), circulation or parking activities.
   D.   Trees Designated For Preservation: In the event trees designated for
preservation have been destroyed or removed as the result of construction
damage, negligence or other operations within the first five (5) years
following construction completion, such trees shall be replaced in accordance
with table 8-7G-14-1 of this subsection, subject to Village Board approval:
   TABLE 8-7G-14-1
   TREE REPLACEMENT CRITERIA
Diameter Of Existing Tree  Number Of Replacement Trees Replacement Caliper (6"
(6" Above Grade)                                       Above Grade)
Diameter Of Existing Tree  Number Of Replacement Trees Replacement Caliper (6"
(6" Above Grade)                                       Above Grade)
   4" - 6"              1                           3"
   7" - 12"             2                           3"
   13" - 18"            3                           3"
   19" - 24"            4                           3"
   25" - 30"            5                           3"
   31" - 36"            6                           3"
   36" or more          7                           3"
 
   E.   Payments Acceptable: The Village Board may approve payments instead of
replacement trees in lieu of the required number of replacements.
   F.   Species Of Trees: Replacement and parkway trees shall be limited to the
species listed in table 8-7G-14-2 of this subsection, unless otherwise approved
by the Village:
   TABLE 8-7G-14-2
   TREE SPECIES
Acer      Maple excluding silver maple
Carya     Hickory
Celtis    Hackberry
Ginkgo    Ginkgo
Gleditsia Honeylocust
Ostrya    Hophornbeam
Quercus   Oak
Tilia     Linden
 
   G.   Amended Landscape Plan: An amended landscape development plan shall be
submitted for approval by the Village. The plan shall indicate the location,
size, genus and specie of all replacement trees. (Ord. 2018-O-08, 11-28-2018)
8-7G-15: LANDSCAPE DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this section to govern the
landscape improvement of all proposed development to enhance, protect and
preserve the appearance, character, health, safety and welfare of the Village.
   B.   Plan Requirement: A landscape development plan shall be prepared as an
overlay to the Site and Engineering Plans.
   C.   Right-Of-Way Design Criteria: Landscaping shall be provided within the
right-of-way where a property abuts a dedicated public street as follows:
      1.   Ground Cover: All unpaved areas within public rights-of-way shall be
graded and sodded.
      2.   Parkway Trees:
         a.   Quantity: Parkway trees shall be planted at a spacing equivalent
to fifty feet (50') on center. Clustering or staggering of trees may be
acceptable if approved by the Village.
         b.   Size: Parkway trees shall be planted at a minimum trunk size of
three inches (3") caliper and measured six inches (6") above grade.
         c.   Species: Parkway trees shall be limited to the same species
listed in subsection 8-7G-14F, table 8-7G-14-2 of this article, unless
otherwise approved by the Village.
   D.   Parking Lot Interior Landscaping Design Criteria: All parking lots
designed for twenty (20) or more spaces shall contain the following:
      1.   Quantity: One parking island shall be devoted to live landscaping
for every fifteen (15) parking spaces, enclosed by curbing, and dispersed
throughout the lot. Parking lot islands may be consolidated, subject to Site
Plan review.
      2.   Shade Trees: One shade tree shall be required for every one hundred
fifty (150) square feet of landscaped area. In the event of a fraction of a
tree, if a fraction is less than one-half (1/2) tree, the lower full number
shall be used. If a fraction is one-half (1/2) tree or greater, the higher
number shall be used.
      3.   Cover: At least fifty percent (50%) of all interior parking lot
islands shall consist of live landscaping.
   E.   Parking Lot Perimeter Landscaping Design Criteria:
      1.   Ground cover materials shall be sodded or seeded, unless occupied by
plant materials.
      2.   A five foot (5') wide minimum landscaped buffer area on the lot
shall be provided at the property line adjoining any street.
      3.   Landscape screens shall include earth berms where feasible, and a
group or combination of the following types of trees:
         a.   Deciduous.
         b.   Evergreen.
         c.   Shade.
         d.   Ornamental.
      4.   Front yards:
         a.   A five foot (5') wide minimum landscaped buffer area on the lot
shall be provided at the property line adjoining any street.
         b.   All parking lots located across the street from property zoned
for residential use shall be screened by a continuous shrub buffer, no less
than three feet (3') tall.
         c.   All parking lots located across the street from properties zoned
for nonresidential use shall be screened by a shrub buffer covering at least
twenty five percent (25%) of the street frontage, no less than three feet (3')
tall.
      5.   Rear and side yards:
         a.   All parking lots located adjacent to properties zoned for
residential use shall be screened by a continuous shrub buffer, no less than
six feet (6') tall. A six foot (6') solid wood fence may be substituted for
plant material if approved by the Village.
         b.   All parking lots adjacent to properties zoned for nonresidential
use shall be screened by a shrub buffer covering at least twenty five percent
(25%) of the street frontage, no less than three feet (3') tall.
   F.   Building Foundation Planting Design Criteria:
      1.   Size: A minimum setback of five feet (5') in width adjacent to the
building shall be devoted to landscaping, except where walks, parking lots, and
service drives are required.
      2.   Materials: Foundation planting shall consist of a combination of
deciduous, evergreen and ornamental trees, deciduous and evergreen shrubs.
Ground cover shall consist of sod or ground cover, except where plantings
exist.
      3.   Screening: All mechanical and electrical equipment, dumpsters, and
loading areas shall be screened from public view and adjoining properties with
a solid evergreen hedge or fence.
   G.   Site Perimeter Landscaping Design Criteria: All plans submitted for
review shall include perimeter landscaping as follows:
      1.   All Properties:
         a.   The Village may also require additional plant materials including
deciduous, evergreen and flowering trees, ornamental and evergreen shrubs.
Trees may be clustered or staggered if approved by the Village.
         b.   Ground cover materials shall be sodded or seeded, unless occupied
by plant materials.
      2.   Properties Abutting Residential Property:
         a.   All properties located adjacent to properties zoned for
residential use shall be screened from view with a continuous solid screen no
less than six feet (6') tall. The screen shall consist of earth berms, a solid
wood fence six feet (6') in height, or other barrier acceptable to the Village.
         b.   Deciduous shade trees shall be planted the equivalent of one
hundred feet (100') on center.
      3.   Properties Abutting Nonresidential Property:
         a.   All properties abutting property zoned for nonresidential use
shall include the equivalent of one shade tree, one hundred feet (100') on
center.
   H.   Installation And Maintenance:
      1.   Installation:
         a.   Site preparation work shall not be undertaken until a certificate
of acceptance is issued for the landscape development plan.
         b.   All landscaping shall be installed in conformance with procedures
established by the American Association of Nurserymen.
         c.   Plant material shall be consistent with all requirements set
forth in the "American Standard for Nursery Stock" published by the American
Association of Nurserymen, latest edition.
         d.   Prior to construction, the owner shall submit a performance and
material and labor payment bond in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of
the estimated cost of landscape construction, in a form acceptable to the
Village. The bond shall also insure completion of the work, repair of all
damages caused by the owner; and replacement of all items not in conformance
with the approved landscape development plan.
         e.   Prior to issuance of any occupancy permit, the owner must submit
evidence of substantial completion of the landscape work.
      2.   Replacement: The owner shall replace all dead material within the
next growing season. (Ord. 2018-O-08, 11-28-2018)
8-7G-16: INDUSTRIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES:
It is the purpose of this section to establish regulations and standards for
the installation and operation of industrial uses, based upon consideration of
the objectionable characteristics of such uses and the zones in which they are
permitted. Further, this section is intended to prescribe procedures and
methods of measurement of industrial characteristics subject to such standards.
   A.   Permit Procedure: Applicants shall supply the Building Commissioner
sufficient information that contains all performance standards and site
development standards set forth in this article, which must be complied with at
all times. The Building Commissioner may require the applicant to submit the
following information:
      1.   A plot plan showing the location of all existing and proposed
structures and features on and within two hundred feet (200') of the proposed
site.
      2.   A description of the activity to be conducted regarding waste
products, external effects or other conditions which are regulated herein. The
applicant shall not be required to reveal details regarding any secret process
or manufacturing procedure for a compound or product to become available to
competitors.
      3.   The type and location of abatement devices to control, or recording
instruments to measure, conformance with required standards, excluding devices
and instruments which are inherent in the manufacturing process.
      4.   Such other data and certification as may reasonably be required by
the Building Commissioner to reach a determination.
   B.   Performance Standards: In Industrial Districts, the following
regulations shall apply:
      1.   Permitted Noise Levels: At no point on or beyond the boundary of any
lot which abuts a lot in the same zone shall the sound pressure level exceed
the maximum permitted decibel levels for the designated octave band as set
forth in table 8-7G-16-1 of this subsection:
   TABLE 8-7G-16-1
   MAXIMUM PERMITTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL
   IN DECIBELS - OCTAVE BAND FREQUENCY
Cycles Per Second Decibels
Cycles Per Second Decibels
   0 - 74      67
   75 - 149    59
   150 - 299   52
   300 - 599   46
   600 - 1,199 40
   1,200 - 2,3934
   2,400 - 2,7932
   2,800 and ov32
 
      2.   Method Of Measurement: Sound levels shall be measured with a sound
level meter, associated octave band filter, and impact noise filter
manufactured according to standards prescribed by the American Standards
Association. Measurements shall be made using the flat network and "slow" meter
response of the sound level meter. Impulsive type noises shall be subject to
the performance standards. Noises incapable of being so measured, but
objectionable because of intermittence, beat, frequency or shrillness, shall be
controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
      3.   Exception: Sound level requirements in this section shall not apply
to noises from site preparation, safety signals, warning devices, and railroad
or trucking equipment.
      4.   Vibration: Steady-state vibrations, for the purpose of this section,
are vibrations which are continuous or vibrations in discrete pulses more
frequent than one hundred (100) per minute. Discrete pulses which do not exceed
one hundred (100) impulses per minute shall not cause displacement more than
twice the values established in subsection B5, table 8-7G-16-2 of this section.
Impact vibration shall mean vibrations occurring in discrete pulses separated
by an interval of at least one minute and number no more than eight (8) per
twenty four (24) hour period.
      5.   Permitted Vibration Displacements: At no point on or beyond the
boundary of any lot shall the ground-transmitted steady-state or impact
vibration caused by any use or activity under the control of the property owner
exceed the limits as established in tables 8-7G-16-2 and 8-7G-16-3 of this
subsection:
   TABLE 8-7G-16-2
   MAXIMUM PERMITTED STEADY-STATE VIBRATION DISPLACEMENT
 
Frequency           Limited Industrial District Adjacent To Any Residential
(Cycles Per Second) (Inches)                    Zone
                                                (Inches)
Less than 10        0.0008                      0.0004
10 through 19       0.0005                      0.0002
20 through 29       0.0003                      0.0001
30 through 39       0.0002                      0.0001
40 through 49       0.0001                      0.0001
50 and over         0.0001                      0.0001
 
   TABLE 8-7G-16-3
   MAXIMUM PERMITTED IMPACT VIBRATION DISPLACEMENT
 
Frequency           Limited             Adjacent To Any Residential Zone
(Cycles Per Second) Industrial District (Inches)
                    (Inches)
   Less than 10  0.0016              0.0006
   10 through 19 0.0010              0.0003
   20 through 29 0.0006              0.0002
   30 through 39 0.0004              0.0001
   40 through 49 0.0002              0.0001
   50 and over   0.0002              0.0001
 
      6.   Method Of Measurement: For the purpose of measuring vibrations, a
three (3) component measuring system shall be used. A three (3) component
measuring system denotes instrumentation which can measure earthborn vibrations
in three (3) directions, each of which occurs at right angles to the other two
(2).
      7.   Smoke And Particulate Matter: The emission from all sources within
any lot, of particulate matter containing more than five percent (5%) by weight
or particles having a particle diameter larger than forty four (44) microns is
prohibited. Dust and other types of air pollution borne by the wind from such
sources as storage areas, yards and roads within the boundaries of any lot
shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate landscaping, paving, oiling or other
acceptable means. Emission of particulate matter from such sources more than
weight limitations specified herein is prohibited. The emission of smoke or
particulate matter of a density equal to, or greater than, no. 2 on the
Ringelmann Chart is prohibited, except as otherwise provided herein.
      8.   Smoke Emission: In Limited Industrial Districts, the emission of
more than twelve (12) smoke units per stack in any one-hour period is
prohibited. However, once during any six (6) hour period each stack shall be
permitted up to twelve (12) additional units in a fifteen (15) minute period
for soot blowing and fire cleaning. Only during such fifteen (15) minute
periods shall smoke of a density equal to, but not exceeding, Ringelmann no. 3
be permitted, and then only for fire cleaning and for not more than four (4)
minutes per period.
      9.   Particulate Matter Emission: The rate of emission of particulate
matter from all sources within the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed the
rate established in table 8-7G-16-4 of this subsection:
   TABLE 8-7G-16-4
   PERMITTED RATE OF PARTICULATE MATTER EMISSION
   IN POUNDS PER HOUR, PER ACRE
Height Of Emission Pounds Per Hour, Per Acre
Height Of Emission Pounds Per Hour, Per Acre
   0' - 49'     1.00
   50' - 99'    1.01
   100' - 149'  1.06
   150' - 199'  1.10
   200' - 299'  1.16
   300' - 399'  1.30
   400' and over1.50
 
      10.   Methods Of Measurement.
      11.   Smoke: For the purpose of grading the density of emission of smoke,
the Ringelmann Chart, published and used by the United States Bureau of Mines,
shall be employed. For the purpose of determining smoke units, the Ringelmann
density reading shall be made at least every minute during the period of
observation. Each reading (Ringelmann number) shall be multiplied by the time
in minutes for which it is observed, and the products added together to
determine the total number of smoke units observed during the total period of
observation.
      12.   Particulate Matter: The total net rate of emission of particulate
matter within the boundaries of any lot shall be determined as follows:
Determine the maximum emission in pounds per hour from each source of emission
and divide this figure by the number of acres of lot areas, thereby obtaining
the hourly rate of emission in pounds per acre. Add together the individual
rates of emission as derived above to obtain the total rate of emission from
all sources of emission within the boundaries of the lot. It is this total that
shall not exceed the rate established in subsection B9, table 8-7G-16-4 of this
section.
      13.   Odors: No continuous or repetitive emission of odors or odor-
causing substances which would be offensive beyond any property line of any
industrial use will be permitted. An odor emitted no more than fifteen (15)
minutes in any one day shall not be deemed as continuous, frequent or
repetitive within the meaning of these regulations. The existence of an odor
shall be presumed when analysis by a competent technician demonstrates that a
discernible odor is being emitted. Any process which may involve the creation
or emission of any odors shall be provided with a primary and secondary
safeguard system so that control will be maintained if the primary safeguard
system fails.
      14.   Radiation Hazards: The handling of radioactive materials, the
discharge of such materials into air and water, and the disposal of radioactive
wastes shall be in conformance with the applicable regulations of the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission and any instrumentality of the State of Illinois.
      15.   Fire And Explosive Hazards:
         a.   Explosives; Certificate Of Compliance: The provisions of 225
Illinois Compiled Statutes 210/1001 through 210/5014 shall be complied with,
and no explosives shall be stored, used or manufactured without first
submitting to the Zoning Officer a certificate of compliance from the Illinois
Department of Mines and Minerals.
         b.   Gasoline, Inflammables Or Explosives: No gasoline or other
inflammables or explosives shall be stored unless the location, plans and
construction conform to the laws and regulations of the State of Illinois and
have the approval of the State Division of Fire Prevention of the Department of
Public Safety.
         c.   Glare And Heat: Every use and activity shall be operated so that
it does not emit heat or heated air beyond the boundary of the lot on which it
is located. Night lighting necessary for safety and the protection of property
shall follow the exterior lighting standards set forth in section
8-7G-9 of this article.
      16.   Electromagnetic Interference: There shall be no electromagnetic
interference that adversely affects the operation of any equipment other than
that belonging to the creator of such interference, or that does not conform to
the regulations of the Federal Communications Commission.
      17.   Enforcement: The Building Commissioner, or such other Village staff
member as may be designated by the Village Administrator, shall enforce the
provisions of this section. Upon confirmation of a violation, enforcement and
penalty provisions of chapter 11 of this title shall prevail. The Village may
require the installation, maintenance, and operation by the offending industry
through continuous measuring or recording instruments to demonstrate the
operation, and to ensure continuous compliance with the prescribed standards.
(Ord. 2018-O-08, 11-28-2018)
CHAPTER 8
FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-8-1: Intent
8-8-2: Purpose
8-8-3: Administration
8-8-4: Duties of the Enforcement Officer
8-8-4-1: Determining the Flood Plain Designation
8-8-4-2: Professional Engineer Review
8-8-4-3: Dam Safety Requirements
8-8-4-4: Other Permit Requirements
8-8-4-5: Plan Review and Permit Issuance
8-8-4-6: Inspection Review
8-8-4-7: Elevation and Floodproofing Certificates
8-8-4-8: Records for Public Inspection
8-8-4-9: State Permits
8-8-4-10: Cooperation with Other Agencies
8-8-4-11: Promulgate Regulations
8-8-5: Definitions
8-8-6: Base Flood Elevation
8-8-7: Official Elevations
8-8-8: Flood Fringe Areas
8-8-8-1: Uses Permitted in Flood Fringe Areas
8-8-8-2: Zoning Regulations
8-8-8-3: Minimum Required Net Buildable Lot Area
8-8-8-4: Development Permit
8-8-8-5: Preventing Increased Damages
8-8-8-6: Compensatory Storage
8-8-9: Floodways
8-8-9-1: Development Permit
8-8-9-2: Preventing Increased Damages and List of Appropriate Uses
8-8-9-3: Engineering and Mitigation Criteria
8-8-9-4: Construction of Changes to Floodway
8-8-9-5: State Review
8-8-9-6: Other Permits
8-8-9-7: Dam Safety Permits
8-8-9-8: Activities That Do Not Require a Registered Professional Engineer's
Review
8-8-10: Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA)
8-8-10-1: Development Permit
8-8-10-2: Base Flood Elevation
8-8-10-3: Other Permits
8-8-10-4: Preventing Increased Damages
8-8-10-5: Riverine Special Flood Hazard Areas
8-8-10-6: Compensatory Storage
8-8-11: Permitting Requirements Applicable to All Flood Plain Areas
8-8-11-1: Public Health Standards
8-8-11-2: Carrying Capacity and Notification
8-8-11-3: Protecting Buildings
8-8-11-4: Building Protection Methods
8-8-11-5: Utility Protection
8-8-11-6: Review of Plans
8-8-11-7: Guarantees
8-8-11-8: Issuance of Permit
8-8-11-9: Recording
8-8-12: Other Development Requirements
8-8-12-1: New Subdivisions
8-8-12-2: Road Elevation
8-8-13: Variances
8-8-13-1: Standards for Variances
8-8-13-2: Notice to Applicant
8-8-13-3: Variances for Historical Buildings and Sites
8-8-14: Disclaimer of Liability
8-8-15: Penalty
8-8-15-1: Failure to Correct Violation
8-8-15-2: Suspension of Standard Flood Insurance Policy
8-8-15-3: Other Lawful Action
8-8-16: Abrogation and Greater Restrictions
8-8-17: Separability
8-8-18: Effective Date
8-8-1: INTENT:
This flood plain Chapter is not intended to reduce or eliminate existing
flooding, nor is it intended to impose a complete prohibition of construction
in base flood areas. On the contrary, these regulations are designed to guide
and control development in such a manner as to lessen the damaging effects of
floods on development proposed for the low-lying areas of this community. (Ord.
89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-2: PURPOSE:
This Chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the Village by
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12m, 5/11-30-8 and 5/11-30-2.
The purpose of this Chapter is to maintain this Village's eligibility in the
National Flood Insurance Program; to minimize potential losses due to periodic
flooding including loss of life, loss of property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare;
and to preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters, conserve economic
and natural values and provide for the wise utilization of water and related
land resources. This Chapter is adopted in order to accomplish the following
specific purposes:
   A.   To meet the requirements of 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5, "An Act
in Relation to the Regulation of the Rivers, Lakes and Streams of the State of
Illinois," approved June 10, 1911, as amended;
   B.   To assure that new development does not increase the flood or drainage
hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible to erosion;
   C.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   D.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
   E.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood-damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
   F.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property in
the Village by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program;
   G.   To comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 CFR 59-79, as amended;
   H.   To protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and
water resources;
   I.   To preserve the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of
watercourses and flood plains and to protect water quality and aquatic
habitats;
   J.   To preserve the natural characteristics of stream corridors in order to
moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development;
   K.   To provide for the development of flood plain lands with uses not
subject to severe damage by flooding and compatible with the other uses
permitted in the various zones;
   L.   To permit only uses and improvements on flood plain lands that are not
hazardous during flood periods;
   M.   To control the excavating, filling and grading of lots and other land
parcels or areas located in flood plains and the storing of certain materials
thereon; and
   N.   To regulate the location, construction, and elevation of buildings and
other structures or parts and appurtenances thereof, and of sanitary and storm
sewers and appurtenances, such as manholes, located in flood plains. (Ord. 89-
19, 8-10-89)
8-8-3: ADMINISTRATION:
The Building Commissioner shall be responsible for fulfilling all of the duties
in Section
8-8-4 of this Chapter.
   A.   To fulfill those duties, the Building Commissioner first should use the
criteria listed in Section
8-8-6 of this Chapter, "Base Flood Elevations", to determine whether the
development site is located within a flood plain. Once it has been determined
that a site is located within a flood plain, the Building Commissioner must
determine whether the development site is within a flood fringe, a regulatory
floodway or within an SFHA or flood plain on which no floodway has been
identified. If the site is within a flood fringe, the Building Commissioner
shall require that the minimum requirements of Section
8-8-8 of this Chapter be met. If the site is within a floodway, the Building
Commissioner shall require that the minimum requirements of Section
8-8-9 of this Chapter be met. If the site is located within a SFHA or flood
plain for which no detailed study has been completed and approved, the Building
Commissioner shall require that the minimum requirements of Section
8-8-10 of this Chapter be met.
   B.   In addition, the general requirements of Section
8-8-11 of this Chapter shall be met for all developments meeting the
requirements of Sections
8-8-8,
8-8-9 or
8-8-10 of this Chapter. The Building Commissioner shall assure that all
subdivision proposals shall meet the requirements of Section
8-8-12 of this Chapter.
   C.   If a variance is to be granted for a proposal, the Building
Commissioner shall review the requirements of Section
8-8-13 of this Chapter to make sure they are met. In addition, the Building
Commissioner shall complete all notification requirements.
   D.   In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as required in
this Chapter, the Building Commissioner may take any and all actions as
outlined in Section
8-8-15 of this Chapter. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-4: DUTIES OF THE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The Building Commissioner shall be responsible for the general administration
and enforcement of this Chapter which shall include the following: (Ord. 89-19,
8-10-89)
8-8-4-1: DETERMINING THE FLOOD PLAIN DESIGNATION:
Check all new development sites to determine whether they are in a special
flood hazard area (SFHA). If they are in a SFHA, determine whether they are in
a floodway, flood fringe or in a flood plain on which a detailed study has not
been conducted which drains more than one square mile. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-4-2: PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER REVIEW:
If the development site is within a floodway or in a flood plain on which a
detailed study has not been conducted which drains more than one square mile
then the permit shall be referred to a registered professional engineer (P.E.)
under the employ or contract of the Village for review to ensure that the
development meets the requirements of Section
8-8-9 of this Chapter. In the case of an appropriate use, the P.E. shall state
in writing that the development meets the requirements of Section
8-8-9 of this Chapter. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-4-3: DAM SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
Ensure that a DWR Dam Safety permit has been issued or a letter indicating no
dam safety permit is required, if the proposed development activity includes
construction of a dam as defined in Section
8-8-5 of this Chapter. Regulated dams may include weirs, restrictive culverts
or impoundment structures. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-4-4: OTHER PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
Ensure that any and all required Federal, State and local permits are received
prior to the issuance of a flood plain development permit. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-
89)
8-8-4-5: PLAN REVIEW AND PERMIT ISSUANCE:
Ensure that all development activities within the SFHAs of the jurisdiction of
the Village meet the requirements of this Chapter and issue a flood plain
development permit in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter and other
regulations of this community when the development meets the conditions of this
Chapter. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-4-6: INSPECTION REVIEW:
Inspect all development projects before, during and after construction to
assure proper elevation of the structure and to ensure they comply with the
provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-4-7: ELEVATION AND FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATES:
Maintain, in the permit files, an elevation certificate certifying the
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of a residential or
nonresidential building or the elevation to which a nonresidential building has
been floodproofed, using a floodproofing certificate, for all buildings subject
to Section
8-8-11 of this Chapter for public inspection and provide copies of same. (Ord.
89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-4-8: RECORDS FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION:
Maintain, for public inspection, and furnish upon request base flood data, SFHA
and regulatory floodway maps, copies of Federal or State permit documents,
variance documentation, conditional letter of map revision, letter of map
revision, letter of map amendment and "as-built" elevation and floodproofing or
elevation and floodproofing certificates for all buildings constructed subject
to this Chapter. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-4-9: STATE PERMITS:
Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the Illinois
Division of Water Resources, for all development projects subject to Sections
8-8-9 and
8-8-10 of this Chapter, unless enforcement responsibility has been delegated to
the Village. Upon acceptance of this Chapter by DWR and FEMA, responsibility is
hereby delegated to the Village as per 92 Illinois Administrative Code 708 for
construction in the regulatory floodway and flood plain when floodways have not
been defined in Sections
8-8-9 and
8-8-10 of this Chapter. However, the following review approvals are not
delegated to the Village and shall require review or permits from DWR:
   A.   Organizations which are exempt from this Chapter, as per the Illinois
Compiled Statutes;
   B.   Department of Transportation projects, dams or impoundment structures
as defined in Section
8-8-5 of this Chapter and all other State, Federal or local units of government
projects, including projects of the Village and Cook County, except for those
projects meeting the requirements of Section
8-8-9-8 of this Chapter;
   C.   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert crossing
is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the proposed flood
profile, per subsection
8-8-9-3E of this Chapter.
   D.   An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to subsection
8-8-9-3D of this Chapter;
   E.   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage as indicated in subsections
8-8-9-3A, B and H of this Chapter;
   F.   Permit issuance of structures within or over publicly navigable rivers,
lakes and streams;
   G.   Any changes in the base flood elevation or floodway locations; and
   H.   Base flood elevation determinations where none now exist. (Ord. 89-19,
8-10-89)
8-8-4-10: COOPERATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES:
Cooperate with State and Federal flood plain management agencies to improve
base flood or 100-year frequency flood and floodway data and to improve the
administration of this Chapter. Submit data to DWR and the Federal Emergency
Management Agency for proposed revisions of a regulatory map. Submit reports as
required for the National Flood Insurance Program. Notify the Federal Emergency
Management Agency of any proposed amendments to this Chapter. (Ord. 89-19, 8-
10-89)
8-8-4-11: PROMULGATE REGULATIONS:
Promulgate rules and regulations as necessary to administer and enforce the
provisions of this Chapter, subject, however, to the review and approval of DWR
and FEMA for any Chapter changes. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter and this Title generally, the following terms
shall have these meanings:
ACT: "An Act in relation to the regulation of the rivers, lakes and streams of
the State of Illinois", 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5 et seq.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, corporation or agency which submits an
application.
APPROPRIATE USE: Only uses of the regulatory floodway that are permissible and
will be considered for permit issuance. The only uses that will be allowed are
as specified in Section
8-8-9-2 of this Chapter.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year
frequency flood event. Application of the base flood elevation at any location
is as defined in Section
8-8-6 of this Chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The highest water surface elevation of the base flood.
BUILDING: A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by walls
and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a manufactured
home, mobile home or a prefabricated building. This term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site for more
than one hundred eighty (180) days.
CHANNEL: Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash or natural or man-made drainageway, which has a definite bed and
banks or shoreline, in or into which surface or groundwater flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes
damming, riprapping or other armoring, widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining and significant removal of bottom or woody vegetation.
Channel modification does not include the clearing of dead or dying vegetation,
debris or trash from the channel. Channelization is a severe form of channel
modification typically involving relocation of the existing channel (e.g.,
straightening).
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the SFHA used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the flood
plain. The uncompensated loss of natural flood plain storage can increase off-
site floodwater elevations and flows.
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A REGULATORY FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE: Preconstruction
approval by DWR and the Federal Emergency Management Agency of a proposed
change to the floodway map. This preconstruction approval, pursuant to this
Section, gives assurances to the property owner that once in appropriate use is
constructed according to permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed, as
previously agreed, upon review and acceptance of as- built plans.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A letter which indicates that the
Federal Emergency Management Agency will revise base flood elevations, flood
insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or floodway as shown on an effective
flood hazard boundary map or flood insurance rate map, once the as-built plans
are submitted and approved.
CONTROL STRUCTURE: A structure designed to control the rate of flow that passes
through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water surface
elevation.
DWR: Illinois Department of Transportation, Division of Water Resources.
DAM: All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
DEVELOPMENT: Any man-made change to real estate, including:
   A.   Construction, reconstruction, repair or placement of a building or any
addition to a building.
   B.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days.
   C.   Drilling, mining, installing utilities, construction of roads, bridges
or similar projects.
   D.   Demolition of a structure or redevelopment of a site.
   E.   Clearing of land as an adjunct of construction.
   F.   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams or culverts;
channel modification; filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving or other
nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface; storage of materials;
deposit of solid or liquid waste.
   G.   Any other activity of man that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface water; including extensive vegetation removal.
Development does not include maintenance of existing buildings and facilities
such as a re- roofing or resurfacing of roads when there is no increase in
elevation or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading or construction of levees.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATES: A form published by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that is used to certify the elevation to which a building has been
elevated.
EROSION: The general process whereby soils are moved by flowing water or wave
action.
EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS: Organizations which are exempt from this Chapter per the
Illinois Compiled Statutes, including State, Federal or local units of
government.
FEMA: Federal Emergency Management Agency and its regulations at 44 CFR 59-79
effective as of October 1, 1986. This incorporation does not include any later
editions or amendments.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the unusual
and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the flood plain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATES MAP (FIRM): A map prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that depicts the special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and flood plains and may or
may not depict floodways.
FLOOD OF RECORD: An actual historical flood event for which sufficient records
are available to establish its extent. No uniform probability of occurrence is
associated with floods of record. However, the probability of occurrence may be
determined for the event at specific locations. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
FLOOD PLAIN: That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground
surface elevation at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. Flood plains may also include detached special flood hazard areas,
ponding areas, etc. The flood plain is also known as the special flood hazard
area (SFHA). The flood plains are those lands within the jurisdiction of the
Village that are subject to inundation by the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood. The SFHAs of the Village are generally identified as such on the flood
insurance rate map of the Village prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and dated March 2, 1981. The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated Lake
County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village or that
may be annexed into the Village are generally identified as such on the flood
insurance rate map prepared for Lake County by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and dated November 3, 1982. (Ord. 91-09, 10-23-91)
FLOOD PROFILE: A graphical representation of the elevations of the water
surface of the 100-year flood along the watercourses of the Village.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood plus two feet (2') of freeboard at any given location in the
SFHA.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, unknown localized
conditions, wave actions and unpredictable effects such as those caused by ice
or debris jams.
HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS: Engineering analysis which determine
expected flood flows and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): Official determination by FEMA that a specific
structure is not in a 100-year flood zone; amends effective flood hazard
boundary map or FIRM.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): Letter that revises base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or
floodways as shown on an effective FHBM or FIRM.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
manufactured home also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on site for more than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MITIGATION: Mitigation includes the measures necessary to minimize the negative
effects which flood plain development activities might have on the public
health, safety and welfare. Examples of mitigation include compensatory
storage, soil erosion and sedimentation control and channel restoration.
NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM OF 1929 (NGVD): Reference surface set by the
National Geodetic Survey deduced from a continental adjustment of all existing
adjustments in 1929.
NATURAL: When used in reference to channels, means those channels formed by the
existing surface topography of the earth prior to changes made by man. A
natural stream tends to follow a meandering path; its flood plain is not
constrained by levees; the area near the bank has not been cleared, mowed or
cultivated; the stream flows over soil and geologic materials typical of the
area with no substantial alteration of the course of cross- section of the
stream caused by filling or excavating. A modified channel may regain some
natural characteristics over time as the channel meanders and vegetation is re-
established. Similarly, a modified channel may be restored to more natural
conditions by man through regrading and revegetation.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHWM): The point on the bank or shore up to which the
presence and action surface water is so continuous so as to leave a distinctive
mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial vegetation,
predominance of aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized characteristics.
PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT: A flood control project which will be operated
and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing buildings
and structures which includes a hydrologic and hydraulic study of the existing
and proposed conditions of the watershed. Nothing in this definition shall
preclude the design, engineering, construction or financing, in whole or in
part, of a flood control project by persons or parties who are not public
agencies.
PUBLICLY NAVIGABLE WATERS: All streams and lakes capable of being navigated by
watercraft.
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered in the State of Illinois
under the Illinois Land Surveyors Act (225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 330/1 -
330/34).
REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: An engineer registered in the State of
Illinois under the Illinois Professional Engineering Act (225 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 325/1 - 325/37). (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: The channel, including on-stream lakes, and that portion
of the flood plain adjacent to a stream or watercourse as designated by DWR,
which is needed to store and convey the existing and anticipated future 100-
year frequency flood discharge with no more than a one-tenth foot (0.1')
increase in stage due to the loss of flood conveyance or storage, and no more
than a ten percent (10%) increase in velocities. The regulatory floodways are
designated for Meadow Haven Creek and Irondale Creek on the flood boundary and
floodway map prepared by FEMA and dated March 2, 1981. The regulatory floodways
for those parts of unincorporated Lake County that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village that may be annexed into the
Village are designated for the Des Plaines River, Irondale Creek, Meadow Haven
Creek, and the Middle Fork North Branch Chicago River on the Lake County flood
boundary and floodway map prepared by Federal Emergency Management Agency and
dated November 3, 1982. For the Des Plaines River and the Middle Fork North
Branch Chicago River the regulatory floodways are also mapped on the DWR maps
entitled Illinois Department of Transportation/Division of Water Resources,
Regulatory Flood Plain, Des Plaines River-Main Stem, dated October 1978, and
IDOT/DOWR, Regulatory Flood Plain, North Branch Chicago River, dated January
1975 respectively. In the case of the Des Plaines River and the Middle Fork
North Branch Chicago River, the more restrictive floodway boundary, when
comparing the FEMA and DWR maps, should be used. To locate the regulatory
floodway boundary on any site, the regulatory floodway boundary should be
scaled off the regulatory floodway map and located on a site plan, using
reference marks common to both maps. Where interpretation is needed to
determine the exact location of the regulatory floodway boundary, the DWR
should be contacted for the interpretation. (Ord. 91-09, 10-23-91)
REPAIR, REMODELING OR MAINTENANCE: Development activities which do not result
in any increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes to the
dimensions of a structure.
RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY: A retention facility stores storm water runoff
without a gravity release. A detention facility provides for storage of storm
water runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a flood or
storm.
RIVERINE SFHA: Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek, intermittent
stream, ditch, on stream lake system or any other identified channel. This term
does not include areas subject to flooding from lakes, ponding areas, areas of
sheet flow or other areas not subject to overbank flooding.
RUNOFF: The water derived from melting snow or rain falling on the land
surface, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or
conduits.
SEDIMENTATION: The processes that deposit soils, debris and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or watercourses.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Any base flood area subject to flooding from
a river, creek, intermittent stream, ditch, or any other identified channel or
ponding and shown on a flood hazard boundary map or flood insurance rate map as
Zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, A99, AH, VO, V30, VE, V, M or E.
STRUCTURE: The results of a man-made change to the land constructed on or below
the ground, including the construction, reconstruction or placement of a
building or any addition to a building; installing a manufactured home on a
site, preparing a site for a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer
on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days.
SUBSTANTIAL: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure either, a) before the improvement or repair is started, or b) if the
structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
For the purposes of this definition "substantial improvement" is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural
part of the building commences whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include
either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure or site documented as deserving
preservation by the Illinois Department of Conservation or listed on the
National Register of Historic Places.
TRANSITION SECTION: Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from a
narrow cross-section to a wide cross-section or vice versa. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-
89)
8-8-6: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This Chapter's protection standard is based on the flood insurance study for
the Village. If a base flood elevation or 100-year frequency flood elevation is
not available for a particular site, then the protection standard shall be
according to the best existing data available in the Illinois State Water
Survey's Flood Plain Information Repository. When a party disagrees with the
best available data, he/she may finance the detailed engineering study needed
to replace existing data with better data and submit it to DWR and FEMA.
   A.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs
shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance
study of the Village prepared by FEMA and such amendments to such study and
maps as may be prepared, from time to time.
   B.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
those parts of unincorporated Lake County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the Village or that may be annexed into the Village shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance study of Lake
County prepared by FEMA and such amendments or revisions to such study and maps
as may be prepared, from time to time.
   C.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each SFHA
delineated as an "AH Zone" or "AO Zone" shall be that elevation (or depth)
delineated on the flood insurance rate map.
   D.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each of the
remaining SFHAs delineated as an "A Zone" on the flood insurance rate map shall
be according to the best existing data available in the Illinois State Water
Survey Flood Plain Information Repository. When no base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation for a riverine SFHA shall be determined from a
backwater model, such as HEC-II, WSP-2, or a dynamic model such as HIP. The
flood flows used in the hydraulic models shall be obtained from a hydrologic
model, such as HEC-I TR-20, or HIP, or by techniques presented in various
publications prepared by the United States Geological Survey for estimating
peak flood discharges. Flood flows should be based on anticipated future land
use conditions in the watershed as determined from adopted local and regional
land use plans. Along any watercourses draining more than one square mile, the
above analyses shall be submitted to DWR for approval. Once approved it must be
submitted to the Illinois State Water Survey Floodplain Information Repository
for filing. For a nonriverine SFHA, the base flood elevation shall be the
historic flood of record plus three feet (3'), unless calculated by a detailed
engineering study and approved by the Illinois State Water Survey. (Ord. 89-19,
8-10-89)
8-8-7: OFFICIAL ELEVATIONS:
The system of official bench marks and elevations already established in the
area by the NGVD shall hereafter be taken by engineers, surveyors, architects
and contractors when making topographic surveys and elevations of buildings,
pavements, drainage and other structures regulated by the Village. (Ord. 89-19,
8-10-89)
8-8-8: FLOOD FRINGE AREAS:
Development in and/or filling of the flood fringe will be permitted if
protection is provided against the base flood or 100-year frequency flood by
proper elevation, and compensatory storage and other provisions of this Chapter
are met. No use will be permitted which adversely affects the capacity of
drainage facilities or systems. Developments located within the flood fringe
shall meet the requirements of this Section, along with the requirements of
Section
8-8-11 of this Chapter. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-8-1: USES PERMITTED IN FLOOD FRINGE AREAS:
Only the following uses are permitted in flood plains regardless of the
regulations of any zone established by this Title:
   USES PERMITTED IN FLOOD FRINGE AREAS
Zone                            Uses Permitted
O LI AG SR-5 SR-2 SR-1 SR-1A
Zone                            Uses Permitted
O LI AG SR-5 SR-2 SR-1 SR-1A
x x  x  x                 Agriculture
x x  x  x    x    x    x     Arboretum or botanical garden
                             Buildings and associated accessory buildings and
x x                     uses; provided, there is a full compliance with
                             the flood fringe regulations as set forth herein
x x  x  x    x    x    x     Conservation club
x x  x  x    x             Flower farm
x x  x  x    x    x    x     Golf course
x x  x  x    x             Nursery, tree or shrub
x x  x  x    x             Orchard
x x  x  x    x    x    x     Park, public recreational
x x  x  x    x    x    x     Playground
x x  x  x    x    x    x     Public open land
                             Single-family residence and associated accessory
   x  x    x    x    x     buildings; provided, there is full compliance with
                             flood fringe regulations as set forth herein
x x  x  x    x    x    x     Temporary buildings and signs for construction
x x  x                   Truck farm
 
(Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-8-2: ZONING REGULATIONS:
In addition to the provisions of this Chapter as they apply to the flood plain,
the regulations for the zone in which such land is located shall continue in
full force and effect except for permitted uses. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-8-3: MINIMUM REQUIRED NET BUILDABLE LOT AREA:
Any lot or parcel of land for which flood fringe filling is permitted in
accordance with this Title or which contains flood fringe area which is not to
be filled or which contains any other man-made or natural pond or man-made
storm water detention or retention facility shall have as minimum of twenty
thousand (20,000) contiguous square feet of buildable land area. This buildable
land area shall also be contiguous to the public street frontage and shall be
within the building setback lines of the lot parcel. The buildable lot area
shall be the land with a ground elevation at or above the flood protection
elevation (FPE) or two feet (2') or more above the high water level of any
other pond or storm water detention or retention facility. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-
89)
8-8-8-4: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person not exempted by State law shall commence any development in the SFHA
without first obtaining a development permit from the Village.
   A.   Application for Permit: Application for a development permit shall be
made on a form provided by the Building Commissioner. The application shall be
accompanied by drawings of the site, drawn to scale, showing property line
dimensions and legal description for the property and sealed by a licensed
engineer, architect or land surveyor; existing grade elevations in M.S.L., 1929
adj. datum or N.G.V.D. and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or
filling; the location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings. For all proposed buildings, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and lowest adjacent grade shall be shown on the submitted
plans and the development will be subject to the requirements of Section
8-8-11 of this Chapter.
   B.   Comparison of Elevation Site: Upon receipt of a development permit
application, the Building Commissioner shall compare the elevation of the site
to the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation. Any development
located on land that can be shown to have been higher than the base flood
elevation as of the site's first flood insurance rate map identification is not
in the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the requirements of this Chapter.
The Building Commissioner shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
identification.
   C.   Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan: A soil erosion and
sedimentation control plan for disturbed areas shall be submitted. This plan
shall include a description of the sequence of grading activities and the
temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be implemented to mitigate
their effects. This plan shall also include a description of final
stabilization and revegetation measures, and the identification of a
responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance.
   D.   Copies of Permits to be Obtained: The Building Commissioner shall be
responsible for obtaining from the applicant, copies of all other local, State
and Federal permits, approvals or permit- not-required letters that may be
required for this type of activity. The Building Commissioner shall not issue a
permit unless all other local, State and Federal permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-8-5: PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES:
No development in the flood fringe shall create a threat to public health and
safety.
   A.   Removing Site From Flood Plain: If fill is being used to elevate the
site above the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation, the applicant
shall submit sufficient data and obtain a letter of map revision (LOMR) from
FEMA for the purpose of removing the site from the flood plain. (Ord. 89-19, 8-
10-89)
8-8-8-6: COMPENSATORY STORAGE:
Whenever any portion of a flood plain is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or a structure below the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated for and
balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken below the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation. The excavation volume shall
be at least equal to one and one-half (1.5) times the volume of storage lost
due to the fill or structure. In the case of streams and watercourses, such
excavation shall be made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or
occupied. All flood plain storage lost below the existing 100-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 100-year flood elevation. All
flood plain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such excavations shall
be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse. (Ord. 89-19, 8-
10-89)
8-8-9: FLOODWAYS:
This Section applies to proposed development, redevelopment, site modification
or building modification within a regulatory floodway. The regulatory floodway
shall be as delineated on the regulatory floodway maps designated by DWR
according and referenced in Section
8-8-5 of this Chapter. Only those uses and structures will be permitted which
meet the criteria in this Section. All floodway modifications shall be the
minimum necessary to accomplish the purpose of the project. The development
shall also meet the requirements of Section
8-8-11 of this Chapter. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-9-1: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person not exempted by State law shall commence any development in a
floodway without first obtaining a development permit from the Building
Commissioner.
   A.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form provided
by the Building Commissioner. The application shall include the following
information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant;
      2.   Site location (including legal description) of the property, drawn
to scale, on the regulatory floodway map, indicating whether it is proposed to
be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
      3.   Name of stream or body of water affected;
      4.   Description of proposed activity;
      5.   Statement of purpose of proposed activity;
      6.   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
      7.   Name and mailing address of the owner of the subject property if
different from the applicant;
      8.   Signature of applicant or the applicant's agent;
      9.   If the applicant is a corporation, the president or other authorized
officer shall sign the application form;
      10.   If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form;
      11.   If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign the
name of the trustee by him (her) as trust officer. A disclosure affidavit shall
be filed with the application, identifying each beneficiary of the trust by
name and address and defining the respective interests therein;
      12.   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include a
minimum:
         a.   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
         b.   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum of
N.G.V.D., adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control
easements, location of any channels and any existing or future access roads,
distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the proposed
construction is near a commercially navigable body of water), regulatory
floodway limit, flood plain limit, specifications and dimensions of any
proposed channel modifications, location and orientation of cross-sections,
north arrow, and a graphic or numerical scale;
         c.   Cross-section views of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal water
elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and graphic or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical);
         d.   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed
areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance;
         e.   A copy of the regulatory floodway map, marked to reflect any
proposed change in the regulatory floodway location.
      13.   Any and all other local, State and Federal permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development;
      14.   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the permit criteria of Section
8-8-9-2 of this Chapter;
      15.   If the regulatory floodway delineation, base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation will change due to the proposed project, the
application will not be considered complete until DWR has indicated conditional
approval of the regulatory floodway map change. No structures may be built
until a letter of map revision has been approved by FEMA;
      16.   The application for a structure shall be accompanied by drawings of
the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions and existing ground
elevations and all changes in grade resulting from any proposed excavation or
filling, and flood plain and floodway limits; sealed by a registered
professional engineer, licensed architect or registered land surveyor; the
location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings; and the
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed buildings
subject to the requirements of Section
8-8-11 of this Chapter;
      17.   If the proposed project involves a channel modification, the
applicant shall submit the following information:
         a.   A discussion of the purpose of and need for the proposed work;
         b.   A discussion of the feasibility of using alternative locations or
methods to accomplish the purpose of the proposed work;
         c.   An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts the
project would have on the physical and biological conditions of the body of
water affected;
         d.   An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts each
feasible alternative identified in subsection
8-8-9-3D1 of this Section would have on the physical and biological conditions
of the body of water affected; and
         e.   An analysis of the impacts of the proposed project, considering
cumulative effects on the physical and biological conditions of the body of
water affected.
   B.   The Building Commissioner shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other local, State and Federal permits and approvals
that may be required for this type of activity. The Building Commissioner shall
not issue the development permit unless all required Federal and State permits
have been obtained. A registered professional engineer, under the employ or
contract of the Village shall review and approve applications reviewed under
this Section. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-9-2: PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES AND A LIST OF APPROPRIATE USES:
The only development in a floodway which will be allowed are appropriate uses,
which will not cause a rise in the base flood elevation, and which will not
create a damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity
or be a threat to public health and safety and welfare or impair the natural
hydrologic and hydraulic functions of the floodway or channel, or permanently
impair existing water quality or aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be
minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as called for in this Chapter. Only
those appropriate uses listed in 92 Illinois Administrative Code 708 will be
allowed. Appropriate uses do not include the construction or placement of any
new structures, fill, building additions, buildings on stilts, excavation or
channel modifications done to accommodate otherwise nonappropriate uses in the
floodway, fencing (including landscaping or planting designed to act as a
fence) and storage of materials except as specifically defined above as an
appropriate use. The approved appropriate uses are as follows:
   A.   Flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public works or private
improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding, erosion or water
quality or habitat for fish and wildlife.
   B.   Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring access
to, the water or shoreline, such as pumping and treatment facilities, and
facilities and improvements related to recreational boating, commercial
shipping and other functionally water dependent uses;
   C.   Storm and sanitary sewer outfalls;
   D.   Underground and overhead utilities;
   E.   Recreational facilities such as playing fields and trail systems
including any related fencing (at least 50 percent open when viewed from any
one direction) built parallel to the direction of flood flows, and including
open air pavilions;
   F.   Bridges, culverts, roadways, sidewalks, railways, runways and taxiways
and any modification thereto;
   G.   Parking lots and any modifications thereto (where depth of flooding at
the 100-year frequency flood event will not exceed 1 foot) and aircraft parking
aprons built at or below ground elevation;
   H.   Regulatory floodway regrading, without fill, to create a positive
nonerosive slope toward a watercourse;
   I.   Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful
structures including the construction of water tight window wells, elevating
structures, or construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or
industrial principal structures where the outside toe of the floodwall shall be
no more than ten feet (10') away from the exterior wall of the existing
structure, and, which are not considered substantial improvements to the
structure;
   J.   In the case of damaged or replacement buildings, reconstruction or
repairs made to a building that is valued at less than fifty percent (50%) of
the market value of the building before it was damaged or replaced, and which
do not increase the outside dimensions of the building;
   K.   Additions to existing buildings above the BFE that do not increase the
building's foot print and are valued at less than fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the building. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-9-3: ENGINEERING AND MITIGATION CRITERIA:
Within the regulatory floodway as identified on the regulatory floodway maps
designated by DWR, the construction of an appropriate use, will be considered
permissible; provided that the proposed project meets the following engineering
and mitigation criteria and is so stated, in writing, with supporting plans,
calculations and data by a registered professional engineer and provided that
any structure meets the protection requirements of Section
8-8-11 of this Chapter:
   A.   Preservation of Flood Conveyance, so as not to Increase Flood Stages
Upstream: For appropriate uses other than bridge or culvert crossings, on-
stream structures or dams, all effective regulatory floodway conveyance lost
due to the project will be replaced for all flood events up to and including
the 100-year frequency flood. In calculating effective regulatory floodway
conveyance, the following factors shall be taken into consideration: (Ord. 89-
19, 8-10-89)
      1.   Regulatory floodway conveyance,
"K" = (1.482) (AR2/3)/n
where "n" is Manning's roughness factor, "A" is the effective area of the
cross-section, and "R" is the ratio of the area to the wetted perimeter. (See
"Open Channel Hydraulics", Ven Te Chow, 1959, McGraw-Hill Book Company, New
York). (Ord. 91-09, 10-23-91)
      2.   The same Manning's "n" value shall be used for both existing and
proposed conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement with a Federal,
State or local unit of government can assure the proposed conditions will be
maintained or the land cover is changing from a vegetative to a nonvegetative
land cover.
      3.   Transition sections shall be provided and used in calculations of
effective regulatory floodway conveyance. The following expansion and
contraction ratios shall be used unless an applicant's engineer can prove to
DWR through engineering calculations or model tests that more abrupt
transitions may be used with the same efficiency:
         a.   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider section,
the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one foot (1')
horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length.
         b.   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section,
the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot
(1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's length.
         c.   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a
minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of stream
length shall be used.
         d.   Transition sections shall be provided between cross-sections with
rapid expansions and contractions and when meeting the regulatory floodway
delineation on adjacent properties.
         e.   All cross-sections used in the calculations shall be located
perpendicular to flood flows.
   B.   Preservation of Floodway Storage so as to Not to Increase Downstream
Flooding: Compensatory storage shall be provided for any regulatory floodway
storage lost due to the proposed work from the volume of fill or structures
placed and the impact of any related flood control projects. Compensatory
storage for fill or structures shall be equal to at least one and one-half
(1.5) times the volume of flood plain storage lost. Artificially created
storage lost due to a reduction in head loss behind a bridge shall not be
required to be replaced. The compensatory regulatory floodway storage shall be
placed between the proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year
flood elevation. All regulatory floodway storage lost below the existing 10-
year flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood
elevation. All regulatory floodway storage lost above the existing 10-year
flood elevation shall be replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the
watercourse. If the compensatory storage will not be placed at the location of
the proposed construction, the applicant's engineer shall demonstrate to DWR
through a determination of flood discharges and water surface elevations that
the compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent. Finally, there shall be
no reduction in floodway surface area as a result of a floodway modification,
unless such modification is necessary to reduce flooding at existing structure.
   C.   Preservation of Floodway Velocities so as Not to Increase Stream
Erosion or Flood Heights: For all appropriate uses, except bridges or culverts
or on stream structures, the proposed work will not result in an increase in
the average channel or regulatory floodway velocities or stage, for all flood
events up to and including the 100-year frequency event. However, in the case
of bridges or culverts or on-stream structures built for the purpose of backing
up water in the stream during normal or flood flows, velocities may be
increased at the structure site if scour, erosion and sedimentation will be
avoided by the use of rip-rap or other design measures.
   D.   Construction of New Bridges or Culvert Crossings and Roadway
Approaches: The proposed structure shall not result in an increase of upstream
flood stages greater than one-tenth of one foot (0.1') when compared to the
existing conditions for all flood events up to and including the 100-year
frequency event; or the upstream flood stage increases will be contained within
the channel banks (or within existing vertical extensions of channel banks)
such as within the design protection grade of existing levees or flood walls or
within recorded flood easements. If the proposed construction will increase
upstream flood stages greater than one tenth of one foot (0.1'), the developer
must contact DWR, Dam Safety Section for a dam safety permit or waiver.
      1.   The engineering analysis of upstream flood stages must be calculated
using the flood study flows, and corresponding flood elevations for tailwater
conditions for the flood study specified in Section
8-8-6 of this Chapter. Culverts must be analyzed using the U.S. DOT, FHWA
Hydraulic Chart for the Selection of Highway Culverts. Bridges must be analyzed
using the U.S. DOT/Federal Highway Administration Hydraulics of Bridge
Waterways calculation procedures.
      2.   Lost floodway storage must be compensated for per subsection B of
this Section.
      3.   Velocity increases must be mitigated per subsection C of this
Section.
      4.   If the crossing is proposed over a public water that is used for
recreational or commercial navigation, a Department of Transportation permit
must be received.
      5.   The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the bridge
showing the existing condition and proposed regulatory profile must be
submitted to DWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required by Section
8-8-9-2 of this Chapter.
      6.   All excavations for the construction of the crossing shall be
designed per subsection H of this Section.
   E.   Reconstruction or Modification of Existing Bridges, Culverts and
Approach Roads:
      1.   The bridge or culvert and roadway approach reconstruction or
modification shall be constructed with no more than one tenth of one foot
(0.1') increase in backwater over the existing flood profile for all flood
frequencies up to and including 100-year event, if the existing structure is
not a source of flood damage.
      2.   If the existing bridge or culvert and roadway approach is a source
of flood damage to buildings or structures in the upstream flood plain, the
applicant's engineer shall evaluate the feasibility of redesigning the
structure to reduce the existing backwater taking into consideration the
effects on flood stages on upstream and downstream properties.
      3.   The determination as to whether or not the existing crossing is a
source of flood damage and should be redesigned must be prepared in accordance
with the Department of Transportation Rules 92 Illinois Administrative Code 708
(Floodway Construction in Northeastern Illinois) and submitted to the Division
for review and concurrence before a permit is issued.
   F.   On-Stream Structures Built for the Purpose of Backing Up Water: Any
increase in upstream flood stages greater than 0.0 foot when compared to the
existing conditions, for all flood events up to and including the 100-year
frequency event shall be contained within the channel banks (or within existing
vertical extensions of the channel banks) such as within the design protection
grade of existing levees or flood walls or within recorded flood easements. A
permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must be obtained from DWR,
Dam Safety Section, for a dam safety permit or waiver for any structure built
for the purpose of backing up water in the stream during normal or flood flow.
All dams and impoundment structures as defined in Section
8-8-5 of this Chapter shall meet the permitting requirements of 92 Illinois
Administrative Code 702 (Construction and Maintenance of Dams). If the proposed
activity involves a modification of the channel or floodway to accommodate an
impoundment, it shall be demonstrated that:
      1.   The impoundment is determined to be in the public interest by
providing flood control, public recreation, or regional storm water detention;
      2.   The impoundment will not prevent the migration of indigenous fish
species, which require access to upstream areas as part of their life cycle,
such as for spawning;
      3.   The impoundment will not cause or contribute to degraded water
quality or habitat conditions. Impoundment design should include gradual bank
slopes, appropriate bank stabilization measures and a pre-sedimentation basin;
      4.   A nonpoint source control plan has been implemented in the upstream
watershed to control the effects of sediment runoff as well as minimize the
input of nutrients, oil and grease, metals and other pollutants. If there is
more than one municipality in the upstream watershed, the municipality in which
the impoundment is constructed should coordinate with upstream municipalities
to ensure comprehensive watershed control;
      5.   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of Section
8-8-9 of this Chapter.
   G.   Floodproofing of Existing Habitable, Residential and Commercial
Structures: If construction is required beyond the outside dimensions of the
existing building, the outside perimeter of the floodproofing construction
shall be placed no further than ten feet (10') from the outside of the
building. Compensation of lost storage and conveyance will not be required for
floodproofing activities.
   H.   Excavation in the Floodway: When excavation is proposed in the design
of bridges and culvert openings, including the modifications to and replacement
of existing bridge and culvert structures, or to compensate for lost conveyance
for other appropriate uses, transition sections shall be provided for the
excavation. The following expansion and contraction ratios shall be used unless
an applicant's engineer can prove to DWR through engineering calculations or
model tests that more abrupt transitions may be used with the same efficiency:
      1.   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider section, the
water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one foot (1')
horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length;
      2.   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section, the
water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot (1')
horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's length;
      3.   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a
minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of stream
length shall be used.
      4.   Erosion/sewer protection shall be provided inland upstream and
downstream of the transition sections.
   I.   Channel Modifications: If the proposed activity involves a channel
modification, it shall be demonstrated that:
      1.   There are no practicable alternatives to the activity which would
accomplish its purpose with less impact to the natural conditions of the body
of water affected. Possible alternatives include levees, bank stabilization,
floodproofing of existing structures, removal of structures from the flood
plain, clearing the channel, high flow channel, or the establishment of a
stream side buffer strip or green belt. Channel modification is acceptable if
the purpose is to restore natural conditions and improve water quality and fish
and wildlife habitat.
      2.   Water quality, habitat, and other natural functions would be
significantly improved by the modification and no significant habitat area may
be destroyed, or the impacts are offset by the replacement of an equivalent
degree of natural resource values.
      3.   The activity has been planned and designed and will be constructed
in a way which will minimize its adverse impacts on the natural conditions of
the body of water affected, consistent with the following criteria:
         a.   The physical characteristics of the modified channel shall match
as closely as possible those of the existing channel in length, cross-section,
slope and sinuosity. If the existing channel has been previously modified,
conditions should be incorporated into channel modification design, where
practical.
         b.   Hydraulically effective transitions shall be provided at both the
upstream and downstream ends of the project, designed such that they will
prevent erosion.
         c.   One-sided construction of a channel shall be used when feasible.
Removal of streamside (riparian) vegetation should be limited to one side of
the channel, where possible, to preserve the shading and stabilization effects
of the vegetation.
         d.   Clearing of vegetation shall be limited to that which is
essential for construction of the channel.
         e.   Channel banks shall be constructed with a side slope no steeper
than three to one (3:1) horizontal to vertical, wherever practicable. Natural
vegetation and gradual side slopes are the preferred methods for bank
stabilization. Where high velocities or sharp bends necessitate the use of
alternative stabilization measures, natural rock or rip-rap are preferred
materials. Artificial materials such as concrete, gabions, or construction
rubble should be avoided unless there are no practicable alternatives.
         f.   All disturbed areas associated with the modification shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized as soon as possible upon completion of
construction. Erosion blanket or an equivalent material shall be required to
stabilize disturbed channel banks prior to establishment of the vegetative
cover.
         g.   If the existing channel contains considerable bottom diversity
such as deep pools, riffles and other similar features, such features shall be
provided in the new channel. Spawning and nesting areas and flow
characteristics compatible with fish habitat shall also be established, where
appropriate;
         h.   A sediment basin shall be installed at the downstream end of the
modification to reduce sedimentation and degradation of downstream water
quality.
         i.   New or relocated channels should be built in the dry and all
items of construction, including vegetation, should be completed prior to
diversion of water into the new channel.
         j.   There shall be no increases in stage or velocity as the channel
enters or leaves the project site for any frequency flood unless necessitated
by a public flood control project or unless such an increase is justified as
part of a habitat improvement or erosion and project.
         k.   Unless the modification is for a public flood control project,
there shall be no reduction in the volume of floodwater storage outside the
floodway as a result of the modification.
      4.   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of Section
8-8-9 of this Chapter.
   J.   Seeding and Stabilization Plan: For all activities located in a
floodway, a seeding and stabilization plan shall be submitted by the applicant.
   K.   Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Measures: For all activities in the
floodway, including grading, filling and excavation, in which there is
potential for erosion of exposed soil, soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures shall be employed consistent with the following criteria:
      1.   The construction area shall be minimized to preserve the maximum
vegetation possible. Construction shall be scheduled to minimize the time soil
is exposed and unprotected. In no case shall the existing natural vegetation be
destroyed, removed, or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days prior to the
initiation of improvements.
      2.   Temporary and/or permanent solid stabilization shall be applied to
denuded areas as soon as possible. As a minimum, soil stabilization shall be
provided within fifteen (15) days after final grade is reached on any position
of the site, and within fifteen (15) days to denuded areas which may not be at
final grade but will remain undisturbed for longer than sixty (60) days.
      3.   Sedimentation control measures shall be installed before any
significant grading or filling is initiated on the site to prevent the movement
of eroded sediments off site or into the channel. Potential sediment control
devices include filter fences, straw bale fences, check dams, diversion ditches
and sediment basins.
      4.   A vegetated buffer strip of at least twenty five feet (25') in width
shall be preserved and/or re-established where possible along existing channels
(see subsection P of this Section). Construction vehicle use of channels shall
be minimized. Temporary stream crossings shall be constructed, where necessary,
to minimize erosion. Necessary construction in or along channels shall be
reestablished immediately.
      5.   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be designed
and implemented consistent with "Procedures and Standards for Urban Soil
Erosion and Sedimentation Control in Illinois" (1988), also known as the "Green
Book" and "Standards and Specifications for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control"
(IEPA, 1987).
   L.   Public Flood Control Projects: For public flood control projects, the
permitting requirements of this Section will be considered met if the applicant
can demonstrate to DWR through hydraulic and hydrologic calculations that the
proposed project will not singularly or cumulatively result in increased flood
heights outside the project right of way or easements for all flood events up
to and including the 100-year frequency event.
   M.   General Criteria for Analysis of Flood Elevations:
      1.   The flood profiles, flows and floodway data in the regulatory
floodway study, referenced in Section
8-8-6 of this Chapter, must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If the
study data appears to be in error or conditions have changed, DWR shall be
contacted for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base conditions data
to use.
      2.   If the 100-year regulatory floodway elevation at the site of the
proposed construction is affected by backwater from a downstream receiving
stream with a larger drainage area, the proposed construction shall be shown to
meet the requirements of this Section for the 100-year frequency flood
elevations of the regulatory floodway conditions and conditions with the
receiving stream at normal water elevations.
      3.   If the applicant learns from DWR, local governments, or private
owner that a downstream restrictive bridge or culvert is scheduled to be
removed, reconstructed, modified, or a regional flood control project is
scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the next five
(5) years, the proposed construction shall be analyzed and shown to meet the
requirements of this Section for both the existing conditions and the expected
flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control project is
built.
   N.   Conditional Letter of Map Revision: If the appropriate use would result
in a change in the regulatory floodway location or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation, the applicant shall submit to DWR and to FEMA all the information,
calculations and documents necessary to be issued a conditional regulatory
floodway map revision and receive from DWR a conditional approval of the
regulatory floodway change before a permit is issued. However, the final
regulatory floodway map will not be changed by DWR until as-built plans or
record drawings are submitted and accepted by FEMA and DWR. In the case of
nongovernment projects, the municipality in incorporated areas and the county
in unincorporated areas shall concur with the proposed conditional regulatory
floodway map revision before DWR approval can be given. No filling, grading,
dredging or excavating shall take place until a conditional approval is issued.
No further development activities shall take place until a final letter of map
revision (LOMR) is issued by FEMA and DWR.
   O.   Professional Engineers' Supervision: All engineering analyses shall be
performed by or under the supervision of a registered professional engineer.
   P.   For all activities in the floodway involving construction within twenty
five feet (25') of the channel, the following criteria shall be met:
      1.   A natural vegetation buffer strip shall be preserved within at least
twenty five feet (25') of the ordinary high water mark of the channel.
      2.   Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during the
construction of an appropriate use, a vegetated buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction.
      3.   The use of native riparian vegetation is preferred in the buffer
strip. Access through this buffer strip shall be provided, when necessary, for
stream maintenance purposes. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-9-4: CONSTRUCTION OF CHANGES TO FLOODWAY:
After receipt of conditional approval of the regulatory floodway change and
issuance of a permit and a conditional letter of map revision, construction as
necessary to change the regulatory floodway designation may proceed but no
buildings or structures or other construction that is not an appropriate use
may be placed in that area until the regulatory floodway map is changed and a
final letter of map revision is received. The regulatory floodway map will be
revised upon acceptance and concurrence by DWR and FEMA of the "as-built"
plans. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-9-5: STATE REVIEW:
For those projects listed below located in a regulatory floodway, the following
criteria shall be submitted to DWR for their review and concurrence prior to
the issuance of a permit:
   A.   DWR will review an engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to a
proposed bridge pursuant to subsection
8-8-9-3D of this Chapter.
   B.   DWR will review an engineer's determination that an existing bridge or
culvert crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating
the proposed flood profile, pursuant to subsection
8-8-9-3E of this Chapter.
   C.   The DWR will review alternative transition sections and hydraulically
equivalent storage pursuant to subsections
8-8-9-3A, B and H of this Chapter.
   D.   The DWR will review and approve prior to the start of construction any
Department projects, dams (as defined in Section
8-8-5 of this Chapter) and all other State, Federal or local units of
government projects, including projects of the Municipality or County. (Ord.
89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-9-6: OTHER PERMITS:
In addition to the other requirements of this Chapter, a development permit for
a site located in a floodway shall not be issued unless the applicant first
obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is not required from
DWR, issued pursuant to 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5 et seq. No permit
from DWR shall be required if the Division has delegated this responsibility to
the Village. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-9-7: DAM SAFETY PERMITS:
Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of a dam as
defined in section 300.12 per 92 Illinois Administrative Code 702 (Rules for
Construction of Dams) shall obtain an Illinois Division of Water Resources dam
safety permit prior to the start of construction of a dam. If the Building
Commissioner finds a dam that does not have a DWR permit, the Building
Commissioner shall immediately notify the Dam Safety Section of the Division of
Water Resources. If the Building Commissioner finds a dam which is believed to
be in unsafe condition, the Building Commissioner shall immediately notify the
owner of the dam, DWR, Dam Safety Section in Springfield and the Illinois
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency (ESDA). (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-9-8: ACTIVITIES THAT DO NOT REQUIRE A REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER'S
REVIEW:
The following activities may be permitted without a registered professional
engineer's review. Such activities shall still meet the other requirements of
this Chapter, including the mitigation requirements:
   A.   Underground and overhead utilities that:
      1.   Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations, or
      2.   Do not require the placement of aboveground structures in the
floodway, or
      3.   In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the pipe or
encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing stream
bed, and
      4.   In the case of overhead utilities, no supporting towers are placed
in the watercourse and are designed in such a fashion as not to catch debris.
   B.   Storm and sanitary sewer outfalls that:
      1.   Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural
blank slope, and
      2.   Do not result in an increase in ground elevation, and
      3.   Are designed so as not to cause stream erosion at the outfall
location.
   C.   Construction of sidewalks, athletic fields (excluding fences), properly
anchored playground equipment and patios at grade.
   D.   Construction of shoreline and streambank protection that:
      1.   Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length.
      2.   Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of bank.
      3.   Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross-sectional area of
the stream channel or bank of the lake.
      4.   Vegetative stabilization and gradual side slopes are the preferred
mitigation methods of existing erosion problems. Where high channel velocities,
sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use of alternative stabilization
measures, natural rock or rip-rap are preferred materials. Artificial materials
such as concrete, construction rubble, and gabions should be avoided unless
there are no practicable alternatives.
   E.   Temporary stream crossings in which:
      1.   The approach roads will be five-tenths foot (0.5') or less above
natural grade.
      2.   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing up the
water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile or
outfall invert.
      3.   The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least two feet
(2') below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall be
nonerosive material, such as rip-rap or gravel.
      4.   All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise stabilized as
soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of construction.
      5.   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed within one
year after authorization. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-10: SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS (SFHA):
In SHFA or flood plains, where no floodways have been identified and no base
flood or 100-year frequency flood elevations have been established by FEMA, and
draining more than one square mile, no development shall be permitted unless
the cumulative effect of the proposals, when combined with all other existing
and anticipated uses and structures, shall not significantly impede or increase
the flow and passage of the floodwaters nor significantly increase the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-10-1: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person not exempted by State law, shall commence any development in a SFHA
or flood plain without first obtaining a development permit from the Building
Commissioner. Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the Building Commissioner. The application shall be accompanied by
drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions; and
existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or
filling, sealed by a licensed engineer, architect or surveyor; the location and
dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings and the elevation of the
lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the
requirements of Section
8-8-11 of this Chapter.
The application for a development permit shall also include the following
information:
   A.   A detailed description of the proposed activity, its purpose, and
intended use.
   B.   Site location (including legal description) of the property, drawn to
scale, on the regulatory floodway maps, indicating whether it is proposed to be
in an incorporated or unincorporated area.
   C.   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity.
   D.   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as a
minimum:
      1.   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of any
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of any site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
      2.   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, Elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or
NGVD, adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control
easements, distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the
proposed construction is near a commercially navigable body of water), flood
plain limit, location and orientation of cross-sections, north arrow and a
graphical or numerical scale;
      3.   Cross-section views of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal water
elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation and graphical or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical); and
      4.   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed areas.
This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading activities and
the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be implemented to
mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a description of final
stabilization and revegetation measures, and the identification of a
responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance.
   E.   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted showing
that the proposed work will meet the criteria of Section
8-8-10-4 of this Chapter.
   F.   Any and all other local, State and Federal permits or approvals that
may be required for this type of development. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-10-2: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
Based on the best available existing data according to the Illinois State Water
Survey's Flood Plain Information Repository, the Building Commissioner shall
compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation. Should no elevation information exist for the site, the developer's
engineer shall calculate the elevation according to subsection
8-8-6D of this Chapter. Any development located on land that can be shown to
have been higher than the base flood elevation as of the site's first flood
insurance rate map identification is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not
subject to the requirements of this Chapter. The Building Commissioner shall
maintain documentation of the existing ground elevation at the development site
and certification that this ground elevation existed prior to the date of the
site's first flood insurance rate map identification. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-10-3: OTHER PERMITS:
The Building Commissioner shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant
copies of all other local, State and Federal permits, approvals or permit-not-
required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The Building
Commissioner shall not issue the development permit unless all required local,
State and Federal permits have been obtained. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-10-4: PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES:
No development in the SFHA, where a floodway has not been determined shall
create a damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity
or threat to public health, safety and welfare or impair the natural hydrologic
and hydraulic functions of any floodway or channel, or impair existing water
quality or aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be minimized by
appropriate mitigation methods as called for in this Chapter. (Ord. 89-19, 8-
10-89)
8-8-10-5: RIVERINE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
Within all riverine SFHAs where the floodway has not been determined, the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   Engineer's Report: The developer shall have a registered professional
engineer state, in writing, and show through supporting plans, calculations and
data that the project meets the engineering requirements of subsections
8-8-9-3A through 3I of this Chapter for the entire flood plan as calculated
under the provisions of subsection
8-8-6D of this Chapter. As an alternative, the developer should have an
engineering study performed to determine a floodway and submit that engineering
study to DWR for acceptance as a regulatory floodway. Upon acceptance of their
floodway by the Department, the developer shall then demonstrate that the
project meets the requirements of Section
8-8-9 of this Chapter for the regulatory floodway. The floodway shall be
defined according to the definition in Section
8-8-5 of this Chapter.
   B.   DWR Permit; Exceptions: A development permit shall not be issued unless
the applicant first obtains a permit from DWR or written documentation that a
permit is not required from DWR.
   C.   Permit Responsibility: No permit from DWR shall be required if the
Division has delegated permit responsibility to the Village per 92 Illinois
Administrative Code, part 708 for regulatory floodways, per DWR's Statewide
Permit entitled "Construction in Flood Plains with No Designated Floodways in
Northeastern Illinois."
   D.   Dam Safety Permit: Any work involving the construction, modification or
removal of a dam or an on-stream structure to impound water as defined in
Section
8-8-5 of this Chapter shall obtain an Illinois Division of Water Resources dam
safety permit or letter indicating a permit is not required prior to the start
of construction of a dam. If the Building Commissioner finds a dam that does
not have a DWR permit, the Building Commissioner shall immediately notify the
Dam Safety Section of the Division of Water Resources. If the Building
Commissioner finds a dam which is believed to be in unsafe condition, the
Building Commissioner shall immediately notify the owner of the dam and the
Illinois Emergency Services and Disaster Agency (ESDA), and the DWR, Dam Safety
Section in Springfield.
   E.   Permitted Activities: The following activities may be permitted without
a registered professional engineer's review or calculation of a base flood
elevation and regulatory floodway. Such activities shall still meet the other
requirements of this Chapter:
      1.   Underground and overhead utilities that:
         a.   Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations, or
         b.   Do not require the placement of aboveground structures in the
floodway, or
         c.   In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the pipe
or encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing
streambed, and
         d.   In the case of overhead utilities, no supporting towers are
placed in the watercourse and are designed in such a fashion as not to catch
debris.
      2.   Storm and sanitary sewer outfalls that:
         a.   Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent
natural bank slope, and
         b.   Do not result in an increase in ground elevation, and
         c.   Are designed so as not to cause stream bank erosion at the
outfall location.
      3.   Construction of shoreline and streambed protection that:
         a.   Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length or two (2)
cubic yards per lineal foot of streambed.
         b.   Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of bank.
         c.   Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross-sectional area
of the stream channel by more than ten percent (10%).
         d.   Vegetative stabilization and gradual side slopes are the
preferred mitigation methods for existing erosion problems. Where high channel
velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use of alternative
stabilization measures, natural rock or rip-rap are preferred materials.
Artificial materials such as concrete, construction rubble, and gabions should
be avoided unless there are no practicable alternatives.
      4.   Temporary stream crossings in which:
         a.   The approach roads will be one-half foot (0.5') or less above
natural grade.
         b.   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing up
the water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage the or
outfall invert.
         c.   The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least two
feet (2') below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall be
nonerosive material, such as rip-rap or gravel.
         d.   All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise stabilized
as soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of construction.
         e.   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed within
one year after authorization.
      5.   The construction of light poles, sign post and similar structures;
      6.   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields (excluding
fences), patios and similar surfaces which are built at grade;
      7.   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports built at or below
existing grade that would not obstruct the flow of flood waters;
      8.   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding seventy
(70) square feet in size, nor ten feet (10') in any one dimension (e.g., animal
shelters and tool sheds);
      9.   The construction of additions to existing buildings which do not
increase the first floor area by more than twenty percent (20%), which are
located on the upstream or downstream side of the existing building, and which
do not extend beyond the sides of the existing building that are parallel to
the flow of flood waters;
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging of a stream channel where:
         a.   The affected length of stream is less than one thousand feet
(1,000'),
         b.   The work is confined to reestablishing flows in natural stream
channels, or
         c.   The cross-sectional area of the dredged channel conforms to that
of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site.
   F.   Flood Carrying Capacity: The flood carrying capacity within any altered
or relocated watercourse shall be maintained. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-10-6: COMPENSATORY STORAGE:
Whenever any portion of a flood plain is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated for and
balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from below
the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation. The excavation volume
shall be at least equal to one and one-half (1.5) times the volume of storage
lost due to the fill or structure. In the case of streams and watercourses,
such excavation shall be made opposite or adjacent to the areas as filled or
occupied. All flood plain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
flood plain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such excavations shall
be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse. (Ord. 89-19, 8-
10-89)
8-8-11: PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOOD PLAIN AREAS:
In addition to the requirements found in Sections
8-8-8,
8-8-9 and
8-8-10 of this Chapter for development in flood fringes, regulatory floodways
and SFHA or flood plains where no floodways have been identified (Zones A, AO,
AH, AE, A1-A30, A99, VO, V1-30, VE, V, M or E), the following requirements
shall be met. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-11-1: PUBLIC HEALTH STANDARDS:
   A.   No developments in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable
liquids, pollutants or other hazardous or toxic materials below the FPE.
   B.   New and replacement water supply systems, wells, sanitary sewer lines
and on-site waste disposal systems may be permitted providing all manholes or
other above ground openings located below the FPE are watertight. (Ord. 89-19,
8-10-89)
8-8-11-2: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained. In addition, the Village shall notify adjacent communities in
writing thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration
or relocation of the watercourse. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-11-3: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
All buildings located within a 100-year flood plain also known as a SFHA, shall
be protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. However,
existing buildings located within a regulatory floodway shall also meet the
more restrictive appropriate use standards included in Section
8-8-9 of this Chapter. This building protection criteria applies to the
following situations:
   A.   Construction or placement of a new building.
   B.   A structural alteration to an existing building that either increases
the first floor area by more than twenty percent (20%) or the building's market
value by more than fifty percent (50%).
   C.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured home
on an existing site. This building protection requirement does not apply to
returning a mobile home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was
removed to avoid flood damage.
   D.   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one hundred eighty
(180) days. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-11-4: BUILDING PROTECTION METHODS:
This building protection requirement may be met by one of the following
methods:
   A.   A residential or nonresidential building, when allowed, may be
constructed on permanent land fill in accordance with the following:
      1.   The lowest floor (including basement), shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
      2.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot (1')
deep before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation of the building before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
The top of the fill shall be above the flood protection elevation. However, the
ten feet (10') minimum may be waived if a structural engineer certifies an
alternative method to protect the building from damages due to hydrostatic
pressures. The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour. The fill
shall not adversely affect the flow or surface drainage from or onto
neighboring properties.
   B.   A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in accordance
with the following:
      1.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl space,
stilts, piles, walls, or other foundation that is permanently open to flood
waters and not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures of the base flood or
100-year frequency flood. The permanent openings shall be no more than one foot
(1') above grade, and consists of a minimum of two (2) openings. The openings
must have a total net area of not less than one square inch for every one
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation.
      2.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and aligned
in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize exposure
to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating debris.
      3.   All areas below the flood protection elevation shall be constructed
of materials resistant to flood damage. The lowest floor (including basement)
and all electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing and air conditioning
equipment and utility meters shall be located at or above the flood protection
elevation. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines, submersible
pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation.
      4.   No area below the flood protection elevation shall be used for
storage of items or materials.
      5.   Manufactured homes and travel trailers to be installed on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days, shall be elevated to or above the
flood protection elevation; and, shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement by being tied down in accordance with the Rules
and Regulations for the Illinois Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77
Illinois Administrative Code 870.
   C.   Only a nonresidential building may be structurally floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation); provided, that a registered professional engineer shall
certify that the building has been structurally dry floodproofed below the
flood protection elevation, the structure and attendant utility facilities are
watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood. The building design shall take into account velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of
buoyancy and impacts from debris or ice. Floodproofing measures shall be
operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity (levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection).
   D.   Nonconforming structures located in a regulatory floodway may remain in
use, but may not be enlarged, replaced or structurally altered. A nonconforming
structure damaged by flood, fire, wind or other natural or man-made disaster
may be restored unless the damage exceeds fifty percent (50%) of its market
value before it was damaged, in which case it shall conform to this Chapter.
(Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-11-5: UTILITY PROTECTION:
All service facilities such as electrical heating equipment, shall be
installed, constructed or otherwise protected so as to remain operational
should floodwaters reach the Flood Protection Elevation (FPE). Water supply and
wastewater collection and treatment systems and septic systems shall be
designed and constructed so as to prevent the entrance of floodwaters into
them. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-11-6: REVIEW OF PLANS:
All plans, drawings and other documents required for review in accord with the
requirements of this Chapter shall be reviewed by the Building Commissioner and
shall be submitted to both the Plan Commission and the Village Engineer for
their reviews and approvals prior to the issuance of any permit. The Village
Engineer shall also review and approve the applicant's cost estimate for any
and all work involved pursuant to this Chapter. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-11-7: GUARANTEES:
   A.   To assure satisfactory completion of the improvement, a cash bond or
approved letter of credit in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of
the approved cost estimate shall be deposited with the Village prior to the
issuance of a permit.
   B.   Upon satisfactory completion of the improvement, as determined by the
Village Engineer, the guarantee shall be returned to the applicant.
   C.   In addition, a cash bond or approved letter of credit in the sum of
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall be deposited with the Village for each
permit to insure the Village for any damage to roads, ditches, culverts and
other Village property as is required by Section
8-11-1 of this Title.
   D.   The Village reserved the right to use all or any part of the required
deposit to repair such damage and shall refund all unused portions of said cash
bond or letter of credit. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-11-8: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
Upon determination that all requirements have been met, a permit shall be
issued by the Building Commissioner. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-11-9: RECORDING:
Whenever the Building Commissioner shall issue a permit under the terms of this
Chapter, he shall cause a copy thereof, along with such supporting documents as
he shall determine to be necessary, to be recorded at the expense of the
applicant in the office of the Registrar of Deeds of Lake County. The recorded
documents shall include a plat or sketch of the property showing the nature of
the work permitted, the location (with elevations) and description of all work
and improvements to be permitted. The recorded documents shall include all
information necessary to give public notice of the terms, restrictions,
conditions and limitations imposed upon the use, occupancy, improvement and
ownership of the property under the permits issued. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-12: OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
The Village shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent that they are
known in all official actions related to land management, use and development.
(Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-12-1: NEW SUBDIVISIONS:
New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements and planned
unit developments (PUDs) within the SFHA shall be reviewed to assure that the
proposed developments are consistent with Sections
8-8-8,
8-8-9,
8-8-10 and
8-8-11 of this Chapter and the need to minimize flood damage. Plats or plans
for new subdivisions, mobile home parks and planned unit developments (PUDs)
shall include a signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
plat or plans account for changes in the drainage of surface water in
accordance with the Plat Act (765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 205/2).
   A.   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel trailer
parks, planned unit developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured home
parks and additions to subdivisions shall include base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation data and floodway delineations. Where this
information is not available from an existing study filed with the Illinois
State Water Survey, the applicant's engineer shall be responsible for
calculating the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation per subsection
8-8-6D of this Chapter and the floodway delineation per the definition in
Section
8-8-5 of this Chapter and submitting it to the State Water Survey and DWR for
review and approval as best available regulatory data.
   B.   Streets, block, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the flood plains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
   C.   The Village shall not approve any planned unit development (PUD) or
plat of subdivision located outside the corporate limits unless such agreement
or plat is in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 89-19, 8-
10-89)
8-8-12-2: ROADWAY ELEVATION:
The lowest elevation of any road or highway shall be at or above the flood
protection elevation (FPE). (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-13: VARIANCES:
No variances shall be granted to any development located in a regulatory
floodway, as defined in Section
8-8-5 of this Chapter. However, when a development proposal is located outside
of a regulatory floodway, and whenever the standards of this Chapter place
undue hardship on a specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to
the Zoning Board of Appeals for a variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall
review the applicant's request for a variance and shall submit his
recommendation to the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-13-1: STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES:
No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that:
   A.   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA;
   B.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not granted;
   C.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
   D.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety, beneficial
stream uses and functions, especially aquatic habitat or creation of a
nuisance;
   E.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection, lost
environmental stream uses and functions, rescue or relief operations, policing
or repairs to stream beds and banks, roads, utilities or other public
facilities;
   F.   The provisions of Sections
8-8-8-5 and
8-8-10-4 of this Chapter shall still be met;
   G.   The activity is not in a regulatory floodway;
   H.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not represent a general
problem; and
   I.   The granting of the variance will not alter the essential character of
the area involved including existing stream uses. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-13-2: NOTICE TO APPLICANT:
The Village Board of Trustees shall notify an applicant, in writing, that a
variance from the requirements of Section
8-8-11 of this Chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
   A.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as
high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars ($100.00) of
insurance coverage;
   B.   Increase the risks to life and property; and
   C.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that he will acknowledge, in writing, that he assumes the risk and liability. A
copy of said notice shall be recorded by the Village with the Lake County
Recorder of Deeds. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-13-3: VARIANCE FOR HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES:
Variances requested in connection with restoration of a site or building listed
on the National Register of Historical Places or documented as worthy of
preservation by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency may be granted using
criteria more permissive than the requirements of Sections
8-8-13-1 and
8-8-13-2 of this Chapter. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-14: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this Chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur or flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This
Chapter does not imply that development, either inside or outside of the SFHA,
will be free from flooding or damage. This Chapter does not create liability on
the part of the Village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from reliance on this Chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-15: PENALTY:
Failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a variance
resolution shall be deemed to be a violation of this Chapter. Upon due
investigation, the Building Commissioner may determine that a violation of the
minimum standards of this Chapter exists. The Building Commissioner shall
notify the owner, in writing, of such violation. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-15-1: FAILURE TO CORRECT VIOLATION:
If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the violation:
   A.   The Village may make application to the Circuit Court for an injunction
requiring conformance with this Chapter or make such other order as the Court
deems necessary to secure compliance with the Chapter.
   B.   Any person who violates this Chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense.
   C.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
   D.   The Village may record a notice of violation on the title to the
property. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-15-2: SUSPENSION OF STANDARD FLOOD INSURANCE POLICY:
The Building Commissioner shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and, therefore, may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended. (Ord. 89-19, 8-
10-89)
8-8-15-3: OTHER LAWFUL ACTION:
Nothing herein shall prevent the Village from taking such other lawful action
to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall accrue
to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-16: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This Chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. Where this Chapter and other
ordinances, easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. This Chapter
is intended to repeal the original ordinance or resolution which was adopted to
meet the National Flood Insurance Program regulations, but is not intended to
repeal the resolution which the Village passed in order to establish initial
eligibility for the program. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-17: SEPARABILITY:
The provisions and sections of this Chapter shall be deemed separable and the
invalidity of any portion of this Title shall not affect the validity of the
remainder. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
8-8-18: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This Chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
approval and publication, as required by law. (Ord. 89-19, 8-10-89)
CHAPTER 9
NONCONFORMING LOTS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
8-9-1: Legal Nonconformances
8-9-2: Nonconforming Recorded Lots
8-9-3: Nonconforming Structures
8-9-4: Nonconforming Uses
8-9-5: Relief From Setback Regulations
8-9-1: LEGAL NONCONFORMANCES:
It is the intent of this title to permit "legal nonconformances", as defined
herein, to continue until terminated either by voluntary act or by catastrophic
event, and to encourage their conversion to conformance where possible. (Ord.
76-02, 6-23-1976)
8-9-2: NONCONFORMING RECORDED LOTS:
   A.   Separate Ownership: A nonconforming recorded lot owned separately and
individually from all adjoining tracts of land shall be subject to the
following provisions:
      1.   Permitted Uses: A nonconforming recorded lot may be used for a
single-family dwelling and accessory uses.
      2.   Yards: All yards shall be the same as set forth for conforming lots
for the zoning district in which the lot is located.
      3.   Bulk: All bulk requirements shall be the same as set forth for
conforming lots for the zoning district in which the lot is located.
   B.   Common Ownership: Where two (2) or more lots or combinations of lots
and portions of lots with continuous frontage and with a combined area of forty
thousand (40,000) square feet or less and less than the area prescribed for the
zone in which the lots are located are under a common ownership, they shall be
considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this section. Lots or
parts of lots resulting from the division of such nonconforming lots held in
common ownership at the time of or subsequent to the effective date hereof
shall not be entitled to zoning certificates or building permits as provided in
chapter 11 of this title. The zone, use, and lot requirements of these lots
shall be the same as those specified in subsection A of this section.
   C.   Construction, Repair, And Alteration: Construction of new buildings or
repair of existing buildings that are being used for permitted uses but are
located on nonconforming recorded lots shall be permitted. If any building is
damaged or destroyed, it can be rebuilt for its original permitted use to the
extent of its original development, or a new building can be constructed for
any use to the extent permitted in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 76-02,
6-23-1976)
8-9-3: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Any "nonconforming structure" as defined in section
8-2-2 of this title, shall be subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Moving: No nonconforming structure shall be moved in whole or in part,
for any distance whatsoever, to any other location on the same or any other lot
or tract, unless the entire structure and use thereof shall thereafter conform
to the regulations of the zoning district in which it is located after being so
moved.
   B.   Damage Or Destruction: No nonconforming structure that is damaged or
destroyed, by any means, to the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of the
fair cash value of the structure destroyed, shall be restored unless the use of
such structure shall thereafter conform to the use regulations of the zoning
district in which it is located and unless such restoration is accomplished
without creating any new structural or parking or loading nonconformity or
increasing the degree of any nonconformity existing prior to such damage or
destruction. In determining whether a parking or loading nonconformity has been
created or increased, the provisions of the parking regulations of this code
shall control.
      1.   When any such structure is damaged or destroyed by any means not
within the control of the owner thereof to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or
less of the fair cash value of the structure so damaged or destroyed, repair or
restoration of the structure may be made; provided, however, that no repairs or
restorations shall be made that would create any new nonconformity or increase
the degree or intensity of any nonconformity existing prior to such damage or
destruction, nor shall any repairs or restoration except in conformity with the
applicable zoning district regulations be made unless a zoning certificate of
compliance is obtained and restoration is actually begun within one year after
the date of such partial damage or destruction and is diligently pursued to
completion.
      2.   In no event shall any damage or destruction to such structure by
means within the control of the owner thereof be repaired or restored except in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Termination By Discontinuance Or Abandonment: When a nonconforming
structure or use of any land is discontinued or abandoned for a period of
twelve (12) consecutive months, regardless of any intent to resume or not to
abandon such use, such use shall not thereafter be reestablished or resumed.
Any subsequent use or occupancy of such structure or land shall comply with the
use regulations of the zoning district in which such structure or land is
located. Any period of such discontinuance caused by government action,
strikes, material shortages, or acts of God and which are without any
contributing fault by the nonconforming user, shall not be considered in
calculating the length of discontinuance for purposes of this section.
   D.   Authority To Continue: Any nonconforming structure may be continued so
long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the regulations, limitations
and amortization contained in this chapter.
   E.   Damage Or Destruction: Any nonconforming structure that is damaged or
destroyed by any means not within the control of the owner thereof, to any
extent. (Ord. 2001-O-03, 2-28-2001)
8-9-4: NONCONFORMING USES:
Any "nonconforming use", as defined in section
8-2-2 of this title, shall be subject to the following regulations:
   A.   No Extension Or Expansion Of Use: No nonconforming use shall be
extended, expanded, enlarged or increased in intensity. Such prohibited
activity shall include, without being limited to:
      1.   Extension of a nonconforming use to any building or other structure
or land area other than one occupied by such use on the effective date hereof
(or on the effective date of a subsequent amendment hereto that causes such use
to become nonconforming).
      2.   Extension of a nonconforming use within a building or other
structure to any portion of the floor area that was not occupied by such use on
the effective date hereof (or on the effective date of a subsequent amendment
thereto that causes such use to become nonconforming); provided, however, that
a nonconforming use may be extended throughout any part of such building or
other structure that was lawfully and manifestly designed or arranged for such
use on such effective date.
      3.   Operation of a nonconforming use in such manner as to conflict with,
or further conflict with if already conflicting on the effective date hereof
(or on the effective date of a subsequent amendment thereto that results in
such use becoming nonconforming), any performance standards established for the
district in which the use is located.
   B.   Extension Or Addition: No extension or addition shall be made to any
structure containing a nonconforming use.
   C.   Alterations And Repairs: Normal maintenance and incidental repair or
replacement, and installation or relocation of nonbearing walls, nonbearing
partitions, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, may be performed on any structure
devoted in whole or in part to, or that is accessory to, a nonconforming use;
provided, however, that this section shall not be deemed to authorize any
violation of this chapter.
   D.   Structural Alteration: No structure devoted in whole or in part to, or
that is accessory to, a nonconforming use, shall be structurally altered unless
the use thereof shall thereafter conform to the use regulations of the zoning
district in which it is located.
   E.   Enlargement Of Structure: No structure devoted in whole or in part to,
or that is accessory to, a nonconforming use shall be enlarged or added to in
any manner, including the interior addition of floor area, unless the use of
such structure shall thereafter conform to the use regulations of the zoning
district in which it is located.
   F.   Extension Of Use: No nonconforming use shall be extended, expanded,
enlarged or increased in intensity except that a nonconforming use located in a
structure not designed or intended for any use permitted or specifically
permitted in the zoning district in which such structure is located may be
extended throughout any part of such structure lawfully existing on the
effective date of this code; provided, however, that such extension shall not
be allowed unless parking and loading spaces required for such extension can
be, and are, provided in accordance with the requirements and restrictions of
the parking regulations of this code. No such extension shall be deemed to
affect the duty to terminate such use pursuant to this section. The extensions,
expansions, enlargements and increases in intensity prohibited by this code
shall include, without being limited to:
      1.   Any extension of such use including its accessory uses, to any
structure or land area other than that occupied by such nonconforming use on
the effective date of this code; and
      2.   Except as expressly permitted above, any extension of such use,
including its accessory uses, within a building or other structure to any
portion of the floor area that was not occupied by such nonconforming use on
the effective date of this code; and
      3.   Any extension of the hours of operation of such use beyond the
normal hours of operation on the effective date of this code.
   G.   Change In Use: No nonconforming use shall be changed to any other use
other than a use permitted or specially permitted in the zoning district in
which the use is located. When such a nonconforming use has been changed to a
permitted or specially permitted use, it shall not thereafter be changed back
to a nonconforming use. For purposes of this section, a use shall be deemed to
have been so changed when an existing nonconforming use shall have been
terminated and a permitted or specially permitted use shall have commenced and
continued for a period of five (5) days. Any change of use in violation of this
section shall be deemed to be an abandonment of the nonconforming use.
   H.   Moving: No nonconforming use of land shall be moved, in whole or in
part, for any distance whatsoever, to any other location on the same or any
other lot, unless such use shall thereafter conform to all regulations of the
zoning district in which it is located after being so moved. (Ord. 2001-O-03,
2-28-2001)
8-9-5: RELIEF FROM SETBACK REGULATIONS:
Buildings located in a commercial zoning district or in an industrial zoning
district which have front yard or corner side yard setbacks that are rendered
nonconforming due to changes in abutting public street rights-of-way occurring
after May 1, 2020, either through the acquisition by a public entity or through
the donation of private roadway easements to a public entity shall be
considered to be legal nonconforming buildings in respect to the buildings
front yard or corner side yard setbacks. These buildings that have become legal
nonconforming due to changes in abutting public street rights-of-way are not
exempt from the other provisions in the Village of Green Oaks Zoning Ordinance
related to nonconforming uses, other bulk standards and other site condition
standards of the zoning district where the subject property is located. (Ord.
2020-O-03, 4-22-2020)
CHAPTER 10
SPECIAL USES AND VARIATIONS
SECTION:
8-10-1: Special Uses
8-10-1-1: Public Special Uses
8-10-1-2: Private Special Uses
8-10-1-3: Specific Cluster Subdivision Development
8-10-2: Variations
8-10-2-1: Reserved
8-10-2-2: Historical Structures
8-10-2-3: Greenbriers' Subdivision
8-10-1: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Classification Established: To provide for the location of certain uses
hereinafter specified which are deemed desirable for the public welfare within
a given district or districts, but which might have an adverse effect upon
nearby properties, or upon the character and future development of the district
in which they are located, a classification of special uses is hereby
established. Procedures for special uses are as set forth hereinafter.
   B.   Special Use Categories: The development and execution of a
comprehensive zoning ordinance is based upon the division of the Village into
districts within any one of which the use of land and buildings and location of
buildings or structures as related to the land are essentially uniform. It is
recognized, however, that there are special uses which, because of their unique
character, cannot be properly classified in any particular district or
districts without consideration, in each case, of the impact of those uses upon
neighboring lands and upon the public need for the particular use of the
particular location. Such special uses fall into two (2) categories:
      1.   Public Uses: Uses operated either by a public agency or publicly
related utilities, or uses traditionally affected with a public interest, and
      2.   Private Uses: Uses entirely private in character but of such a
nature that the operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to
their impact upon neighboring property or public facilities. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-
1960)
   C.   Procedure: Special uses shall be considered and acted upon in the
manner prescribed herein for amendments to this Title 1 . (Ord. 91-04, 6-26-
1991)
      1.   Special Use Notice Procedure: (Rep. by Ord. 96-06, 3-27-1996)
      2.   Plan Commission Report: The report of the Plan Commission shall
include findings of fact as to each of the standards established in this Title
for such special use, and its recommendations of conditions, if any, to be
imposed as reasonably necessary to meet such standards.
      3.   Easements, Dedications, Covenants, Etc.: Whenever any conditions are
imposed as being reasonably necessary to meet the standards for a special use,
a special use permit shall not be issued until those conditions shall, insofar
as is feasible, be imposed and recorded as easements, dedications, grants,
conveyances or as covenants running with the land, as the case may be, and
shall be enforceable by the Village as a covenantee or grantee.
      4.   Permanent Use, Cancellation, Reversion: Whenever a special use
permit is issued under this Chapter, the use of the entire parcel approved
shall thereafter be permanently limited to the special uses set forth in the
special use permit, unless changed by a subsequent special use permit issued
after new notice and hearings as herein required; provided, however, that if no
part of the use permitted has been built or established within eighteen (18)
months after the special use permit is issued, the permit thereupon shall be
void and parcel shall revert to being subject to the provisions of this Title,
and all easements, covenants, etc., recorded pursuant to the provisions of
subsection C3 of this Section shall be released. (Ord. 91-04, 6-26-91)
   D.   In the event that a special use permit is granted pursuant to this
Section and no subdivision of the parcel has been recorded within eighteen (18)
months after the special use permit is issued, the permit thereupon shall be
void and the parcel shall revert to being subject to the provisions of this
Title previously affecting the parcel. (Ord. 91-10, 12-18-91)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  8-11-6 of this Title.
8-10-1-1: PUBLIC SPECIAL USES:
   A.   The standards for a public special use in nonresidential districts
shall be as follows:
      1.   Lot Standards in Office District Zone: All special use public
buildings or uses shall meet the following standards:
a. Minimum lot area                               80,000 sq. ft.
b. Minimum net lot area excluding                  
setbacks and all easements for utilities,          
drainage and access                               44,800 sq. ft.
c. Minimum lot frontage                           200 ft.
d. Minimum front setback for buildings,            
parking, loading and internal circulation         50 ft.
e. Minimum rear and side setback for               
buildings                                         30 ft.
f. Minimum rear setback for parking,               
loading and internal circulation                  20 ft.
g. Minimum side setback for parking,               
loading and internal circulation                  12 ft.
h. Minimum front, rear and side setback            
for buildings from any adjoining residential zone 50 ft.
i. Maximum building coverage                      25%
j. Maximum floor area                             50%
k. Maximum building height                        45 ft. or 3 stories
 
      2.   Lot Standards in Limited Industrial Zone: All special use public
buildings or uses shall meet the following standards:
a. Minimum lot area                               40,000 sq. ft.
b. Minimum net lot area excluding set-             
backs and all easements for utilities, drainage    
and access                                        22,743 sq. ft.
c. Minimum lot frontage                           130 ft.
d. Minimum front setback for buildings,            
parking, loading and internal circulation         35 ft.
e. Minimum rear and side setback for               
buildings                                         20 ft.
f. Minimum rear and side setback for               
parking, loading and internal circulation         5 ft.
g. Minimum front, rear and side setback            
for buildings from any adjoining residential zone 50 ft.
h. Maximum building coverage                      45%
i. Maximum floor area                             60%
j. Maximum building height                        65 ft. or 5 stories
 
      3.   Lot Standards in Intensive Industrial Zone: All special use public
buildings and uses shall meet the following standards:
a. Minimum lot area                               40,000 sq. ft.
b. Minimum net lot area excluding set-             
backs and all easements for utilities, drainage    
and access                                        22,743 sq. ft.
c. Minimum lot frontage                           130 ft.
d. Minimum front setback for buildings,            
parking, loading and internal circulation         35 ft.
e. Minimum rear and side setback for               
buildings                                         20 ft.
f. Minimum rear and side setback for               
parking, loading and internal circulation         5 ft.
g. Minimum front, rear and side setback            
for buildings from any adjoining residential zone 50 ft.
h. Maximum building coverage                      45%
i. Maximum floor area                             60%
 
      4.   Lot Standards in Community Business Zone: All special use public
buildings and uses shall meet the following standards:
a. Minimum lot area                             20,000 sq. ft.
b. Minimum net lot area excluding set-           
backs and all easements for utilities, drainage  
and access                                      10,500 sq. ft.
c. Minimum lot frontage                         100 ft.
d. Minimum front setback for buildings,          
parking, loading and internal circulation       30 ft.
e. Minimum rear setback for buildings           20 ft.
f. Minimum side setback for buildings           15 ft.
g. Minimum rear and side setback for            5 ft.
parking, loading and internal circulation
h. Maximum building coverage                    20%
i. Maximum floor area                           50%
j. Maximum building height                      65 ft. or 5
                                                stories
 
   B.   General Requirements for Public Special Uses in All Districts:
      1.   Storm Water Detention: All special use public buildings and uses
shall have on-site storm water detention, unless said detention is otherwise
provided within the subdivision in which the lot is located. Such detention
shall be in accord with the standards established in the land subdivision
regulations of this Code.
      2.   Parking, Loading and Traffic: All special use public buildings and
uses shall have off-street parking, loading and internal circulation designed
to meet one hundred percent (100%) of that required for the proposed use at
peak occupancy.
         a.   The determination of the number of parking and loading spaces and
internal circulation pattern shall be determined and designed by a licensed
professional engineer in accord with the most current standards and guidelines
published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE), 525 School
Street, S.W., Suite 410, Washington, D.C. 20024.
         b.   All parking, loading and internal circulation shall be paved.
         c.   All required loading facilities shall be in accord with Section
8-7-5-15 of this Title.
      3.   Design Criteria: All special use public buildings and uses shall
conform with the design criteria set forth in Section
8-7-5-3 of this Title.
      4.   Landscaping: All special use public buildings and uses shall conform
with the landscaping standards set forth in Sections
8-7-5-16 and
8-7-5-17 of this Title.
      5.   Design Review: All special use public buildings and uses shall
conform with the design review standards set forth in Section
8-7-5-18 of this Title.
      6.   Sanitary Sewers: All special use public buildings and uses shall be
served by public sanitary sewers.
      7.   Other Conditions: All special use public buildings and uses shall
meet such other and further conditions or requirements as the Village
authorities may set forth when permitting the development or use of a
particular building or use as a special use.
      8.   Building Permits and Certificates of Occupancy: All special use
public buildings or uses shall conform with the building permit and certificate
of occupancy standards set forth in Section
8-7-5-19 of this Title.
   C.   Standards for Churches and Schools: Standards for churches and schools
in residential districts shall be as set forth in Sections
8-3-3 and
8-3-4 respectively in this Title, in addition to the standards set forth in
subsection B of this Section. (Ord. 91-04, 6-26-91)
8-10-1-2: PRIVATE SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Private special uses shall conform to the various requirements and
standards set forth in the provisions of this Chapter relating to those uses.
In addition, the Village authorities shall find that the impact of those
special uses upon the district in which they are to be located is not contrary
to the general purpose of the district and will not adversely affect the
permitted uses in the district. (Ord. 91-04, 6-26-91)
8-10-1-3: SPECIFIC CLUSTER SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT:
The special use of a certain premises (description to follow) as a cluster
subdivision development in accordance with the approved sketch plan, is hereby
permitted, providing that such subdivision and use is subject to the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth.
   A.   Description of Premises: Lot 1 of the Northeast 1/4 of Section 2,
Township 44 North, Range 11, East of the Third Principal Meridian, excepting
that part lying East of the West line of the Illinois Toll Highway, said West
line described as follows: Beginning at a point in the South line of said
Northeast 1/4, 466.69 feet West of the Southeast corner thereof; thence
Northwesterly along a line forming an angle of 83 degrees, 21 minutes and 34
seconds West to North, to the North line of said lot 1 of the Northeast 1/4 in
Lake County, Illinois.
   B.   Conformance with Subdivision Regulations and Sketch Plat Required: The
cluster subdivision development shall be a single unit subdivision and shall
conform in all respects to the provisions of the subdivision regulations of the
Village 1  and shall be in substantial conformity to the approved sketch plat.
   C.   Use as a Private Equestrian Club:
      1.   Use Restrictions: The area of the cluster subdivision shown on the
approved sketch plat as lot 16, shall be limited permanently to a special use
known as a "private equestrian club" and shall be used in strict observation of
and in conformity with the following restrictions and conditions with regard to
the use of said Lot 16 and the cluster subdivision:
         a.   The leasing of box stalls shall reflect the following priority:
            (1)   Owners of lots within cluster subdivisions.
            (2)   Residents of the Village.
            (3)   Nonresidents of the Village.
         b.   No commercial activity shall be permitted on the equestrian club,
with the exception of the following permitted activities:
            (1)   The training, grooming and boarding of horses and sale of
supplies to the owners of horses boarded at the equestrian club;
            (2)   The sale of equestrian lessons to owners of horses boarded at
the equestrian club;
            (3)   The resale of tack and other goods associated with equestrian
activities only to owners of horses boarded at the equestrian club;
            (4)   The sale of horses which are boarded at the equestrian club;
            (5)   The holding of equestrian shows or contests, limited to
horses boarded at the equestrian club. No other horse shows or contests of any
type shall be permitted;
            (6)   Grooming, stall cleaning and other services in conjunction
with the leasing of box stalls may be provided by an independent contractor and
shall meet all requirements of the Lake County Health Department;
            (7)   The club facilities will be limited to a maximum of sixty
(60) box stalls and no more than sixty (60) horses shall be permitted on the
premises.
      2.   Improvements: Improvements of Lot 16 shall strictly conform to the
following limitations:
         a.   There shall be thirty foot (30') setbacks from all lot lines on
Lot 16.
         b.   There shall only be one single-family residential building
permitted on Lot 16.
         c.   Any fencing or equestrian apparatus on Lot 16 shall be placed ten
feet (10') or more from the lot line and shall not exceed seven feet (7') in
height.
         d.   No building shall be erected on Lot 16 exceeding twenty five feet
(25') in height over the crown of the adjacent roadway.
         e.   Accessory buildings on Lot 16 shall be limited to barns, an arena
building and related equestrian buildings of a maximum size of twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet.
         f.   No buildings shall be erected on Lot 16 without review of said
buildings by the Libertyville Fire Protection District.
      3.   Easements And Covenants: The following easements and covenants shall
be provided and maintained:
         a.   An easement shall be established against Lot 16, requiring a
horse pathway be established on the street right of way from Lot 16 to O'Plaine
Road, with the proper construction and surface for riding horses and that the
pathways be cleaned and maintained by the operators of the equestrian
facilities on Lot 16.
         b.   A covenant shall be set forth on the plat of subdivision for the
Equestrian Oaks area showing the horse riding pathway on public right of way
(street).
         c.   A covenant shall be set forth on the plat of subdivision for the
Equestrian Oaks area restricting the presence or keeping of horses to Lot 16
and the pathway area.
      4.   Reversion: In the event that the use of Lot 16 as an equestrian
facility is abandoned, or the foregoing conditions are not satisfied at any
time, the use of Lot 16 shall revert to permanent open space and no use or
improvement thereon shall be permitted, other than the maintenance of one
single- family residence use. All buildings, structures and improvements
relating to equestrian use on said Lot 16 (other than such single-family
residence and structures accessory thereto) shall be removed in the event that
use as an equestrian facility is abandoned. (Ord. 81-06, 3-25-1981; amd. Ord.
91-04, 6-26-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
8-10-2: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Authority: The Board of Trustees may determine and vary the application
of the regulations established in this Title in harmony with its general
purpose and intent and in accordance with the rules contained herein in cases
where there are practical difficulties or particular hardships in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of these regulations relating to the use,
construction or alteration of buildings or structures or the use of land. The
power to determine and approve variations shall be exercised only by the
adoption of ordinances.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Variations shall be made only in a specified case
and after public meeting before the Zoning Board of Appeals. There shall be
notice of the time and place of the hearing published at least once, not more
than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing in a
newspaper published in the Village, or if no newspaper is published therein,
then in a newspaper with a general circulation within the Village. This notice
shall contain the particular location for which the variation is requested as
well as a brief statement of what the proposed variation consists. In addition
to said published notice, the applicant for variation shall cause a copy of the
published notice to be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, at
least five (5) days before the hearing, to the person in whose name the last
taxes were billed of every lot or parcel which lies within five hundred feet
(500') of the boundaries of the lot or parcel upon which the variation is
proposed.
   C.   Decisions: After the public hearing and upon the report of the Zoning
Board of Appeals, the Board of Trustees, by ordinance, without further public
hearing may adopt any proposed variation, or may refer it back to the Zoning
Board of Appeals for further consideration. Any proposed variation which fails
to receive the approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall not be passed
except by the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all Trustees of the
Village.
   D.   Rules Governing Variations: Variations shall be recommended by the
Zoning Board of Appeals and approved by the Board of Trustees only if the
evidence shows the following:
      1.   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the locality;
      2.   There are practical difficulties and particular hardships in the way
of carrying out the strict letter of the regulations from which a variation is
sought;
      3.   The relief, if granted, is the minimum necessary;
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public safety or creation of a
nuisance; and
      5.   No additional public expense will result.
   E.   Accompanying Information: All variations shall be accompanied by
findings of fact specifying the reason or reasons for making the variation.
(Ord. 60-08, 4-27-60; amd. Ord. 81-01, 1-28-81; Ord. 98-09, 5-27-1998; Ord.
2023-O-12, 7-26-2023)
8-10-2-1: RESERVED:
(Repealed by Ord. 2022-O-17, 9-28-2022)
8-10-2-2: HISTORICAL STRUCTURES:
Variances requested in connection with the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historical Places
or documented by the Illinois Department of Conservation may be granted using
criteria more permissive than the requirements of subsection
8-10-2D and Section
8-8-13 of this Title. (Ord. 81-01, 1-28-82)
8-10-2-3: GREENBRIERS' SUBDIVISION:
The following variations are granted with reference to Lots 1, 2 and 3 of the
proposed subdivision:
   A.   Lot 1: Setback from the east wall of building now on Lot 1 to the east
property line of Lot 1 to be reduced to eleven and one-half feet (11.5') at the
northeast corner of said building and to six and one-fourth feet (6.25') at the
southeast corner of said building.
   B.   Lot 2: Setback from east wall of building to east property line of Lot
2 to be reduced to two feet (2').
   C.   Lot 3: Setback from west wall of building to west line adjoining Lot 2
to be reduced to thirteen feet (13'). Setback from west wall of building to
west line adjoining Lot 1 to be reduced in the following progression going
north:
   22.00 feet
   18.25 feet
   6.25 feet
   24.25 feet
Said figures reflect the distance of the west wall of the building on Lot 3, as
presently improved, from the west lot line of Lot 3 adjoining Lot 1. (Ord. 66-
07, 10-26-66)
CHAPTER 11
ZONING ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-11-1: Building Permits
8-11-2: Certificate of Compliance
8-11-3: Use Permit
8-11-4: Continuance of Existing Uses
8-11-5: Appeals
8-11-6: Amendments
8-11-7: Fees
8-11-8: Enforcement
8-11-9: Violation, Penalty
8-11-1: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Building Erection or Alteration:
      1.   Permit Required: No building or structure shall hereafter be erected
or structurally altered, where the cost of the change exceeds the value given
in the Building Title ($100.00 as of 10-18-65), until a building permit shall
be issued by the Building Commissioner stating that the building or structure,
and use of land comply with the regulations of this Title and all building and
health laws and ordinances 1 .
      2.   Plat to Accompany Application: All applications for building permits
shall be accompanied by a plat in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual
dimensions of the lot or lots to be built upon, the size of the building or
structure to be erected or structurally altered, its location on the lot or
lots and such other information as may be necessary to provide for the
enforcement of these regulations. A careful record of such applications and
plats shall be kept in the office of the Building Commissioner.
      3.   Sewage Disposal Required: No building shall be constructed, and no
permit shall be issued for any building, on any premises not served by a sewer
unless the area of the lot on which such building is to be erected complies
with the ordinances relative to septic tanks as to size and condition of soil 2
.
   B.   Excavation or Fill: No fill shall be placed upon or removed from any
land within the Village until a permit issued. To obtain a permit an
application must be filed with the Building Commissioner and shall be
accompanied by four (4) certified copies of a topographical survey of the lot
or parcel of land in one foot (1') increments and showing thereon, natural
water bodies, drainage ditches and natural and man-made water flow. The
application must also be accompanied by a topographical map showing the grade
in one foot (1') increments after the fill is placed and compacted. This map
shall show that natural and man-made drainage has not been changed or impeded
and that water runoff from the parcel will not be more after filling than
before the fill was placed. No permit shall be issued unless the above
requirements are met. All applications for a building permit, which require
filling or excavation where the excavated material will not be removed from the
lot, must be accompanied by the surveys described herein.
   C.   Bond, Letter of Credit Required: All applications for a building permit
for a principal building or a permit to place fill upon or remove fill from a
lot, shall be accompanied by a cash bond or an approved letter of credit in the
amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) to be deposited with the Village
Treasurer, to indemnify the Village against damage to roads, ditches, culverts,
etc. The Village reserves the right to use all or part of the required deposit
as may be necessary to return the said roads, ditches, culverts, etc. to their
original condition, if damaged by the applicant. Any unused portion shall be
refunded to applicant 3 . (Ord. 81-01, 1-21-81)
 
Notes
1 1. See Titles 4 and 7 of this Code.
  2. See subsection
2 3-5-2B and Section
  7-2-6 of this Code.
3 1. See also subsection
  7-3-8-2C of this Code.
8-11-2: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
No building or structure hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
occupied and used until a certificate of compliance has been issued by the
Building Commissioner. The certificate of compliance shall be issued only after
the Building Commissioner makes a finding that the building or structure has
been erected or structurally altered in conformance with the provisions of this
Title and other health and building laws and in accordance with building
permit.
Certificate of compliance shall be applied for coincident with the application
for a building permit and shall be issued within ten (10) days after the
erection or alteration of such building shall have been satisfactorily
completed. A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the office of
the Building Commissioner and copies shall be furnished, on request, to any
person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building affected.
8-11-3: USE PERMIT:
No change shall be made in the use of building or part thereof now or hereafter
erected or structurally altered, or in the use of land now or hereafter
occupied, without a use permit having first been issued by the Building
Commissioner. No such use permit shall be issued to make such change unless it
is in conformity with the provisions of this Title or amendments thereto
hereafter duly enacted.
8-11-4: CONTINUANCE OF EXISTING USES:
Nothing in this Title shall prevent the continuance of the present occupancy or
lawful use of any existing building, except as may be necessary for the safety
of life and property, and except as provided in subsection
8-3-7F of this Title. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-60)
8-11-5: APPEALS:
   A.   Scope of Appeals: An appeal may be taken from the office charged with
the enforcement of this Title by any person aggrieved or by any officer,
department, board or bureau of the Village. Such appeal shall be taken within
such time as shall be prescribed by the Board of Appeals 1  by general rule, by
filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of
Appeals, a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from
whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record which the action appealed from was taken.
   B.   Stay of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board of Appeals after the notice of appeal has been filed
with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay, would, in
his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case the
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, which
may be granted by the Board of Appeals or by a court of record on application,
on notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
   C.   Hearing: The Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of the appeal and file due notice thereof to the parties and decide the
same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in
person, or by agent, or by attorney. The Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm
wholly or partly or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination as in its opinion ought to be made in the premises and to that
end shall have the power of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
   D.   Petition for Review of Board's Decision: Any person or persons jointly
or severally aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Appeals or any officer,
department, board or bureau of the Village may present to a court of record a
petition duly verified setting forth that such decision is illegal in whole or
in part, specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be
presented to the court within thirty (30) days after the filing of the decision
of the Board of Appeals in the office of the Board. If, upon the presentation
of such petition, the court shall allow a writ of certiorari directed to the
Board of Appeals to review such decision of the Board of Appeals, the allowance
of such writ shall not stay the proceedings upon the decision of the Board
appealed from, but the court may, on application, on notice to the Board, and
on due cause shown, grant a restraining order. The Board of Appeals shall not
be required to return, in response to such writ of the court, the original
papers acted upon by the Board, but it shall be sufficient to return certified
or sworn copies thereof or such portion thereof as may be called for such writ.
The return of the Board required by such writ must concisely set forth such
other facts as may be pertinent and material to show the grounds of the
decision appealed from, and such return must be verified.
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 1, Chapter 10, Article B of this Code.
8-11-6: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority: The regulations imposed and the districts created by this
Title may be amended from time to time by ordinance, but no such amendment
shall be made without a hearing before the Plan Commission 1  which shall
report its findings and recommendations to the Village Board.
   B.   Initiation Of Amendments: The Plan Commission may on its own motion, or
upon a petition signed by one or more owners of property in the Village, or
upon instructions from the Board of Trustees, cause to be prepared a notice
indicating the changes proposed to be made in the regulations or in the
district boundary lines describing the boundaries of the territory to be
affected. Such notice shall state the time and place of the public hearing for
the consideration of such proposed amendment, and shall state where a copy of
the proposed amending ordinance will be accessible for examination by
interested parties. (Ord. 76-02, 6-23-1976)
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: There shall be notice of the time and place of
hearing published at least once, not more than thirty (30) nor less than
fifteen (15) days before the hearing, in a newspaper published in the Village,
or if no newspaper is published therein, then in a newspaper with a general
circulation within the Village. This notice shall contain the particular
location for which the amendment is requested as well as a brief statement of
what the proposed amendment consists.
      1.   In the case of a proposed special use permit, in addition to said
published notice, the applicant for special use permit shall cause a copy of
the published notice to be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, at
least five (5) days before the hearing, to the owners of record of every lot or
parcel which lies within five hundred feet (500') of the boundaries of the lot
or parcel upon which the special use is proposed.
      2.   In the case of a proposed amendment to the zoning district
designation of one or more parcels, the applicant for amendment shall cause a
copy of the published notice to be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, at least five (5) days before the hearing, to the owners of record
of every lot or parcel which lies within the area proposed to be rezoned or
within five hundred feet (500') of the boundaries of the lot(s) or parcel(s)
upon which the amendment is proposed.
      3.   Before a hearing commences, the applicant shall submit proof to the
Plan Commission of mailing of notices herein required. (Ord. 95-09, 2-22-1995)
      4.   For the purposes of this Section, notices required to be mailed to
owners of record shall be mailed to the person in whose name the last taxes
were billed upon the property to be notified as that name and address appears
upon the records of the County Tax Collector. (Ord. 96-06, 3-27-1996)
   D.   Objections: If a written protest against any proposed amendment of the
regulations or districts, signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty
percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of
twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley
therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage directly
opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, is filed with the Village Clerk,
the amendment shall not be passed except by a favorable vote of two-thirds (2/
3) of all the Village Trustees. (Ord. 76-02, 6-23-1976)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 1, Chapter 10, Article A of this Code.
8-11-7: FEES:
   A.   Review To Determine Compliance With Zoning Regulations: Applicant shall
pay for all costs of review by the Municipality incurred in connection with the
determination of compliance by the applicant with the requirements of this
Title. An initial estimate of the costs to be incurred by the Municipality
shall be made at the time a petition or application is filed and such sum shall
be deposited by the applicant with the Village Treasurer before any further
work is done by the Village. Said initial estimate shall be based upon the
following schedule:
 
For 5 acres or less, minimum deposit         $ 250.00
For 6 to 25 acres, minimum deposit           500.00
For each 25 acres or increment thereof above  
the first 25 acres, minimum deposit          250.00
 
Any unused funds shall be refunded to applicant. In the event the sums
deposited are insufficient to cover the costs of the Village, applicant shall
pay the additional costs immediately upon presentation of the bill therefor.
(Ord. 76-02, 6-23-1976)
   B.   Petitions: Petition fees under this title shall be as follows:
1. Text amendment                         $ 200.00
2. Variation:
 From 1 to and including 5 acres         150.00
 For each additional acre in same parcel 25.00
3. Map amendment:
 From 1 to and including 5 acres         150.00
 For each additional acre in same parcel 25.00
4. Appeal to zoning board of appeals      100.00
5. Special use:
 For 20 acres or less                    1,500.00
 For each additional acre                50.00
(Ord. 73-09, 9-10-1973)
6. Certificate of compliance              75.00
(Ord. 66-04, 6-27-1966)
 
Publication costs over twenty dollars ($20.00) will be paid by petitioner in
addition to fee.
The aforesaid fees shall be paid at the time of the filing of the petition with
the clerk of the village and prior to hearing thereon. (Ord. 73-09, 9-10-1973)
8-11-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Authority Of Village: In case any building or structure is constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained or any building, any
structure or any land is used in violation of this title or of any ordinance or
regulation made under authority conferred by state law, as amended, the
village, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or
proceeding:
      1.   To prevent the unlawful construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, conversion, maintenance, or use;
      2.   To prevent the occupancy of the building, structure or land;
      3.   To prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about the
premises; or
      4.   To restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   B.   Revocation Of Special Use Permit Or Variation: In any case where a
special use permit or variation has been revoked by the enforcing officer or by
action of the corporate authority the following procedures shall apply:
      1.   Appeals: Any person receiving an order to revoke a permit or
ordinance issued pursuant to action governed under the zoning ordinance adopted
under this chapter, may take an appeal to the village president. Such appeal
shall be taken within fifteen (15) days after the revocation of said permit or
ordinance, by filing written notice of appeal with the village administrator,
on forms provided by the village clerk or, if no form is provided, by a writing
from the appellant stating that the revocation is being appealed. The notice of
appeal shall contain the name, mailing address and contact information of the
appellant. The village administrator, or her designee shall then transmit to
the village president all of the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed was taken.
      2.   Hearing Officer: The village president shall serve, or appoint a
person in his stead, as the hearing officer to adjudicate all such appeal
hearings.
      3.   Notice Of Hearing: Reasonable notice of the date, time and place of
such hearing shall be mailed to the appellant at the hearing at the address
stated on the notice of appeal. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail, or
by personal delivery to the address of the applicant contained on the notice of
appeal and shall contain:
         a.   The time, place, and nature of the hearing.
         b.   A statement of the legal authority and jurisdiction under which
the hearing is to be held.
         c.   A reference to the particular sections of the ordinances or
statute(s) involved.
         d.   A statement informing the applicant of his or her ability to
respond by presenting evidence and argument.
      4.   Conduct Of Hearings:
         a.   A hearing held under this chapter shall be held in accordance
with the following rules:
            (1)   A hearing shall be held at a reasonable time, date and place.
            (2)   No cause shall be heard earlier than three (3) days after
receipt by an applicant of the notice required under this chapter.
            (3)   An applicant may present evidence and argument.
            (4)   The hearing officer may limit, but not prohibit, the
presentation of relevant evidence and agreement. Evidence not subject to the
strict rules of evidence and privilege as applied in civil cases in the circuit
courts of this state and may be admitted if it is of a type commonly relied
upon by reasonably prudent men in the conduct of their affairs.
            (5)   The hearing officer may take administrative notice of any
prior disciplinary action against an applicant. The parties shall be notified
either before or during the hearing of disciplinary action noticed, and shall
be afforded an opportunity to contest the material so noticed.
         b.   Where an appellant was provided the requisite notice under this
chapter and fails to appear at a hearing, the hearing officer may act ex parte.
Additionally, the hearing officer may also schedule an informal hearing with
the appellant where the permit or ordinance determination will not be
affirmatively acted upon at such informal hearing.
   C.   Decisions Of The Hearing Officer: All decisions by the hearing officer
shall be the final administrative decision of the village. Any decision, order
or determination rendered by the hearing officer which affects the rights,
duties or privileges of an applicant, shall be in writing and shall notify the
applicant personally or by certified mail of the decision. Any such decision,
order or determination may include assessment of all costs, fees and expenses
as determined by the hearing officer.
   D.   Waiver: Compliance with any or all of the provisions of this chapter
concerning procedure may be waived by written stipulation of all parties.
   E.   Requests For Continuance Of Hearing:
      1.   A request for a continuance of any hearing in any matter before the
hearing officer will not be allowed unless for good and valid cause shown in
writing and unless delivered to the hearing officer at least three (3) days
prior to the date set for hearing.
      2.   The hearing officer may, in his or her discretion, grant a
continuance if extenuating or unusual circumstances are presented in support of
the request for continuance.
      3.   Any continuances requested by the appellant shall be contingent upon
payment by the appellant of all applicable costs, fees, and expenses as
reasonably determined by the hearing officer.
      4.   As a condition to the granting of the continuance, the hearing
officer may require the cessation of any land use in violation of the special
use permit at issue.
   F.   Revocation Of Permit Or Ordinance: A decision of the hearing officer to
uphold the revocation of a permit or ordinance shall result in the immediate
termination of such permit or ordinance and the entitlements granted
thereunder.
   G.   Remanding Permit Or Ordinance: A decision of the hearing officer to
overturn an order revoking a permit or ordinance shall be remanded to the
village board of trustees for consideration of an amendment to the permit or
ordinance to reflect the decision of the hearing officer at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the village board of trustees and after proper due notice
under the law.
   H.   Filing A Notice Of Appeal: The filing of a notice of appeal does not
stop, suspend or toll the violation or violations of the special use permit or
ordinance at issue and the village may continue to pursue any and all legal and
equitable remedies available to the village under the circumstances of the
violation.
   I.   Enforcing Officer: The building commissioner or the village
administrator shall be the enforcing officer of this title and shall have the
power and shall exercise the function prescribed by the state law and by the
terms of all ordinances now in force or hereafter passed. (Ord. 2015-O-06, 3-4-
2015)
8-11-9: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate, disobey, omit, neglect or
refuse to comply with or to resist the enforcement of any of the provisions of
this title or to use or occupy any building, structure or premises in violation
of said provisions and, upon conviction, said person shall be fined not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day
during which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 60-08, 4-27-1960)
CHAPTER 12
ILLUMINATION SYSTEMS
SECTION:
8-12-1: Intent
8-12-2: Definitions
8-12-3: Classes Of Lighting Areas
8-12-4: Regulations
8-12-5: Permit Requirements
8-12-6: Information Required
8-12-7: Design Review
8-12-8: Existing Illumination Systems
8-12-9: Variations
8-12-10: Penalty
8-12-1: INTENT:
The intent of this Chapter is to regulate, establish and control the amount of
artificial light visible to the public.
   A.   Excessive amounts of manmade light, intruding upon adjacent properties,
constitutes light pollution. It is this type of lighting that is aesthetically
destructive and tends to destroy the natural rural charm the Village has
strived to maintain. As an element in our residential districts, this
encroachment is inconsistent with the rural night and diminishes the economic
value of the properties which are subjected to light pollution. Our residents
purchased property here to enjoy the rural charm of the Village, not be
subjected to needless and aesthetically harmful illumination. As part of our
Office, Industrial and Community Business Districts, adequate amounts of
illumination must be provided in order to promote safety and security. These
elements need to provide protection for both personal safekeeping and property
preservation, with minimal impact on adjacent residential properties or glare
on nearby highways.
   B.   The purpose of this Chapter is to eliminate or reduce as much light
pollution as possible. Controlled forms of illumination systems, which promote
safety and are consistent with the planning efforts of the Village, are set
forth in this Chapter and are permitted where indicated. (Ord. 96-15, 7-31-
1996)
8-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Title, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
terms shall be construed as herein defined:
COMMERCIAL BUILDING LIGHTING: Lighting which is attached to any nonresidential
structure, including lighting near doors, lighting which illuminates the
grounds and lighting which is directed to illuminate the facade of the
building.
DRIVEWAY LIGHTING: Lighting which is designed to identify the location of a
driveway, when reasonably necessary due to significant traffic flow, to light
the edge of the driveway to prevent lawn damage, to promote traffic safety at
the intersection of the driveway with the adjacent road, and/or to provide
illumination in areas in which an automobile drives or passengers would enter
or exit a vehicle.
EXTERIOR LIGHTING OF RESIDENCE: Lighting which is designed to provide
illumination for safe ingress or egress to the residence, including the garage,
but shall not include illumination of the exterior of the building.
HOLIDAY LIGHTING: Temporary seasonal lighting, which is traditionally displayed
during holiday periods, is decorative and has low level illumination, so that
the grounds are not illuminated.
INTERSECTION OR STREET LIGHTING: Lighting which is elevated above ground and is
reasonably designed to illuminate a street intersection or road in such a
fashion as to promote vehicular and pedestrian safety.
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING: Lighting which is located on the ground and is primarily
designed to illuminate or silhouette vegetation, a lawn or garden. This type of
lighting may incidentally illuminate a portion of a building.
PARKING LOT LIGHTING: Lighting of an office, industrial, community business or
special use area, which is devoted to temporary storage of motor vehicles. This
type of lighting is designed to provide illumination for safety and security.
PRIVATE SIGN ILLUMINATION: Lighting of any sign, which is otherwise permitted,
which is not installed or maintained by any governmental entity, such as, but
not limited to, subdivision identification signs.
RESIDENTIAL YARD OR GROUNDS LIGHTING: Lighting which is designed to promote
safe pedestrian travel along walkways, swimming pools, patios or decks.
ROAD SIGN LIGHTING: Lighting of any sign, which is installed or maintained by
any governmental entity, or is otherwise directory in nature and lighting is
reasonably necessary to augment illumination by automobile headlights.
SECURITY LIGHTING: Lighting which is controlled by an alarm system and is only
illuminated when the alarm is sounded or otherwise engaged for its intended
emergency purpose.
SPECIAL USE LIGHTING: Lighting which is specifically designed to be sensitive
to its impact on neighboring lands and to the requirements for the particular
use of the particular district. These public and private categories are, but
not limited to, religious, educational, not-for-profit, agricultural,
historical, recreational (such as stages and tennis courts) and health/medical
uses and facilities. (Ord. 96-15, 7-31-1996)
8-12-3: CLASSES OF LIGHTING AREAS:
Class 1: All residential areas of the Village, including SR-5, SR-2, SR-1.5,
SR-1, SR-1A, all special use areas, including, but not limited to, cluster
subdivision and open space subdivision developments and all specific variation
subdivisions.
Class 2: All nonresidentially zoned areas. This classification also includes
all property utilized for agricultural, educational, religious and all special
use areas, including, but not limited to, not-for-profit office and health/
medical uses and facilities. This classification does not include public or
private roads, but does include driveways to areas that are otherwise within
this classification.
Class 3: All public and private roads, excluding driveways. (Ord. 96-15, 7-31-
1996)
8-12-4: REGULATIONS:
The regulations and standards set forth herein shall regulate and govern the
use of, modification of, construction of, installation of, or the erection of
any illumination system for the purpose of lighting external areas, including,
but not limited to, signs, parking areas, buildings, landscaping, walkways,
porches, driveways and public or private roads.
Refer to the end of this Chapter for luminaries and poles approved for
installation within the Village.
Each illumination system must be permitted or have received approval in each of
the seven (7) groups, inclusive, before a permit can be issued.
Legend for each Group/Class is indicated by a P symbol for a Permitted use, by
an NP symbol for a Not Permitted use and by a VB symbol for a use subject to
review and approval of the Village Board.
GROUP 1: USAGES PERMITTED Class 1 Class 2 Class 3
                                       
GROUP 1: USAGES PERMITTED               Class 1  Class 2  Class 3
                                                       
        Commercial building lighting   --       BC       --
        Commercial parking lot         --       BC       --
        Driveway lighting              P        BC       --
        Exterior residential lighting  P        --       --
        Holiday lighting               P        P        --
        Intersection or street         VB       VB       VB
         lighting
        Landscape lighting             BC       BC       --
        Private sign illumination      BC       BC       --
        Residential yard/grounds       BC       --       --
         lighting
        Road sign lighting             BC       BC       --
        Security lighting              BC       BC       --
        Special use lighting           VB       VB       VB
        Subdivision entrance lighting  VB       VB       VB
                                                       
GROUP 2: LIGHT SOURCES PERMITTED        Class 1  Class 2  Class 3
                                                       
        Incandescent (white or clear)  P        P        P
        Incandescent (malibu type)     P        NP       --
        Incandescent (multi-colored    P        P        --
         holiday or temporary use)
        Halogen                        VB       VB       VB
        Mercury vapor                  NP       P        P
        Metal halide                   P        P        P
        Sodium vapor                   VB       VB       VB
        Natural gas                    P        P        P
        Other                          VB       VB       VB
                                                       
GROUP 3: FIXTURE STYLE*                 Class 1  Class 2  Class 3
                                                       
        Commercial parking lot         --       VB       VB
        Driveway lighting              VB       VB       --
        Intersection or street         VB       VB       VB
         lighting
        Road sign lighting             --       VB       VB
        Special use lighting           VB       VB       VB
        Subdivision lighting           VB       VB       VB
                                                       
        *For luminary and pole approved for installation within the Village,
        see illustration at end of Chapter.
          
GROUP 4: FIXTURE HEIGHT                 Class 1 Class 2 Class 3
                                                       
        Fixture 15 feet or less        P        P        P
         Fixture higher than 15 feet
        with                           NP       VB       VB
        maximum height of 30 feet                       
          
GROUP 5: FIXTURE SPACING                Class 1 Class 2 Class 3
                                                       
        Street intersections           P        P        P
                                                       
GROUP 6: BRIGHTNESS                     Class 1  Class 2  Class 3
                                                       
        Illumination over 3 foot-      NP       NP       VB
         candles
        Illumination at 3 foot-candles P        P        P
        and under                                       
          
GROUP 7: ILLUMINATION OF                Class 1  Class 2  Class 3
                                                       
         External lights which glare
        into traffic and/or adjacent   NP       NP       --
         neighboring properties.
         Luminaries shall be baffled
         and/or designed so that the
        cut-off line of light is at                     
        least                                           
         10 feet within the property
         line.*
          
         Reflected light from a
         building
         sign, which is greater than 2
        foot-candles, when measured at NP       NP       --
        the structure. Also applies to                  
         structures inadvertently
         lighted.
          
         Direct light greater than 2
         foot-
        candles from any source,       NP       NP       --
        reflected off a white surface,                  
         which is 12 feet from source.
          
         *Illumination shall be measured in foot-candles at six inches (6")
         above ground level in a horizontal position at the point ten feet
         (10') inside property line. A direct reading portable light meter with
         color and cosine corrected sensor with multiple scales shall be used.
        The meter shall have been tested and calibrated to an accuracy of plus
         or minus five percent (±5%) within one year of its use. Measurements
         shall be made after dark. The difference between lights on
         measurements and lights off measurements shall be used to determine
         the illumination level and to eliminate the effects of ambient light.
 
(Ord. 96-15, 7-31-1996)
8-12-5: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to construct, install, modify, erect or utilize any
illumination system for the purpose of lighting external areas without securing
a permit in Class 1 and Class 2 areas. No permit shall be required for
illumination systems in Class 3 areas.
The permit fee for an illumination system permit shall be seventy five dollars
($75.00). In addition, the applicant shall be responsible for any and all
professional costs incurred by the Village Building Commissioner, in connection
with the review of the application for the permit, including engineering fees
and attorney fees.
All applications for illumination system permits shall be reviewed by and
receive the approval of the Building Commissioner prior to the issuance of a
permit. (Ord. 96-15, 7-31-1996)
8-12-6: INFORMATION REQUIRED:
All permit applications shall be accompanied by three (3) sets of the following
documents: a drawing of the site, with the location of all proposed fixtures
depicted thereon. Concrete foundation detail indicating anchor bolts, conduits,
ground rod and depth of foundation in relation to finish grade as required for
specific soil conditions. Trench and compacted backfill material with size and
type of direct burial cable. No open cutting of paved roadway is allowed. Light
poles shall not be located closer than fifteen feet (15') to any fire hydrant,
manhole, catch basin or inlet. Also required shall be statements of use
intended, the power source, the type of light source, a representation of the
actual fixture (original catalog cut and/or drawing), fixture height, material
and finishes, photo cell location, source brightness in foot-candles and
sufficient information to determine the amount of illumination which would
shine on adjacent property. In addition, all other information and data
reasonably necessary to evaluate the permit request, shall be provided to the
Village Board as it requests. (Ord. 96-15, 7-31-1996)
8-12-7: DESIGN REVIEW:
No permit shall be issued for any illumination system unless it has first been
approved as complying with said design criteria utilizing the standards set
forth in this Chapter, by the Building Commissioner of the Village. The
submittal will be reviewed for location, height, style and type of fixture to
ensure that the illumination system, as installed, will fully comply with all
the requirements of this Chapter and that it will be harmonious with existing
uses in the vicinity of the site of the proposed illumination system. The
submittal shall not be approved until it has satisfied all the criteria and
that the illumination system will not generate light pollution.
   A.   Procedure: Prior to obtaining a permit, the documents as outlined in
Section
8-12-6 of this Chapter shall be submitted to the Building Department, along
with the preliminary plan review fee.
   B.   Building Department Review: The Building Commissioner shall review the
submitted preliminary design to determine if it is complete and meets the basic
standards of the Village. (Ord. 96-15, 7-31-1996)
8-12-8: EXISTING ILLUMINATION SYSTEMS:
All existing illumination systems which do not conform to the requirements of
this Chapter shall be brought into conformity with all of the criteria and
standards set forth in this Chapter, no later than two (2) years subsequent to
adoption of this Chapter. (Ord. 96-15, 7-31-1996)
8-12-9: VARIATIONS:
The Village Zoning Board of Appeals, upon good cause shown, recommends to the
Village Board a variation from strict compliance with the standards set forth
in this Chapter if, in the determination of the Village Zoning Board of
Appeals, the variation is necessary to avoid an undue hardship upon the
applicant. In addition, that the Village Zoning Board of Appeals determines
that the illumination system with the variance requested shall not have any
adverse effect upon adjacent properties and that the variation requested shall
not result in light pollution subject to public view. The Village Board shall
review and act upon the recommendation as provided in subsection
8-10-2D of this Title. (Ord. 96-15, 7-31-1996)
8-12-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other legal entity
who violates this Chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined a sum not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or upon
which the violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 96-15, 7-31-1996)
This luminary and pole will be located at all street intersections only.
Deviations to this requirement must be approved by the Village Plan Commission.
The approved light fixture assembly is by Sternberg, the Main Street/Oxford
Model MS805-A/6212-TFP.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2103.gif]
 
(Ord. 96-15, 7-31-1996)
TITLE 9
LAND SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Purpose
9-1-3: Interpretation
9-1-4: Jurisdiction
9-1-5: Definitions
9-1-6: Dedications, Easements, Reservations
9-1-6-1: Dedications
9-1-6-2: Easements
9-1-6-3: Reservations
9-1-6-4: Approval, Right Of Refusal
9-1-7: Resubdivision And Replatting Standards
9-1-8: Local Land Resource Management Planning Act
9-1-9: Subdivision Fees
9-1-9-1: School Impact Fees
9-1-9-2: Local Land Resources Management Fee
9-1-10: Open Space Conveyance
9-1-10-1: Management Of Ponds And Natural Areas
9-1-11: Impact Fees For Roads And Schools
9-1-11-1: General
9-1-11-2: Parks, Preserves And Other Public Areas
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited, or referred to as the SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
OF GREEN OAKS, ILLINOIS. (Ord. 90-O-03, 7-25-1990)
9-1-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this title:
   A.   To promote the public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience,
prosperity and general welfare;
   B.   To establish minimum design standards intended to encourage the
development of subdivisions that are compatible with the unique character,
spaciousness, and ambience of existing development and the preservation of
existing natural features within the community;
   C.   To secure the most appropriate use of land, and to facilitate the
adequate and economical provision of public improvements;
   D.   To provide for future growth and development in accordance with the
comprehensive plan of the village;
   E.   To afford adequate facilities for the safe, convenient and efficient
means for the traffic circulation of its population;
   F.   To safeguard the public against flood damage;
   G.   To encourage the wise use, management and preservation of natural
resources throughout the village in order to preserve the integrity, stability
and beauty of the community and value of the land;
   H.   To prescribe reasonable rules and regulations governing the subdivision
and platting of land; the preparation of plats; the location, width and course
of streets and highways; the installation of utilities, street pavements and
other essential improvements, and the necessary public grounds for schools,
parks, playgrounds, trails, wetlands, and open spaces;
   I.   To establish procedures for the submission, approval and recording of
plats. (Ord. 90-O-03, 7-25-1990)
9-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, said
provisions shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion and
effectuation of the purposes set forth herein.
   B.   Nothing herein shall repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any way interfere
with any provision of law, or any rules or regulations other than subdivision
regulations adopted or issued pursuant to law relating to the subdivision or
development of land. Where this title imposes greater restrictions or
requirements than are imposed or required by other provisions of law, rules,
regulations, covenants or agreements, the provisions of this title shall
control, but nothing herein shall interfere with, abrogate, or annul any
easements, covenants, deed restrictions or agreements between parties which
impose restrictions greater than those imposed by this title. (Ord. 90-O-03, 7-
25-1990)
9-1-4: JURISDICTION:
   (A)   These regulations shall apply to all subdivisions and developments
made within the corporate limits of Green Oaks and within unincorporated areas
lying up to one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond, in accordance with the
authority vested in the Village under the provisions of the Illinois Compiled
Statutes, as amended 1 , from time to time. Said subdivisions and developments
shall, in all respects, be in full compliance with the applicable requirements
hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   The provisions of this Title shall also apply to all planned
developments and condominium divisions, whether residential, commercial or
otherwise in nature, and to any and all other developments, whether a
subdivision is required or not under the laws, statutes, ordinances or
regulations of the governmental body or agency having jurisdiction or control,
and regardless of whether the same is labeled a subdivision or not; it being
the intent of this Title to apply to all types of development, both within the
Village and within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits of the
Village. (Ord. 92-01, 1-29-92)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1.
9-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Title, the following words, terms, phrases and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
CONSERVANCY DISTRICT: An area of the subdivision which shall be devoted to and
maintained for the conservation of existing natural vegetation, open space,
scenic preservation or other similar public interest purposes. Such districts
may be either in the form of easements upon portions of the various lots in the
subdivision, or may be dedicated or conveyed to the Village or such other
entity as may be determined by the Village for the purpose of assuring that the
area shall be perpetually conserved and maintained in the manner and for the
public interest purposes which shall be specifically set forth when the
district is created.
DEVELOPMENT: Any construction or an installation of site improvements,
including but not limited to improvements for condominium ownership or other
forms of right of use of improvements by more than one owner.
DRIVEWAY: Driveway shall mean any road surface on private property that
provides vehicular access to only one building or the off-street parking or
loading facilities serving only that building. Driveways which provide access
to more than one building, parking area or loading area are considered to be
private streets.
ENGINEER: A professional engineer registered as such and licensed to practice
in the State of Illinois.
HEALTH OFFICER: The Director of the Lake County Health Department.
IMPACT FEE AGREEMENT: An agreement to be entered into between the Village and
the developer under which various impact fees or other considerations are
agreed upon and payment arranged. Where appropriate, long-term payment
obligations shall be in such form that they can be recorded as liens upon the
subdivision or covenants running with the land.
MAJOR THOROUGHFARE PLAN: The officially adopted major thoroughfare plan of the
Village as the same may be adopted or amended, from time to time.
OFFICIAL MAP: The part of the Official Plan upon which is accurately designated
all existing and proposed public rights of way and sites for other public uses.
OFFICIAL PLAN: The comprehensive plan of public improvements or part thereof
looking to the present and future developments of the Village or any part
thereof with all changes and amendments officially adopted from time to time by
the Village Board.
OWNER: The individual, association, syndicate, copartnership, corporation,
trust or any other legal entity having a proprietary interest in the land
sought to be subdivided.
PEDESTRIAN WAY: A right of way, however designated, across or within a block
for use by pedestrian traffic, and shall include, but not be limited to,
sidewalks and crosswalks.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, corporation, trust or any
other legal entity.
PLAT OFFICER: The chairman of the Planning Commission 1  of the Village of
Green Oaks.
STREET: The entire width between property lines of every way or place of
whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public as a
matter of right for the purpose of travel and transportation.
Collector Street: A street which carries traffic from minor streets to a
thoroughfare, including the principal entrance streets of residential
subdivisions, and streets for circulation within such subdivisions.
Cul-De-Sac: A short minor street ending in a turn-around designed and intended
as a permanent terminus.
Expressway: A thoroughfare to which access is limited or controlled, designed
to move vehicular traffic between communities or other large areas. Included in
this definition are tollway, freeway and turnpike.
Half Street: That portion of the street on either side of a tract boundary when
a proposed street has as its center line, or within its right of way, the
boundaries of one or more tracts.
Marginal Access Street or Frontage Street: A minor street which is
approximately parallel to and adjacent to a thoroughfare, and which provides
access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
Minor Street: A street used primarily for access to abutting properties.
Private Street or Private Road: Private street or private road shall mean a
minor street or common driveway, located upon an easement for that purpose,
within a nonresidential development or subdivision, which provides access to
more than one abutting building, parking area, loading area or property within
the subdivision or development.
Street Width: The shortest distance between the lines delineating the right of
way of a street.
Thoroughfare: A street with a considerable degree of continuity and serving as
a traffic artery for intercommunication between areas of concentrated use,
including but not limited to Federal, State, County and major township
highways.
SUBDIVIDER: Any owner or other person proceeding under this Title to subdivide
or develop land.
SUBDIVISION: A. Any division or redivision of any subdivision tract, parcel or
lot of land into two (2) or more parts.
   B.   Includes resubdivision when appropriate to the context.
   C.   Subdivisions exempted from the terms of this Title are:
      1. A division of land into lots or parcels of five (5) acres or more and
not involving any new streets or easements of access;
      2. Conveyances of land for use as rights of way for highway, railroad, or
other public utilities not involving any new streets or easements of access; or
      3. Such other subdivision as may be specifically exempted herefrom by
Illinois Compiled Statutes now in effect or as hereafter amended or passed.
Major Subdivision: Any subdivision not classified as a minor subdivision or not
specifically exempted under the terms of this Title.
Minor Subdivision: Any subdivision containing five (5) lots or less and which:
   A.   Fronts on an existing improved public minor street;
   B.   Does not involve any new street or road or the extension of Municipal
facilities;
   C.   Does not adversely affect the development of the remainder of the
parcel or adjoining property; and
   D.   Does not conflict with any provision or portion of the Official Map or
other applicable regulations or plans.
SUPERINTENDENT OF HIGHWAYS: The Superintendent of Highways of the County of
Lake.
SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered as such in the State of Illinois.
ZONING OFFICER: The Building Commissioner 2  of the Village of Green Oaks.
ZONING TITLE: The Zoning Title of the Village of Green Oaks and all maps
pertaining thereto as the same may be amended from time to time 3 . (Ord. 90-
03, 7-25-90; amd. Ord. 92-01, 1-29-92)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 1, Chapter 10, Article A of this Code.
2 1. See also Section
  1-8-5 of this Code.
3 2. See Title 8 of this Code.
9-1-6: DEDICATIONS, EASEMENTS, RESERVATIONS:
9-1-6-1: DEDICATIONS:
Areas required to be dedicated are as follows:
   A.   New Streets: In all residential developments, all new streets created
by subdivision and shown on plats submitted for approval and recording shall be
dedicated outright to the public. No private streets or roads shall be
permitted within residential developments. Private streets may be permitted
under the conditions hereinafter set forth, by action of the Village Board,
only within nonresidential developments and subdivisions when they only serve
abutting properties, buildings, parking areas and loading areas within the
development or subdivision. Such private streets shall connect with public
streets, and shall not serve properties, or interconnect with other private
streets, outside the development or subdivision. (Ord. 92-01, 1-29-92)
   B.   Additional Street Widths: Additional street widths shall be dedicated
along existing thoroughfares where a width greater than that existing is called
for by the major thoroughfare plan, or this Title.
   C.   Pedestrian Ways: Pedestrian ways, where required, shall be dedicated.
(Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-1-6-2: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Easements Shown: Areas to be shown as easements are as follows:
      1.   Public Utilities: Public utilities, storm water facilities, and
installations shall be located on suitable easements as specified in this
Title.
      2.   Planting Strips: Planting strips or other buffers, located between
reverse frontage lots and a thoroughfare, or between incompatible uses, or
wherever required. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
      3.   Private Roads: As existing upon annexation, or within nonresidential
subdivisions or developments when permitted by Village Board action as provided
in subsection
9-3-2J of this Title. (Ord. 92-01, 1-29-92)
      4.   Scenic Corridor Easement: The scenic corridor easement shall be
depicted on the face of the plat of subdivision.
      5.   Conservancy District Area: The conservancy district area shall
similarly be depicted on the face of the plat of subdivision.
   B.   Identification of Easements: Easements shall be clearly identified on
all plats; e.g., "Drainage Easement", "Utility Easement", etc.
   C.   Description of Purpose: Whenever an easement for planting strip, scenic
corridor or conservancy district is set forth, the plat shall contain or have
attached thereto, a complete description of the purpose of the easement; the
manner in which it is to be maintained and the responsibilities of the owner in
reference thereto. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-1-6-3: RESERVATIONS:
   A.   Areas to be Reserved: Whenever the area being subdivided embraces all
or part of any lands designated on the Official Plan for a school, forest
preserve, or other community facility or any other public use, all land so
designated shall be shown on the preliminary plat as being dedicated or
reserved for that proposed use, and it shall be reserved by the subdivider for
a period of one year from the date of approval of the preliminary plat, during
which time it shall be made available to the public agency concerned at the
undeveloped acreage price, as determined by an appraiser acceptable to both
parties.
   B.   Reservations and Preliminary Plats:
      1.   Areas reserved shall be clearly identified on the preliminary plat
as reserved in accordance with this Title.
      2.   The preliminary plat shall also contain the proposals of the
subdivider as they might otherwise be platted, for the areas under reservation,
to be applied in the event the land is not acquired by the public within the
period of reservation. Upon completion of the one year period of reservation,
the preliminary plat shall remain a valid preliminary plat for the formerly
reserved areas for a period of one year.
   C.   Reservations and Final Plats:
      1.   Where practicable, final plats shall not include areas reserved.
Said final plats should affect only that portion of the subdivider's land which
is unrestricted by the reservations.
      2.   Where final plats must include areas reserved, such areas shall be
clearly identified as reserved in accordance with this Title and shall not
contain any proposals of the developer.
      3.   Final plats may be submitted for reserved land unacquired by the
public at the close of the one year period. Such plats will be considered
additional units of the subdivisions for which initial final plats were
recorded.
   D.   Reversion: If the appropriate public agency having jurisdiction has
not, within one year after receiving notice in writing that the premises are
available at the price and terms set forth in subsection A above, acquired the
site reserved for a public use, the subdivider shall regain full and
unencumbered title to the same, and may use it in any way and for any purpose
permitted by the pertinent regulations then in effect. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-1-6-4: APPROVAL, RIGHT OF REFUSAL:
The number, size and location of dedications, reservations and easements shall
be subject to approval and the Planning Commission shall ascertain that the
proposed sites are suitable for the proposed uses. The corporate authorities
retain the right to refuse any and all dedications. (Ord. 90-19, 11-28-90)
9-1-7: RESUBDIVISION AND REPLATTING STANDARDS:
The Planning Commission shall, in the performance of its plat approving
function, encourage and facilitate the replatting of prematurely and inexpertly
subdivided areas which are now in sharp contrast to current standards of
acceptability. Rehabilitation of these areas shall be implemented through
proper design considerations when adjacent unsubdivided land is proposed for
development.
   A.   Whenever application is made for the resubdivision of existing lots or
parcels of record which qualifies as a "minor subdivision" as defined in
Section
9-1-5 of this Title, and which is for the purpose of adjusting the size or
configuration of a nonresidential lot or parcel to create a single lot from
part or all of one or more lots to permit a specific principal building to be
erected or structurally altered thereon in conformance with the requirements of
Section
8-7-1 of this Code, the following provisions shall apply:
      1.   The filing fee for such resubdivision shall be reduced to one
hundred dollars ($100.00). All other deposits and fees required by this Code
shall be paid, unless previously paid at the time of original subdivision.
      2.   The Plan Commission shall only require a hearing upon the proposed
final plat, although the applicant may submit a sketch or preliminary plat for
informal review and approval prior to the hearing on the final plat.
      3.   The Village Engineer and Village Attorney shall approve the final
plat before it is presented for hearing for the limited purpose of determining
that no changes to existing roadway, utility, drainage or other facilities will
be required to conform to applicable subdivision standards, or if changes are
required, they have been properly designed and performance thereof has been
assured.
      4.   Such resubdivision shall not create any remainder lots or parcels
which fail to conform to the applicable zoning and subdivision standards. (Ord.
95-07, 2-22-95)
9-1-8: LOCAL LAND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PLANNING ACT:
   A.   Adoption: The corporate authorities of the Village hereby adopt the
provisions and objectives of the Local Land Resource Management Planning Act 1
(the "Act").
   B.   Development of Plan: The Plan Commission of the Village is hereby
authorized and instructed to initiate and develop a proposed "Local Land
Resources Management Plan" as defined in section 3 of the Act, (hereinafter the
"Plan") and within one hundred eighty (180) days after the adoption of
Ordinance 90-08, to report to the Village Board of Trustees and to recommend a
proposed Plan for adoption by the Village.
   C.   Public Hearings: The Plan Commission shall have the authority to call
public hearings on the proposed Plan with due notice, as in its discretion may
be useful to determine the needs of the Village in developing the Plan. In the
event that any changes or amendments to the Zoning Ordinance 2  of the Village
are proposed in conjunction with the Plan, the Plan Commission shall hold such
public hearings in conjunction therewith as may be required by ordinance and by
statute.
   D.   Vote: The Village Board after duly considering the proposed Plan, may
adopt the Plan by the affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the corporate
authorities.
   E.   Funding: The Village Board shall, by ordinance or by resolution,
provide for the necessary funding of the development and implementation of the
Plan; for funding of studies and reports relating to the development of the
Plan; for funding acquisition, maintenance, preservation and conservation of
land resources and open spaces and forest lands; for funding to assure water
quality and quantity, safe and efficient public transit and private auto usage,
public facilities and services, and energy conservation; and such other
programs and objectives as are set forth in section 4 of the Act. (Ord. 90-08,
7-25-90)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 50 ILCS 805/1 et seq.
2 1. See Title 8 of this Code.
9-1-9: SUBDIVISION FEES:
The Village shall collect (in addition to the filing fees and deposits provided
for in Section
9-1-9-2 below), the following fees. (Ord. 90-09, 7-25-90)
9-1-9-1: SCHOOL IMPACT FEES 1 :
The Village shall collect school impact fees upon all lots in the subdivision
in the amounts, manner and times as herein set forth. (Ord. 90-09, 7-25-90)
 
Notes
1 2. See also Section
  9-2-4 of this Title.
9-1-9-2: LOCAL LAND RESOURCES MANAGEMENT FEE:
The village shall collect local land resources management fees upon all lots in
the subdivision in the amounts, manner and times as herein set forth.
   A.   There shall be paid to the village, a cash contribution for the purpose
of defraying the cost of developing and implementing a local land resources
management plan in the sum of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for
each lot in the subdivision.
   B.   The cash contribution may be waived or adjusted by agreement of the
subdivider and the village in consideration of other benefits, contributions or
adjustments which may be negotiated with any developer or subdivider.
   C.   The cash contributions shall be paid to the village at the time when a
building permit is ready to be issued upon each lot in the subdivision in the
manner that the village may prescribe.
   D.   The subdivider shall enter into a recordable covenant running with the
land at the time of approval of the final plat where in the obligation to make
the cash contribution or such other agreement as may be entered into in lieu
thereof, shall be duly acknowledged and made an obligation of the owner of the
lots in the subdivision and his successors in title. (Ord. 90-O-09, 7-25-1990)
9-1-10: OPEN SPACE CONVEYANCE:
Whenever any area in a proposed subdivision is designated to be devoted to open
space use, nature conservancy, trailways, storm detention or other use which is
public, or in the interest of the public, the area shall be titled as an
"outlot", and shall be conveyed to an appropriate agency, not for profit
corporation, municipality or other entity which shall own and control the area,
and shall be obligated to control and maintain the character and use of the
area in accordance with the designated purposes. If the village does not have
an appropriate grantee available to take title to said area, it shall be
conveyed to the village subject to the condition that the area be used and
maintained only in accordance with such designated use. (Ord. 90-O-03, 7-25-
1990)
9-1-10-1: MANAGEMENT OF PONDS AND NATURAL AREAS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this section to regulate the
care, maintenance, and management of ponds, wetlands, drainageways, prairies,
forested lands and other open space or natural areas on village owned property
in order to enhance, protect and preserve ecological values and the health,
safety, and welfare of the village.
   B.   Regulated Activities: The provisions of this section apply to all
village owned land and water areas within the corporate limits. This section
does not apply to privately owned land or any other lands not owned by the
village. Routine landscape maintenance activities such as roadside mowing
conducted by the village or its contractors and tree trimming, performed by or
on behalf of a public utility along utility rights of way are exempt from the
provisions of this section. Regulated activities include, but are not limited
to:
      1.   Use of aquatic herbicides, algaecides, or pesticides or other
chemicals designed to alter the quality or character of ponds;
      2.   Mechanical or other physical cutting, uprooting, or other removal of
aquatic plants or algae in ponds;
      3.   Installation or use of pond aeration equipment;
      4.   Operation of a water control structure;
      5.   Installation of underwater habitat improvement structure or projects
to attract and/or feed waterfowl;
      6.   Measures to discourage site usage by Canada geese;
      7.   Stocking of fish, forage species, and other aquatic species;
      8.   Cutting, mowing, herbiciding, or controlled burning of any plant
species in wetlands, prairies, forested areas, or other natural areas;
      9.   Installation of seed plants, trees, and shrubs in ponds, wetlands,
prairies, forested areas, or other natural areas;
      10.   Such other ecological management measures as determined by the
board of trustees to be in need of regulation.
   C.   Management Plan:
      1.   All persons, organizations, homeowners' associations, or their
agents seeking to conduct regulated ecological management activities on village
owned lands are required to submit a plan of the proposed management activities
to the village for review and approval. The village, its officers, agents and
employees are specifically exempt from the plan submittal requirement.
      2.   Plans shall include:
         a.   A statement of objectives and a description of the type of
activity(ies) being proposed;
         b.   Identification of invasive, undesirable, or nuisance species
proposed for control;
         c.   Specific method(s) to be used for control (e.g., use of
glyphosate herbicide for control of reed canary grass; professional trapping of
nuisance beaver; copper sulfate applications for algae control in ponds);
         d.   Identification of who will directly conduct or perform the
management activity being proposed (e.g., contractor, individual, homeowners'
group);
         e.   Map or aerial photograph description of natural area or pond to
be managed, keyed to the description of the specific management methods so far
as possible;
         f.   Schedule for initiation and completion of the proposed activity
and an indication of whether the activity will be a one time or a recurrent
event;
         g.   Estimated budget for each major element of the management program
being undertaken, with a total of all such budgeted items;
         h.   Certificate of insurance stating that the person, firm or
organization conducting the proposed activities has continuing coverage for the
following risks in the following amounts:
 
Workers' compensation Statutory limits
General liability     $1,000,000.00
Automobile            1,000,000.00
 
The certificate of insurance shall name the village of Green Oaks as an
additional insured.
         i.   If seeding, planting of vegetation or stocking of fish is
proposed, the management plan shall identify the species (by scientific name)
proposed for seeding, planting, or stocking as well as the quantity or rate of
seeding, planting, or stocking;
      3.   The village will forward the proposed management plan to its
ecological consultant, as identified in the village watershed development
ordinance, for review and approval. No management activities shall be conducted
without prior management plan approval. The village ecological consultant shall
have twenty one (21) days to review and approve or disapprove of the plan
following receipt of the plan from the village. The ecological consultant shall
observe and monitor management activities to ensure conformity with the
management plan and to otherwise safeguard the interests of the village.
      4.   No activities regulated hereby shall be undertaken, nor shall any
plan submitted hereunder be effective, unless approved by the corporate
authorities of the village. The village retains the authority to disapprove any
management activity or plan that alters the essential character of the property
for which it is proposed.
      5.   Before approval of any management plan as provided for herein, the
person, firm or organization submitting such plan must provide a performance
bond, acceptable letter of credit or other guarantee acceptable to the village,
guaranteeing the complete performance of all portions of the plan. The terms
and provisions of this performance guarantee shall be as set forth in
subsections
9-4-4A through H of this title, with the exception that the village ecological
consultant shall be responsible for approving the cost of the plan, approving
reductions to the amount of the guarantee, and certifying completion of the
management activities. (Ord. 2003-O-5, 3-26-2003)
9-1-11: IMPACT FEES FOR ROADS AND SCHOOLS:
9-1-11-1: GENERAL:
As a condition of approval of a final plat of the subdivision, each subdivider
of more than six (6) acres shall be required to dedicate land for a school
site, park site, or other public land to serve the immediate and future needs
of the residents of the development; or cash contributions in lieu of actual
land dedication; or a combination of both, at the option of the village in
accordance with the following criteria and formula:
The comprehensive plan shall be used as a guideline in locating sites. (Ord.
90-O-03, 7-25-1990)
9-1-11-2: PARKS, PRESERVES AND OTHER PUBLIC AREAS:
   A.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate density of a proposed
development shall bear directly upon the amount of land required for
dedication. The total requirement shall be one acre of land per one hundred
fifty (1:150) of ultimate population in accordance with the following standards
by types of recreational and park areas:
      1.   Neighborhood park: Minimum one acre.
      2.   Villagewide recreational park: Minimum five (5) acres.
   B.   Population Formula: The formula used shall be four and four-tenths
(4.4) population per lot.
   C.   Location:
      1.   Neighborhood parks are to be located within the subdivision or added
to another adjacent subdivision.
      2.   Villagewide parks shall be located in accordance with the
requirements of the comprehensive plan or as recommended by the plan commission
and approved by the board of trustees.
   D.   Credit For Private Open Spaces And Recreational Areas: When subdividers
provide their own space for recreational areas and facilities, it has the
effect of reducing the demand for public recreational services. Depending on
the size of the subdivision, a portion of the park and recreational area in the
subdivision may, at the option of the board of trustees, be provided in the
form of "public" open space. The extent of same shall be determined by the
board of trustees, based upon the needs projected by residents and in
conformance to the total park and recreation land for the general area.
   E.   Criteria For Requiring A Cash Contribution In Lieu Of Land Dedication:
      1.   Cash Contribution: Where the subdivision is small and the resulting
site is too small to be practical or where the available land is inappropriate
for school site, park site or other public use, the village may require the
subdivider to pay a cash contribution in lieu of land dedication. The cash
contribution in lieu of land dedication shall be held by the village solely for
the acquisition of a school site, park site or public land facilities or
buildings which will be available to serve the immediate or future needs of the
residents of that subdivision and the general village residents or for the
improvement of other existing public land which already serves such needs. This
contribution shall be designated by the board of trustees for a specific use
within ten (10) years of the completion of the subdivision.
      2.   Fair Market Value: The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be
based on the "fair market value" of the acres of land in the area improved as
specified herein, that otherwise would have been dedicated as park and
recreation sites. The subdivider shall submit an appraisal showing the "fair
market value" of such improved land in the area of his development or other
evidence thereof and final determination of said "fair market value" of such
improved land in the area of his development or other evidence thereof and
final determination of said "fair market value" per acre of such improved land
shall be made by the board of trustees based upon such information submitted by
the subdivider.
   F.   Criteria For Requiring Land Dedication And A Contribution: There may be
situations where it will be necessary to require a combination of land
dedication and a contribution to meet the needs of this chapter. Such
recommendations shall be made by the plan commission and approved by the board
of trustees.
   G.   Reservation Of Additional Land: Where the development plan or the
requirements of the village call for a larger amount of park and recreational
land in a particular subdivision than the developer, is required to dedicate,
the land needed beyond the developers contribution shall be reserved for
subsequent purchase by the village or other public body designated by the
village; provided, that such acquisition is made within one year from the date
of approval of the final plat, or an agreement between the developer and the
village is recorded outlining specific conditions for the conveyance of such
property.
   H.   Combining With Adjoining Developments: Where the subdivision is less
than forty (40) acres, public open space which is to be dedicated should, where
possible, be combined with dedications from adjoining subdivisions in order to
produce usable recreation areas without hardship on a particular subdivider.
   I.   Topography And Grading: The slope, topography and geology of the
dedicated site as well as its surroundings must be suitable for its intended
purposes.
   J.   Improvement Of Sites: Parks and recreational sites shall be dedicated
fully developed ready for use. "Fully developed" shall mean all site grading
including surface drainage and seeding and sodding required for the intended
use, but not including final development such as baseball, tennis or like
facilities nor any structures. "Fully developed" shall also mean providing
adequate access to and fully developed perimeter streets. (Ord. 90-O-03, 7-25-
1990)
CHAPTER 2
PLATTING PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Plat Approval Procedure
9-2-1-1: Application
9-2-1-2: Sketch Plan
9-2-1-3: Preliminary Plat Approval
9-2-1-4: Final Plat Approval
9-2-2: Specifications for Plats
9-2-2-1: Sketch Plan and Supporting Documents
9-2-2-2: Preliminary Plat and Supporting Documents
9-2-2-3: Engineering Plans and Drawings
9-2-2-4: Final Plat
9-2-2-5: Supplementary Documents
9-2-3: Recording Final Plat
9-2-4: Deposits
9-2-5: Supplemental Documents
9-2-1: PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Stages of Process: All subdivision plats shall be processed in three
(3) stages leading to approval for recording: except that, as provided in this
Title the first stage may be waived. The three (3) stages are: the sketch plan,
the preliminary plat and the final plat. (Ord. 90-19, 11-28-90)
   B.   Final Plat Approval Required: No land shall be subdivided and filed for
record, no building permits issued, and no improvements or construction
permitted until a final plat for that development has been approved and
recorded.
   C.   Prior Final Plat Approval: If a final plat of subdivision has
heretofore been approved prior to the effective date hereof but no improvements
have been constructed subsequent to said approval, then the subdivider and/or
developer shall follow the applicable procedures for filing, review and
approval of the preliminary and final engineering plans as are otherwise
provided herein for any new subdivision. All provisions relative to guarantees
of performance (as set forth in Section
9-4-4) and inspection of improvements (as set forth in Section
9-4-5) shall also apply.
   D.   Plat Approval Process: The complete plat approval process shall include
seven (7) steps which are as follows:
      1.   Application form with required additional documents and payment of
fee.
      2.   Sketch plan submitted for conceptual review.
      3.   Preliminary plat submitted for approval.
      4.   Hearings and approval on preliminary plat
      5.   Final plat submitted for approval.
      6.   Village Board approval.
      7.   Recording of final plat (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-2-1-1: APPLICATION:
The Village shall provide an application form to be submitted by the owner or
his authorized agent. The application shall be submitted to the Village Clerk
with supporting documents and the filing fee and deposit. An application shall
be submitted before each of the stages, namely: sketch plan, preliminary plat
and final plat. The application form may be the same for each stage, provided
the information is up to date at the time of each application and it is
accompanied by the supplementary documents required at that stage.
   A.   Application Form: The application form shall contain the following
information: (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
      1.   Land owner with verification of owner as hereinafter required. (Ord.
94-23, 9-28-94)
      2.   Legal description.
      3.   Proposed developer (if different).
      4.   Consultants (if known), including engineer, surveyor, planner, and
others.
      5.   Description of proposed subdivision.
      6.   Approximate acreage and proposed number of lots.
      7.   Name of proposed subdivision.
      8.   Such other information as the board may direct.
   B.   Surveys And Other Documents: Surveys and other documents as set forth
in the following sections shall be submitted with the application. The
applicant shall provide twenty (20) copies (unless otherwise hereinafter
provided), of every document submitted. All documents shall either be on eight
and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") paper or folded into a size not
over nine inches by twelve inches (9" x 12").
   C.   Plan Or Plat: The application shall include a sketch plan or proposed
preliminary or final plat. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-1990)
   D.   Filing Fees And Deposits: The applicant shall pay at the time of filing
each application: 1) a nonrefundable filing fee to defray the costs and
expenses of the village board and plan commission review of the plan or plat
submitted; and where appropriate 2) an escrow deposit consistent with the
provisions of title 2, chapter 4, "Development Fees And Costs", of this code.
Filing fees and deposits are as follows:
For a sketch plan review                 $ 75.00
Filing fees:                              
 For a preliminary plat review:          
    Minor subdivision                250.00
    Major subdivision                 $1,500.00 plus $25.00 per lot over 5
                                          lots
 For final plat review                   None unless no preliminary review,
                                          then preliminary rate applies
Deposits:                                 
  Initial escrow deposit at preliminary   As required by title 2, chapter 4,
 review:                                 "Development Fees And Costs", of this
                                          code
 
   E.   Costs Charged For Plat Review: As required by title 2, chapter 4,
"Development Fees And Costs", of this code.
   F.   Reimbursement Of Escrow Fund: As required by title 2, chapter 4,
"Development Fees And Costs", of this code. (Ord. 2012-O-10, 8-22-2012)
   G.   Filing: The applicant shall submit twenty (20) copies of each of the
application form, the survey, and the sketch plan or preliminary plat or final
plat and supporting documents to the village clerk. At the time of filing,
applicant shall pay the filing fee in cash or certified funds.
   H.   Distribution: Within ten (10) days after applicant has filed a complete
application, the village clerk shall deliver one copy to each of the following:
all village board members, all plan commission members, the Village Engineer,
the Village Attorney and the Village Zoning Officer.
   I.   Board Action: Within forty five (45) days of the filing of the
application, the Board shall direct the Plan Commission, the Village Engineer
and the Village Zoning Officer to meet with applicant. In the case of a sketch
plan, the plan shall be reviewed for guidance and information regarding the
proposed subdivision of the land and the applicant advised accordingly. In the
case of a preliminary or final plat, the plat shall be reviewed for
conformance, hearings conducted as hereinafter required, and reports submitted
to the Village Board within sixty five (65) days after receipt by the Plan
Commission; and the Village Board shall accept or reject the plat within forty
five (45) days after receiving the Plan Commission report thereon.
   J.   Extension of Time: In the event that the Plan Commission or the Village
Board wishes to delay action on making its report of accepting or rejecting, as
the case may be, the date for such action may be extended only by agreement
with the applicant. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
   K.   Proof of Ownership: The application form, at each stage shall be
accompanied by a current title commitment from a title insurance company
licensed in the State setting forth the present ownership of all of the
property proposed to be included in the subdivision, along with copies of all
document, plats or other matters of record which are raised as an exception or
objection to clear merchantable title to the premises. Applications, after the
first stage, may be accompanied by the original commitment and documents, etc.,
provided that the owner shall verify that the condition of title has not
changed since the submission of the original commitment.
   L.   Taxes: No parcel shall be considered for resubdivision if there are any
delinquent real estate taxes shown to be due by the title commitment.
   M.   Signature: The application shall be signed by the proposed developer,
and, (if different), the owner or owners of record. (Ord. 94-23, 9-28-94)
9-2-1-2: SKETCH PLAN:
The sketch plan stage is not required and is voluntary for the benefit of the
applicant. In order to avoid preparation of plats which are contrary to the
ordinance requirements and to advise the applicant of the preferences of the
Village, applicants are urged to take advantage of this informal opportunity to
consult with the Village Plan Commission and Village Board.
   A.   Survey: The survey submitted with a sketch plat may be a boundary
survey only.
   B.   Sketch Plan: It is suggested that for major subdivisions the plan
include the following:
      1.   Map: Location map, 1" = 2000'
      2.   Topography: Existing topography, 1 foot intervals
      3.   Flood Plains: Existing flood plains and floodways and wetlands (per
U.S. Army Corps standards)
      4.   Trees: Existing trees/wooded areas
      5.   Lots: Proposed lots with approximate dimensions and areas
      6.   Site Sketch Plan: A site sketch plan showing:
         a.   Boundaries of the property to be subdivided.
         b.   Land characteristics such as natural drainage, swamp areas,
wooded areas, ridges, soil characteristics and flood hazards, as shown on Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and Floodway Map dated March 2, 1981, and amendments
thereto.
         c.   Development characteristics such as surrounding streets, existing
structures, and available utilities.
         d.   Proposed layout of streets, blocks, and lots and the proposed
location of park, and other nonresidential areas.
         e.   Existing easements and covenants affecting the property.
         f.   Existing zoning and zoning district boundaries on and adjacent to
the subject site.
      7.   Location Sketch: Location sketch showing the relationship of the
proposed subdivision to traffic arteries, public transportation, Municipal
utilities, schools, and churches.
      8.   Statement of Petitioner's Interest: Written statement of the
petitioner's interest in the proposed subdivision and description of the
features of the proposal that the petitioner believes are in the interest and
benefit of the Village. Included in the written statement shall be a
preliminary development schedule, a year by year projection of estimated
assessed valuation to be added, and a year by year projection of population to
be added by the development. The population projection shall be based on
factors to be supplied by the Plan Commission to the developer.
   C.   Review and Reports: The Plan Commission shall notify the applicant or
his representatives of the meeting, (at their regular meeting times), at which
it will review the sketch plan. At the meeting, (or thereafter in writing at
the applicant's request), the applicant will be advised of the Plan
Commission's, Village Engineer's and Village Zoning Officer's comments on the
sketch plan including any suggestions for change to improve its conformance to
the ordinances and the Village's requirements. Thereafter, at the applicant's
request or the Plan Commission's direction, the sketch plan may be submitted to
the Annexation, Planning, Zoning Committee of the Village Board for further
comment and suggestions. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-2-1-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL:
The preliminary plat is a drawing, and when necessary, accompanied by other
engineering drawings, on which final review for adherence to design standards
and improvement proposals is based.
   A.   Preparation: This plat shall be prepared by a surveyor or engineer
subsequent to and in accordance with the agreements reached in the sketch plan
conference. It shall be prepared in accordance with all applicable provisions
of this Title and other ordinances and shall be submitted in twenty (20)
copies.
   B.   Filing: The preliminary plat shall be considered officially filed after
it is examined by the Plan Commission and found to be in full compliance with
the specifications governing the preparations of plats and plans, and after the
required procedural steps have been duly taken.
   C.   Review: The Village Engineer, Village Zoning Officer and the Village
Attorney shall check the plat for compliance with the appropriate portions of
this Title and other applicable regulations. A written report recommending
approval or disapproval and giving the reasons therefor shall be sent to the
Plan Commission by each of them within forty five (45) days.
   D.   Accompanying Documents and Developer Report Responsibilities:
      1.   Before a preliminary plat may be considered for approval, it shall
be accompanied by the approval in writing of the State for any preliminary plat
containing thereon or bordering on any public waters in which the State has any
property rights or property interest. It shall be the responsibility of the
developer to solicit such approval.
      2.   Before a preliminary plat may be considered for approval, it shall
be accompanied by a natural resource opinion from the Lake County Soil and
Water Conservation District. It shall be the responsibility of the developer to
make such application and pay any required fees to the Lake County Soil and
Water Conservation District.
      3.   Where the preliminary plat contains utility easements, the plat
shall be accompanied by a written statement bearing signature of an authorized
employee of the utility company attesting to the suitability of said easements
for the purpose shown before a preliminary plat may be considered for approval.
      4.   U.S. Army Corps of Engineer/Illinois Department of Transportations
wetlands report.
      5.   Lake County Department of Transportation report and traffic impact
study.
      6.   Documents suggested in subsection
9-2-1-2B are required to be submitted with preliminary plats. (Ord. 90-03, 7-
25-90)
   E.   Preliminary Plat Approval and Hearing: The Plan Commission shall review
the plat and approve or disapprove the plat, and submit its recommendation
giving written reasons therefor, to the Village Board within ninety (90) days.
The Village Board shall review and accept or reject the recommendation of the
Plan Commission giving written reasons therefor. The Village Board shall
conduct a hearing on the question of accepting or rejecting the recommendation
of the Plan Commission at its next regular meeting held more than ten (10) days
after receiving this report. Within three (3) business days after the
recommendation of the Plan Commission has been received by the Village Board,
the president of the school board of each elementary and high school district
in which a part of the subdivision is located shall be given notice by the
Village Clerk by certified mail as required by statute, of the recommendations
of the Plan Commission and the date and place at which the Village Board shall
conduct a hearing thereon, at which time they may be heard on the issue of
approving or disapproving the plat. (Ord. 90-19, 11-28-90)
   F.   Time Allowed to Submit Final Plat: If a final plat is not submitted
within one year of date of approval, the preliminary plat shall expire unless
approval has been extended, or unless a reservation is shown on the plat for
good cause shown.
Time Extension: One, and only one extension, not to exceed six (6) months, may
be granted by the Plan Commission.
   G.   Distribution: In addition to furnishing twenty (20) copies of all
documents filed, the applicant shall at the time of filing the application for
preliminary plat, submit to the Village Clerk, evidence that he has delivered a
copy of all documents filed to each of the following persons:
      1.   Heath Officer (being the Lake County Health Department).
      2.   Chief of the Libertyville Fire Protection District.
      3.   Superintendent of Lake County Department of Transportation.
      4.   Superintendent of Lake County Department of Public Works.
      5.   The superintendent of each school district in which part or all of
the subdivision is located.
      6.   Such other persons as the Village may hereafter designate. (Ord. 90-
03, 7-25-90)
9-2-1-4: FINAL PLAT APPROVAL:
The final plat is a record of the subdivision as surveyed in the field. It
shows property lines and other dimensions important to the subdivider in
selling lots, and to the public in keeping records of street lines, easements,
and utility locations. Recording of the final plat authorizes the issuance of
building permits, but does not constitute acceptance of proffered or required
dedications.
   A.   Procedures: After the Plan Commission and the Village Board have
approved the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall prepare and submit to said
Plan Commission a final plat of subdivision in recordable time together with
the following supporting documents:
      1.   Complete plans and specifications, approved by the Engineer of the
Village, providing for the improvements to be made in the subdivision,
including sanitary sewers, storm water sewers, drains, water distribution
system, pavements, and all other improvements proposed or required.
      2.   A property executed subdivision agreement, wherein the subdivision
and/or owner agrees (subject to approval of the final plat of subdivision by
the Village Board) to install at his expense the improvements, proposed and
required in accordance with the plans and specification, required in subsection
A1 above, within the time limit set forth in said agreement.
      3.   A properly completed and executed letter of credit or other
comparable financial guarantee as may be approved by the Village Attorney with
an expiration date of not less than ninety (90) days after all improvements are
to be completed in accordance required in subsection A2 above, unless otherwise
approved by the Village Board. Said letter of credit or other comparable
financial guarantee shall be provided in an amount as required by the Village
Engineer, but in no case shall it be less than one hundred fifty percent (150%)
of the Engineer's estimate of the cost of the improvement, as set forth in the
plans and specifications required in subsection A1 above, plus the cost of
engineering inspections, as set forth in the schedule of fees, as provided in
Section
9-2-4 of this Chapter. Such letter of credit or other financial guarantee shall
always be maintained in an amount not less than one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the estimate aforesaid of any balance due for improvements.
      4.   Evidence satisfactory to the Plan Commission, showing that all taxes
and past due installments on special assessments due on the property to be
subdivided have been paid.
      5.   Evidence satisfactory to the Plan Commission, showing that all other
conditions and requirements of tentative approval have been met.
   B.   Staff Review: The documents required to be approved by the Village
Engineer and Village Attorney shall be submitted to them within ten (10) days
after the filed documents have been reviewed by the Plan Commission and found
to be complete. These officers shall submit their required reports to the Plan
Commission within forty five (45) days after receiving the documents to be
approved.
      1.   Village Attorney: When the final plat is submitted, the subdivider
shall submit therewith a proposed form of guarantee of performance as required
by Section
9-4-4 of this Title. The Village Attorney shall examine and approve the final
plat and form of guarantee of performance as to conformance to Village
requirements before the final plat is submitted to the Plan Commission for
review.
      2.   Village Engineer The Village Engineer shall examine the final plat
and determine if the plat meets the Village's engineering requirements. Upon
such determination, the Village Engineer shall sign the plat and submit it to
the Plan Commission. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
   C.   Plan Commission and Village Board Review: The Plan Commission shall
review the final plat to determine if it conforms with the approved preliminary
plat. Upon approval or disapproval of the final plat, the Plan Commission shall
submit its recommendation giving written reasons therefor, to the Village Board
within ninety (90) days. The Village Board shall review and accept or reject
the recommendation of the Plan Commission giving written reasons therefor. The
Village Board shall conduct a hearing on the question of accepting or rejecting
the recommendation of the Plan Commission at its next regular meeting held more
than ten (10) days after receiving the report. Within three (3) business days
after the final plat with the Plan Commission recommendation has been submitted
to the Village Board for approval, the Village Clerk shall notify by certified
mail as required by statute, the president of the school board of each
elementary and high school district in which a part of the subdivision is
located that the plat has been submitted for approval and the date, time and
place of the hearing by the Village Board on approval or disapproval of the
plat.
   D.   Conditioned Approval: In the event that the Village Board finds that
the final plat is satisfactory in form and substance, but is lacking certain
specific items, including but not limited to payment of various fees; final
performance guarantees; approval documents of other agencies of government; and
other documents or items the Village may require, the subdivision may be
approved conditioned upon the applicant submitting the missing items and
receiving the approval of such items by the Village officer designated by the
Village Board in such conditional approval.
   E.   Final Plat: The final plat is a record of the subdivision as surveyed
in the field. It shows property lines and other dimensions important to the
subdivider in selling lots, and to the public in keeping records of street
lines, easements and utility locations. It is intended that approval be
automatic if the final plat conforms to the approved preliminary plat and meets
the criteria in this Title for approval of a final plat. Upon determining that
the final plat has been approved by the Plan Commission, the Plat Officer shall
sign the plat and submit it to the Village Board for approval. Countersigning
by the Village President after approval by the Village Board shall constitute
final approval and authorize the recording of the final plat.
   F.   Recording: Recording of the final plat authorizes the issuance of
building permits, provided that the developer has installed all improvements
or, in the alternative, has posted bond or other sufficient security as set
forth in Section
9-4-4 of this Title, and the recording of the final plat constitutes acceptance
of proffered or required dedications. Recording of the plat does not constitute
acceptance of any streets or other improvements required to be made, whether or
not on dedicated rights of way.
   G.   Building Permits: If building permits are to be issued prior to the
completion of all improvements required to be made as a condition of approval
of the plat at the time of issuance, the property owner must sign the building
permit indicating that he or she acknowledges that no occupancy permit shall be
issued unless and until all improvements required to be made as a condition of
approval of the plat of the subdivision in which the construction is to take
place have been fully completed and received the approval of the Village Board.
No occupancy permit shall issue for a residence situated within a subdivision
unless and until all improvements required to be made as a condition of the
approval of the plat, with the exception of the one inch (1") final bituminous
concrete course described in subsection 9-4A-6G, within the subdivision have
been completely installed and received the approval of the Village Board.
   H.   Conditions for Disapproval: Disapproval is warranted upon, but not
limited to, the following conditions:
      1.   There are deviations from the preliminary plat;
      2.   More than one year has elapsed since preliminary plat approval;
      3.   A new street, highway, pipeline or other construction or major
feature that has been constructed planned or has directly affected the site by
virtue of such improvement being placed on the Official Plan of the Village.
      4.   If the required written consent has not been obtained from the
Illinois Department of Transportation, Division of Highways or Water Resources,
Lake County Highway Department. Lake County Public Works, or Lake County Health
Department, the final plat shall not be approved.
      5.   If the plat or the supporting documents fail to meet the
requirements of this Title. (Ord. 90-19, 11-28-90)
   I.   Staged Development: Submission of a final plat covering only a portion
of the area by a preliminary plat may be permitted after consideration of the
effect on the continuity of roads, utilities, and services; provided, that all
of the requirements of the entire subdivision, e.g., major access roads,
retention basins, buffer zones and open space dedication are included in the
first portion of the staged development. Validity of the preliminary plat may
be extended to one year from the date of final approval of any portion thereof.
   J.   Variations and Modifications: Whenever a proposed subdivision fails to
conform to the strict terms of this Title or of the Zoning Title, so that
either a hardship modification as provided in subsection
9-6-3A of this Title, or a variation as provided in the Zoning Title 1  is
required, to warrant approval of the proposed subdivision, hearings as required
in either instance, shall be conducted and the hearing report and
recommendations of the Plan Commission or Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
submitted to the Village Board prior to its review and consideration of the
final plat. Thereafter, consideration of said final plat and the proposed
hardship modification and zoning variations shall be concurrent. (Ord. 90-03,
7-25-90)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  8-10-2 of this Code.
9-2-2: SPECIFICATIONS FOR PLATS:
9-2-2-1: SKETCH PLAN AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS:
The subdivider shall meet with the Plan Commission in a preliminary conference
which shall be scheduled by appointment. Prior to the conference he shall
submit to the Plat Officer the following:
   A.   Site Sketch Plan: A site sketch plan showing:
      1.   Boundaries of the property to be subdivided.
      2.   Land characteristics such as natural drainage, swamp areas, wooded
areas, ridges, soil characteristics and flood hazards, as shown on Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and Floodway Map dated March 2, 1981, and amendments
thereto 1 .
      3.   Development characteristics such as surrounding streets, existing
structures, and available utilities.
      4.   Proposed layout of streets, blocks, and lots and the proposed
location of park, and other nonresidential areas.
      5.   Existing easements and covenants affecting the property.
      6.   Existing zoning and zoning district boundaries on and adjacent to
the subject site.
   B.   Location Sketch: Location sketch showing the relationship of the
proposed subdivision to traffic arteries, public transportation, Municipal
utilities, schools, and churches.
   C.   Statement of Petitioner's Interest: Written statement of the
petitioner's interest in the proposed subdivision and description of the
features of the proposal that the petitioner believes are in the interest and
benefit of the Village. Included in the written statement shall be a
preliminary development schedule, a year by year projection of estimated
assessed valuation to be added, and a year by year projection of population to
be added by the development. The population projection shall be based on
factors to be supplied by the Plan Commission to the developer. (Ord. 90-03, 7-
25-90)
 
Notes
1 2. See Title 8, Chapter 8 of this Code for Flood Plain Regulations.
9-2-2-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS:
The preliminary plat shall be drawn or printed on paper at a scale of one
hundred feet to one inch (100' = 1"), unless a different scale is approved at
the sketch plan conference. This plat shall show or be accompanied by the
following information:
   A.   Title and Certificate: Name under which the proposed subdivision is to
be recorded, location and position by quarter-quarter section, section,
township, range, meridian, county, and state; names and addresses of
subdividers; notation stating scale, north arrow; and the following
certificate:
State of Illinois, County of Lake, Village of Green Oaks
Approved by                              ( ) day of                      ,
19    A.D.
Name of subdivision must be original and not duplicate or be substantially
similar to any existing Lake County subdivision.
   B.   Boundary Lines: Complete survey data such as angles, bearings,
dimensions, curve data, etc., shall be shown for the exterior lines of the
subdivision. The error of linear closure of said boundary survey shall be not
greater than one in ten thousand (1 in 10,000).
   C.   Existing Easements: Location, width, and purpose of easements and other
existing restrictions, reservations, or covenants.
   D.   Existing Streets: Existing streets showing pavement width, right-of-way
width, and name; also existing curbs, gutters, culverts, sidewalks, and
building setbacks.
   E.   Existing Utilities: Existing utilities showing location and size of
sanitary and storm sewers; fire hydrants, and location and size of water mains;
location of gas lines, electric and telephone lines.
   F.   Ground Elevations: Ground elevations on the tract, based on 1929 USGS
Sea Level Datum, including: contours at two foot (2') intervals for land that
slopes more than two percent (2%); contours at one foot (1') intervals for land
that slopes less than two percent (2%); and spot elevations at all breaks in
grade, along all drainage channels or swales, and at selected points not more
than one hundred feet (100') apart in all directions. Contours shall not be
taken from USGS maps.
   G.   Surface Conditions: Surface conditions on the tract including
watercourses and surface drainage patterns, marshes, bogs, wooded areas,
isolated preservable trees, natural prairie, and rock outcroppings. The limits
and elevations of flooding as shown on the National Flood Insurance Program
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and Floodway Maps dated March 2, 1981, and
amendments thereto shall be indicated.
   H.   Man-Made Features: Man-made features including houses, barns and other
structures, and other constructed features.
   I.   Location Map: A small-scale two thousand feet to one inch (2,000' = 1")
drawing of the region in which the subdivision is situated, showing the
location of the subdivision, and indicating its relationship to traffic
arteries, community facilities, railroads and other nonresidential land uses or
adverse influences within a radius of two (2) miles. Current boundary lines of
all municipalities within the area of this drawing shall be shown.
   J.   Proposed Public Improvements: Proposed public improvements for future
construction on or near the tract, according to the information received from
the Plat Officer at the sketch plan conference.
   K.   Subsurface Conditions: Subsurface conditions describing depth of ground
water unless test pits are dry at a depth of eight feet (8'); location and
results of any tests made to ascertain subsurface soil and rock conditions.
   L.   On-Site (Septic) Sewage Disposal Systems: A report from the Lake County
Health Department indicating approval of the subdivision for septic systems
shall be submitted for any subdivision with lots to be served by individual on-
site (septic) sewage disposal. The report shall be prepared in accordance with
the regulations and procedures of the Lake County Board of Health Ordinance,
article V, rule II, which regulates the approval of new subdivisions throughout
Lake County. In the event the said Lake County Health Department Regulations
are amended or revised, the report shall be prepared in accordance with the
then current regulations and procedures of the Department, relating to approval
of the subdivision for septic systems.
   M.   Proposed Streets: Proposed streets showing right of way, pavement or
roadway width and proposed names.
   N.   Proposed Easements: Proposed easements showing location, width and
purpose.
   O.   Lot Lines, Building Setback Lines: Lot line approximate dimensions and
building setback lines.
   P.   Reservations, Dedications: Sites to be reserved or dedicated for any
public or semi-public use.
   Q.   Conservancy Areas: The conservancy areas shall be depicted on the face
of the plat and the following language shall be included verbatim on the face
of the plat:
Prohibited Uses:
1. No man-made structure of any kind shall be constructed in the flood plain.
2. The flood plain shall not be filled nor shall the grade be altered in any
respect.
3. No materials shall be utilized or stored which shall have the potential for
polluting either surface or ground water.
4. There shall be no floodway alteration.
5. There shall be no disturbing of natural vegetation.
   R.   Water Facilities: The location of all lakes, ponds, detention sites,
retention sites and dams shall be depicted, and accurately located on the final
plat.
   S.   Data Tabulation: Tabulation of data on gross area, street area, other
dedicated area, net subdivided area, number of lots, average lot size, typical
lot dimensions, and lineal feet of street.
   T.   Proposed Contours: Proposed contours of the finished subdivision.
   U.   Proposed Agreements: Proposed agreements, bylaws, provisions or
covenants which govern the use, maintenance, insurance and continued protection
of the proposed development and its common open areas and other facilities.
   V.   Supplementary Plans and Drawings: When unusual site conditions exist,
the Plat Officer may require such additional plans, specifications and drawings
as he finds necessary for an adequate review of the plat. The Plat Officer
shall request this additional material from the subdivider by letter, stating
therein the information requested and the particular or unusual site conditions
which make this information necessary.
All of the requirements of plat preparation shall apply equally to the site
being subdivided and to all land within two hundred feet (200') of its
boundaries, waiving accuracy requirements as to scale of features but not as to
boundary lines. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-2-2-3: ENGINEERING PLANS AND DRAWINGS:
Whenever improvements are required in the development of a subdivision, the
Engineer shall submit to the Plat Officer triplicate copies of the hereinafter
mentioned plans, specifications, and estimates bearing his signature and the
imprint of his seal.
   A.   Streets: Plans and specifications for street construction, including
center line profile of each street with a typical cross section of the roadway.
The street plan shall show the location of drainage structures and their sizes.
The profile shall be shown to a scale of one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50')
horizontal and one inch equals five feet (1" = 5') vertical (standard Federal
aid sheets are required).
      1.   Traffic Control Analysis: A study of traffic and traffic control
requirements to be incorporated into the subdivision plans.
   B.   Water Supply: Plans, details, specifications, and cost estimates of
proposed community water supply facilities.
   C.   Drainage: Plans, details, specifications, and cost estimates of
proposed storm drainage improvements.
   D.   Sanitary Sewers: Plans, details, specifications, and cost estimates of
proposed community sanitary sewer facilities.
   E.   Individual Lot Plat: Individual lot plat setting forth building site
area, minimum building grade, lot grading plan, drainage structures, easements,
nature preservation areas, individual tree preservation requirements, and any
other restrictions or conditions relating to the use, development and occupancy
of the lot.
   F.   Utilities: Where the plans, details, specifications, and cost estimates
of utility easements, with a written statement bearing the signature of an
authorized employee of the utility company attesting to the suitability of said
easement for the purpose shown. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-2-2-4: FINAL PLAT:
The final plat shall be drawn in waterproof black (India) ink on tracing cloth,
or in their equivalents. Permitted page sizes shall be as follows: thirty six
inches by thirty inches (36" x 30") or eighteen inches by thirty inches (18" x
30"). Other sizes will not be accepted. Scale shall be one hundred feet to one
inch (100' = 1") or larger. Variation in scale may be allowed when determined
by the Plat Officer to be necessary for a proper exhibit of the subdivision.
When one or more sheets are used for any plat, they shall be numbered
consecutively and each sheet shall contain a notation showing the whole number
of sheets in the plat and its relation to the other sheets (e.g., sheet 1 of 3
sheets). Linear dimensions shall be given in feet and decimals of a foot. The
final plat shall show on the face thereof:
   A.   Name: Name of the subdivision.
   B.   Location: Location and position of the subdivision indicated in each of
the following ways: by quarter-quarter section, section, township, range,
meridian, county and state; by distance and bearings from true north and angles
with references to a corner or corners established in the United States Public
Land Survey; and by a written legal description of the exterior boundaries of
the land as surveyed and divided.
   C.   Scale: Scale of the plat, true north arrow and date of preparation. The
top of the plat shall be oriented north.
   D.   Boundary: Boundary of plat, based on an accurate traverse, with angular
and lineal dimensions. The error of linear closure of said boundary survey
shall not be greater than one in ten thousand (1 in 10,000). The length of
boundary lines of all streets, blocks, lots, parcels, easements, and rights of
way or enough information so that the length of these lines can be derived by
simple calculation. Where a boundary line is an arc of a circle, the radius
interior angle and length of chord shall be shown.
   E.   Monuments: The description and location of all survey monuments, survey
data sufficient to reproduce any line or reestablish any monument. True
bearings and distances to the nearest established street lines or official
monuments (not less than 2), which shall be accurately described in the plat.
   F.   Streets:
      1.   Exact location, right-of-way widths, and names of all streets within
and adjoining the plat. The length of boundary lines of all streets, alleys,
blocks, lots, parcels, public grounds, easements, and rights of way, or enough
information so that the length of these lines can be derived by simple
calculation. Where a boundary line is an arc of a circle, the radius interior
angle and the length of the chord shall be shown.
      2.   The abutting street lines of all adjoining subdivisions, shown in
their correct locations by broken lines, shall be indicated.
   G.   Easements: Exact location, dimensions and description of purpose for
all easements, walkways, bicycle paths, and walking trails.
   H.   Lots: Location of all block, lot and parcel lines with accurate
dimensions in feet and hundredths. All blocks, lots and parcels shall be
consecutively numbered throughout the plat and the area indicated on each lot
or parcel.
   I.   Reserved Areas: Accurate outlines and legal description of any area to
be dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purposes indicated thereon,
and of any area to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses of all property
owners.
   J.   Conservancy Areas: The conservancy areas shall be depicted on the face
of the plat and the following language shall be included verbatim on the face
of the plat:
The following prohibitions pertain to all conservancy areas depicted on the
face of this plat:
Prohibited Uses:
1. No man-made structure of any kind shall be constructed in the flood plain.
2. The flood plain shall not be filled nor shall the grade by altered in any
respect.
3. No materials shall be utilized or stored which shall have the potential for
polluting either surface or ground water.
4. There shall be no floodway alteration.
5. There shall be no disturbing of natural vegetation.
   K.   Water Facilities: The location of all lakes, ponds, detention sites,
retention sites and dams shall be depicted, and accurately located on the final
plat.
   L.   Building Setback Lines: Building setback lines accurately shown with
dimensions.
   M.   Protective Covenants: Protective covenants which meet the approval of
the Plan Commission shall be lettered on the final plat.
   N.   Water: The graphic location and labeling of any water bodies including
lakes, ponds, streams, and storm water detention and retention facilities and
showing the permanent surface water elevation and the elevation and high-water
marks of such bodies and the boundary lines and elevations of the base 100-year
flood plain.
   O.   Certificates: The final plat shall show thereon the following
certificates duly processed and signed using waterproof ink.
      1.   Owner's Certificate:
State of Illinois   ) ss
County of Lake   )
   This is to certify that the undersigned is the sole owner of the land
described in the annexed plat, that no other person has any right, title or
interest in said land, and that he has caused the same to be surveyed and
subdivided as indicated thereon, for the uses and purposes therein set forth,
and does hereby acknowledge and adopt the same under the title thereon
indicated.
   DATED this       day of                  A.D. 19   
                                               
                                               
               (Address)
      2.   Notary's Certificate:
State of Illinois   ) ss
County of Lake   )
   I,           , Notary Public in and for said County, in the state aforesaid,
do hereby certify that               , personally known to me to be the same
persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument as such owners,
appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged that they signed and
delivered the annexed plat as their own free and voluntary act for the uses and
purposes therein set forth.
   Given under my hand and seal at                   , Illinois,
the           day of                           A.D. 19   .
(SEAL)
                                                 
               Notary Public
      3.   Surveyor's Certificate:
State of Illinois   ) ss
County of Lake   )
   This is to certify that I,              , a Registered Illinois Land
Surveyor, No.      , have surveyed and subdivided that property as described
and as shown by the annexed plat, which is a correct representation of said
survey and subdivision. All distances are shown in feet and decimals thereof.
   Given under my hand and seal at                 , Illinois,
this             day of                      A.D. 19    .
(SEAL)
                                                
               Registered Illinois
               Land Surveyor
      4.   County Clerk's Certificate:
State of Illinois   ) ss
County of Lake   )
   I,             , County Clerk of Lake County, Illinois, do hereby certify
that there are no delinquent general taxes, no unpaid current general taxes, no
unpaid forfeited taxes and no redeemable tax sales against any of the land
included in the annexed plat.
   Given under my hand and seal of the County Court at Waukegan, Illinois,
this          day of          A.D. 19   .
(SEAL)
                                                                   
               County Clerk
      5.   Village Certificate:
State of Illinois   ) ss
County of Lake   )
   Approved this           day of              A.D. 19   .
By                                    
Plat Officer
                                                                             
Village Clerk Village President
Village of Green Oaks
      6.   Village Engineer's Certificate:
State of Illinois   ) ss
County of Lake   )
   I,            , Village Engineer for the Village of Green Oaks, do hereby
certify that the annexed plat has been examined by me and found to comply with
the engineering requirements, as set forth in the Subdivision Regulations of
Green Oaks, Illinois.
   Dated this           day of                A.D. 19   .
                                               
               Village Engineer
(Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-2-2-5: SUPPLEMENTARY DOCUMENTS:
In addition to the final plat of subdivision, the developer shall submit and
the Board shall approve for recording, the following documents:
   A.   Individual lot plats as required in subsection
9-2-2-3E, duly prepared with a surveyors certificate and a Village certificate
as above required in Section
9-2-2-4 for the final plat.
   B.   Covenants and restrictions as may be required under the Title duly
executed by the owner and with a Village certificate.
   C.   As a condition of approval of a final plat, prior thereto, a subdivider
or developer shall submit a development plan of all open space easements,
showing the dimensions thereof, the extent and nature of all significant
natural vegetation, both forest and prairie, all berms sought to be
constructed, the amount and size and type of all planting sought to be
installed. Such plan shall be reviewed by the landscape architect with the
landscape architect's written comments being forwarded to the Plan Commission
to be considered by the Plan Commission. Said Plan Commission shall approve,
disapprove, or suggest whatever modifications are necessary in keeping with
this subsection and may require a bond in the amount of one hundred fifty
percent (150%) of the cost of the proposed development, if the Plan Commission
determines that it is in the best interests of the Village to do the same.
(Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-2-3: RECORDING FINAL PLAT:
After the plat is approved, the Village Clerk shall submit the approved final
plat to the Lake County Recorder for recording. The Village Clerk shall also
record any other documents of conveyance, declaration, deeds, grants of
easement of other documents submitted with the final plat and directed by the
Village Board to be recorded. The Village Clerk shall, within five (5) working
days after recording, notify the Plat Officer of the time of recordation and
supply the Plat Officer with an exact copy on mylar or linen of the plat as
recorded and a reproducible copy of the approved engineering plans and
specifications which shall become the property of the Village. Recording of the
approved final development plat authorizes the issuance of building permits,
but does not constitute acceptance of proffered or required dedications. (Ord.
90-03, 7-25-90)
9-2-4: DEPOSITS 1  :
   A.   Deposits: Deposits required with each application shall be used to
defray the expenses hereinafter set forth. The amount of each deposit after the
initial deposit shall be sufficient to bring the deposit balance to the amount
required for that level of review after crediting the balance remaining on
deposit from the previous deposits made. It no further application is made for
one hundred eighty (180) days after the last application was processed, or
after the processing of the final plat the Village Treasurer shall return any
unexpected balance in the deposit fund to the applicant as directed by Village
Board.
   B.   Examination Costs: The subdivider shall pay all costs and fees, and
hearing costs, reproduction expenses, miscellaneous costs for engineering
examination and Attorney's examination provided for in subsections
9-2-1-1D, E, F, as well as all costs of recording the proposed subdivision.
   C.   Fee Expense Deposit: The amount of the deposit shall be estimated by
the Village Engineer and the Village Attorney on the basis of the facts set
forth in the preliminary plat. After the final plat has been approved, before
recording, the subdivider shall deposit additional sums sufficient to pay the
cost of inspections and other costs and fees which may become due as provided
in Section
9-4-7 of this Title. The amount of the deposit shall be estimated by the
Village Engineer and the Village Attorney, and, if the funds are determined to
be insufficient at anytime to meet anticipated costs, the subdivider shall, on
ten (10) days' notice, make additional deposits as required. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-
90)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  9-19-1 of this Title.
9-2-5: SUPPLEMENTAL DOCUMENTS:
The subdivider shall secure and maintain such insurance from an insurance
company authorized to write casualty insurance in the State where the work is
located as will protect himself, his subcontractors, the Village and the
engineer and his employees from claims from bodily injury, death or property
damage which may arise from subdividing the property. The subdivider shall not
commence work until he has obtained all insurance required under this Section
and shall have filed the certificate of insurance or the certified copy of the
insurance policy with the Village. Each insurance policy shall contain a clause
providing that it shall not be canceled by the insurance company without ten
(10) days written notice to the Village of intention of cancel. The amount of
such insurance shall be not less than the following:
   A.   1. Workmen's compensation and employer's liability insurance shall be
secured and maintained as required by the State.
      2.   Public liability, bodily injury and property damage:
         a.   Injury or death of one person - $500,000.00.
         b.   Injury to more than one person in a single accident -
$1,000,000.00.
         c.   Property damage - $250,000.00.
      3.   Automobile and truck public liability, bodily injury and property
damage:
         a.   Injury of death of one person - $500,000.00.
         b.   Injury to more than one person - $1,000,000.00.
         c.   Property damage - $250,000.00.
   B.   Indemnify: The subdivider shall indemnity and save harmless the Village
and the Engineer and his employees from and against all losses and all claims,
demands, payments, suits, actions, recoveries and judgments of every nature and
description brought or recovered against him by reason of any omission or act
of the subdivider, his agents or employees in the execution of the work or in
the guarding of it. The subdivider shall obtain in the name of the Village fire
insurance and shall maintain and pay the premiums for such insurance in such
amount and with such provisions as will protect the Village from contingent
liability and a copy of such insurance policy or policies shall be delivered to
the Village. Full compliance by the Village with the terms and provisions of
such insurance policy or policies shall be a condition precedent to the
insurance policy or policies shall be a condition precedent to the Village's
right to enforce against the subdivider any provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   Fire Insurance: In addition to such fire insurance as the subdivider
elects to carry for his own protection, he shall secure and maintain in the
name of the Village policies upon such structures and material and in such
amounts as shall be designated. The policies shall be secured from a company
which is satisfactory to the Village and delivered to the Village. (Ord. 90-03,
7-25-90)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-3-1: General Requirements
9-3-2: Streets
9-3-3: Blocks
9-3-4: Lots
9-3-5: Easements
9-3-6: Landscaping
9-3-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Conformity to Plans: All subdivisions shall conform to the Village
Official Plan, to the Zoning Title and subdivision regulations of the Village
and to all other applicable ordinances, resolutions and plans.
   B.   Natural Features: Each subdivision shall be appropriate to the
topography, the drainage, and other natural features of the site. Developments
shall be so laid out that they will tend to preserve the natural scenic beauty
of the Village and its environs.
   C.   Land Subject to Flooding: Land subject to flooding and land deemed by
the reviewing authorities to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for
residential occupancy, nor for such other uses as may increase danger to
health, life or aggravate the flood hazard. But such land within the plat shall
be set aside for such uses as shall not be endangered by periodic or occasional
inundation, shall not produce unsatisfactory living conditions, shall not
reduce the ability of the flood plain to retain flood waters and shall be in
conformity with the flood plain provisions of the Zoning Title 1 . (Ord. 90-03,
7-25-90)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 8, Chapter 8 of this Code.
9-3-2: STREETS:
   A.   Layout: The layout of streets in a subdivision plan shall conform to
existing regulations and policies and shall be based on thorough consideration
of:
      1.   Topography and drainage;
      2.   Public convenience and safety;
      3.   The existing street pattern;
      4.   The future circulation needs of nearby lands; and
      5.   The proposed uses of the land being subdivided.
   B.   Rights of Way: Street right-of-way widths shall be designated by the
major thoroughfare plan and/or Official Plan of the Village. In all other
instances the following table shall apply:
State highways with route numbers    120'
State highways without route numbers 100'
Major County highways*               100'
Other County highways*               80'
Major Township highways              80'
Other Township highways              80'
Collector streets                    80'
Minor streets                        60' with a 10' easement on either side for
                                     utility and ditch back-slope purposes.
 
*Master County Map on file in the office of the County Superintendent of
Highways.
   C.   Collector and Minor Streets: Collector streets shall be Village streets
designed to be main thoroughfares from one section of the Village to another.
Minor streets shall be so designed as to discourage high-speed or through
traffic.
   D.   Boundary Streets: Streets shall not be laid out on the boundary of a
subdivision. Exceptions to this may be permitted where the Plat Officer finds
that such streets are desirable for further expansion or where such streets
will conform to the existing street system.
   E.   Intersections:
      1.   Street intersections with thoroughfares shall be limited to not more
than one per quarter mile unless topographic and physical conditions require a
lesser distance. Street intersections shall be at right angles as may be
permitted by the plat officer. Where unusual conditions exist, the plat officer
may permit intersections of less than ninety degrees (90°) but not less than
sixty degrees (60°).
      2.   In all cases street intersections and junctions shall be laid out so
as to facilitate the safe flow of traffic. In no case shall two (2) junctions
be offset less than one hundred twenty five feet (125').
   F.   Cul-De-Sacs:
      1.   If the cul-de-sac is drained by open ditches, the right of way shall
be one hundred forty feet (140') in diameter with a ten foot (10') utility
easement along each front lot line. If storm sewers are used for drainage, the
right of way may be reduced to one hundred twenty feet (120') with a twenty
foot (20') utility easement along the front lot line.
   G.   Marginal Access Streets: Wherever a subdivision borders on or contains
the right of way of a limited access street, highway or thoroughfare, a
railroad or a utility right of way, a street may be required approximately
parallel to and on either side of such right of way for a distance suitable to
service such uses as front thereon. (Ord. 90-O-03, 7-25-1990)
   H.   Location Of Sewer And Water Mains:
      1.   No public sewer or water mains shall be located in back yard or side
yard easements, except where no public or private street, alley or right of way
exists where any public sanitary sewer or water main of the village is now or
may in the future be available, as defined herein, and the location is approved
by the village engineer. In such cases, an easement in favor of the village
must be provided, which shall be subject to the approval of the corporate
authorities.
      2.   A public sewer or water main shall be considered "available", as
used herein, if it is located less than two hundred fifty feet (250') from a
single-family residence property or a commercial establishment of less than one
thousand five hundred (1,500) gallons usage per day, or less than one thousand
feet (1,000') from a commercial establishment over one thousand five hundred
(1,500) gallons usage per day, a multi-family dwelling, or a new subdivision.
      3.   In the event that a property owner elects to voluntarily extend an
existing public sewer or water main to serve his property, the owner shall be
required as a condition of approval of such work, to extend the main from its
existing location, all the way to the far side of the subject property, so as
to provide accessibility to the next adjacent property. Upon application of the
person, firm or corporation extending any public utility as provided in this
subsection H3, the corporate authority may vary the requirement of extending
the utility to the extreme boundaries of the property if and only if each of
the following conditions are present:
         a.   The real property to be served is residentially zoned and is
located within, or at the extreme boundary of a series of contiguous
residentially zoned parcels, lots or tracts; and
         b.   The public utility to be extended is available at each extreme
end of the said contiguous parcels; and
         c.   The village master plan for utilities extension does not
contemplate extension of the particular public utility from the one extreme end
of the contiguous parcels, to the other; and
         d.   No subdivision can be made of the property to which the public
utility is being extended; and
         e.   The village engineer, using reasonable engineering judgment,
finds that requiring extension of the public utility to the extreme boundary of
the subject property would serve no reasonable village purpose and will not
further the master utility plan of the village. (Ord. 2004-O-05, 5-26-2004)
   I.   Reserve Strips: Reserve ("spite" or "devil") strips controlling access
to streets are not permitted. Streets roughly paralleling the subdivision
boundary shall be located not less than one lot depth from said boundary. All
streets intended to provide the subdivision with future means of ingress and
egress shall extend to the subdivision boundary. (Ord. 90-O-03, 7-25-1990)
   J.   Private Streets:
      1.   Private streets are not favored and will generally not be permitted
except: a) in cases where a condominium ownership or similar common ownership
arrangements are involved, or b) where a peculiarly shaped and relatively small
area is involved in which the regular pattern of public streets would create a
hardship upon the developer.
      2.   Private streets within nonresidential subdivisions and developments
may be approved by action of the village board where the public interest is
best served thereby and where the provisions of subsection J2a through J2f of
this section has been satisfied. Unless specifically waived by action of the
village board, private streets must be constructed to the same design standards
as public streets or as otherwise provided for in this title.
         a.   There shall be a finding by the village board that the unusual
shape, size or circumstances of the property or its ownership would create a
hardship upon the developer if required to develop regular public streets in
the development or subdivision, and the public interest is best served by
permitting private streets in the development or subdivision.
         b.   There shall be adequate provisions made for the perpetual care
and maintenance of the private street, including the removal of snow and ice
accumulations.
         c.   There shall be provisions made to enable the village to make
demand upon the owners of the properties served by the private street to
provide care and maintenance to the satisfaction of the village, and, if such
care and maintenance is not provided as demanded, to permit the village, in its
sole discretion, to enter upon the private street and provide such care and
maintenance at the expense of the owners of the said properties.
         d.   There shall be provisions made to enable the village to enforce
its claims for payment of its expenditures for such care and maintenance by the
properties served by the private street by legal action, including, but not
limited to, the right to impose superior liens upon the said properties.
         e.   There shall be common ownership of the private street right of
way by all entities benefited thereby, or an easement of record running with
the land for the benefit of all properties served by the private street. The
ownership or easement documents shall assure that all such owners or easement
documents shall be legally obligated, severally and jointly, to pay the costs
of care and maintenance of the private street.
         f.   There shall be included in the care and maintenance expenses of
the private street, provisions for adequate liability insurance to cover any
liability which might be imposed upon the village in connection with the
private street. (Ord. 92-O-01, 1-29-1992)
      3.   In all cases where private streets are approved in accordance with
the above standards, adequate provision shall be made for location of public
utilities in properly designated easements within the private street. (Ord.
2004-O-05, 5-26-2004)
   K.   Streetlights: A system of streetlights on all public streets within the
subdivision shall be required to provide a standard streetlight at all
intersections, cul-de-sacs, or as the village may otherwise direct. (Ord. 90-O-
03, 7-25-1990)
   L.   Parkway Trees And Landscaping: Street trees and other landscaping shall
be installed in all subdivisions in accordance with the requirements of
chapters 5 and 6 of this title. Wherever sodding of ditches and other areas is
not required parkways shall be graded and seeded to provide a turf crop. (Ord.
90-O-19, 11-28-1990)
9-3-3: BLOCKS:
   A.   Design: The length, width and shape of blocks shall be determined with
due regard for the following:
      1.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the types of use contemplated;
      2.   Zoning requirements as to lot size and dimensions;
      3.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic; and
      4.   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   B.   Length: No block shall exceed one thousand eight hundred feet (1,800')
in length except where required by unusual topographic conditions, nor shall
they be less than six hundred feet (600') in length.
   C.   Pedestrian Or Bicycle Ways: Where blocks exceed one thousand feet
(1,000') in length or where orientation or pedestrian circulation requirements
indicate, pedestrian or bicycle ways may be required. Pedestrian or bicycle
ways shall not be less than ten feet (10') in width. (Ord. 90-O-03, 7-25-1990)
9-3-4: LOTS:
   A.   Configuration Of Lots: The lot size, width, depth, shape and
orientation shall be appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for
the type of development and use contemplated. Due regard shall be shown for all
natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic spots, or similar
conditions which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and value to the
proposed development.
   B.   Conformance With Zoning Regulations: Width and area of lots shall
conform to or exceed the lot width and area requirements set forth in the
zoning ordinance of the village (title 8 of this code) or that of the
appropriate county in the unincorporated areas beyond the village limits,
except that subdivisions contiguous to the village shall conform to all
applicable requirements of the village zoning ordinance. Corner lots shall be
sufficiently larger than interior lots to allow maintenance of building lines
on both sides fronting on a street.
   C.   Nonresidential Lots: Width, area and depth of lots in an industrial or
business subdivision shall be as recommended by the plan commission and
approved by the board of trustees.
   D.   Adequate Building Site Required: Lots abutting a watercourse,
drainageway, channel or stream shall have additional minimum width and depth as
required to provide an adequate building site and afford the minimum usable
area required in the zoning ordinance (title 8 of this code) for front, rear,
and side yards, as recommended by the plan commission.
   E.   Driveway Location: Lots shall be arranged to provide for a minimum of
driveway openings on primary and secondary streets. Driveway locations and
corner lots shall be indicated on the final plat and the location shown shall
appear as a covenant running with that lot.
   F.   Frontage:
      1.   All lots shall front directly on a minor or collector street. Lots
adjoining state highways, expressways, and thoroughfares shall be provided with
marginal access streets or shall front on a local street.
      2.   Double frontage lots are not permitted, except where lots back upon
a thoroughfare and in such instances, vehicular and pedestrian access between
the lots and the thoroughfare is prohibited.
   G.   Lot Lines: Side lines of lots shall be at right angles or radial to the
street line or substantially so and along curvilinear street lines. No lot
shall have a frontage at the street or a width at the rear lot line less than
the sum of required side yards as provided in the zoning title.
   H.   Deep Lots: Lots abutting an expressway or major thoroughfare, a
railroad, utility right of way, or other inharmonious use shall have width or
depth of twenty feet (20') in excess of the typical interior lot in the same
subdivision. Such twenty feet (20') shall be in excess of required yard. A
planting screen easement, across which there shall be no right of access may be
required on such deep lots.
   I.   Topography: The topography shall be preserved wherever possible in its
natural state by minimizing grade changes and the like. Topography shall not
increase the discharge rate of storm water onto neighboring properties
consistent with storm water requirements of this title.
   J.   Preservation Of Landscape: The landscape shall be preserved in its
natural state, insofar as practicable, by minimizing tree and soil removal, so
that the resulting development will be in keeping with the general appearance
of neighboring developed areas and will not adversely affect the ecology of the
area. Prior to any removal of trees the developer must secure written
permission from the village board. (Ord. 90-O-03, 7-25-1990)
   K.   Utility Services: Electric and telephone lines shall be underground.
Any utility installations remaining aboveground shall be located so as to have
harmonious relation to neighboring properties and the site. The proposed method
of sanitary sewage disposal for all buildings shall be indicated, and shall be
in conformance with the provisions of this code. (Ord. 90-O-03, 7-25-1990; amd.
Ord. 2004-O-05, 5-26-2004)
   L.   Noise Abatement: On property located along expressways, major arterial
streets, railroads and other nonresidential land uses, noise abatement berms or
equivalent natural materials of sufficient size and/or quantities to provide
the desired noise abatement shall be located on the property adjacent to said
expressways and the like.
   M.   Floodplains: All floodplain land shall be preserved in its natural
state or as farmland and no subdivision in the floodplain shall be permitted.
(Ord. 90-O-03, 7-25-1990)
9-3-5: EASEMENTS:
Easements shall be in conformity with the requirements of title 8 of this code.
(Ord. 90-O-19, 11-28-1990)
9-3-6: LANDSCAPING:
Landscaping shall be in conformity with the requirements of title 8 of this
code. (Ord. 90-O-19, 11-28-1990)
CHAPTER 4
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose
9-4-2: Monuments
9-4-3: Improvements Required
9-4-4: Guarantees of Performance
9-4-5: Inspection of Improvements
9-4-6: "As Built" Plans
9-4-7: Fees
9-4-1: PURPOSE:
It is deemed necessary and essential to require and control the provision and
installation of improvements when property is subdivided and developed in order
to:
   A.   Ensure conformity to the statutes governing the subdivision of land in
the State;
   B.   Cause the installation of the utilities and public service facilities
necessary to serve the property developed;
   C.   Provide for the current financing of said facilities;
   D.   Spread the costs of required improvements upon the property benefitted;
   E.   Prevent the dissipation or the improper use of public funds in
providing these improvements or maintaining faulty installation; and/or
   F.   Protect the living standards, public safety, and common welfare of
residents within and without the subdivision. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-4-2: MONUMENTS:
   A.   Preservation of Existing Monuments: All U.S., State, County or other
official bench marks, monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the
subdivision shall be preserved. When a proposed improvement in a subdivision
makes necessary the moving of bench marks, monuments or stations, the authority
having jurisdiction shall be notified and given sufficient time to take
appropriate action.
   B.   Placement of New Monuments: Permanent monuments shall be erected at all
street corners and all points where street lines intersect the exterior lines
of the subdivision and at all lot corners, block corners, angles in the streets
or lot lines, and points of beginning and ends of curves.
   C.   Materials: Permanent monuments shall be of galvanized iron pipe not
less than three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter and not less than twenty four
inches (24") in length, or of concrete not less than four inches (4") in
diameter and not less than twenty four inches (24") in length. In no case shall
thin-wall pipe or electrical conduit be permitted. If concrete is used, an iron
bar one-half inch (1/2") in diameter and twenty four inches (24") in length
shall be set in the concrete to accurately locate the corner. (Ord. 90-03, 7-
25-90)
9-4-3: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
   A.   Streets:
      1.   Unless otherwise specified, the type, design and construction of
streets shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section
9-4A-6-1 of this Title.
      2.   Street profile plans and cross sections and street lighting plans
for all subdivision streets shall be prepared by an engineer and the engineer,
as agent for the subdivider, or his contractor, shall be responsible for
establishing the proper lines and grades for all work. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
      3.   At least one street of full width, including private streets within
nonresidential developments or subdivisions, shall be provided to furnish the
subdivision or development with access to an existing improved public street.
Said access street shall be improved by the subdivider or developer in
accordance with the standards appropriate to its function, whether or not it
lies partly or entirely outside the subdivision or development. (Ord. 92-01, 1-
29-92)
   B.   Storm Drainage:
      1.   The storm drainage improvements shall conform to the system designed
and established by the engineer and approved by the Village Engineer.
Computations shall be required for the entire watershed or drainage basin of
which the subdivision is a part.
      2.   In residential subdivisions containing lots less than forty thousand
(40,000) square feet in area, underground storm sewer systems will be required.
      3.   Special consideration shall be given to the avoidance of problems
which may arise from storm water runoff onto adjacent properties. All storm
drainage shall be conducted and/or connected to an outfall approved by the
Village Engineer.
      4.   In all Office District subdivisions underground storm sewer systems
shall be required.
   C.   Culverts and Bridges: Adequate drainage structures shall be provided.
The design, installation, and construction of drainage structures shall comply
with Section
9-4A-6-2 of this Title.
   D.   Curbs and Gutter: In all subdivisions where underground storm drainage
systems are required or proposed, curbs and gutters shall be provided.
   E.   Street Signs: Signs giving names of streets shall be erected at all
street intersections. Signs shall meet the minimum requirements for similar
signs and posts as shown and set forth in the "Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices for Streets and Highways" as prepared and published by the
Department of Transportation, State of Illinois.
   F.   Traffic Control Signs: Signs for controlling the movement of traffic
shall be erected as required by the Village Engineer, or as designated in
subdivision plans. Signs shall meet the requirements of the "Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices".
   G.   Water Supply: In any subdivision in which the Health Officer finds that
individual private water supply systems would create health problems, a central
water supply system shall be required. This type of subdivision as well as the
ones listed herein shall be provided with a water supply and a distribution
system.
      1.   Any subdivision required to have a central water supply and
distribution system and lying within the service area of an existing
governmental agency which is providing water service, shall consider such
governmental agency as a potential source of water. The Plat Officer shall have
full authority to inquire into all matters relating to the utilization of all
existing developed sources of water. Where the Plat Officer finds that an
existing developed source of water cannot reasonably be used, a separate source
of water may be developed.
      2.   Where central water systems cannot be provided, individual private
water systems may be permitted, provided such water systems meet all
requirements of the Lake County Health Department.
   H.   Planting Screens: The subdivider shall plant, install, construct or
otherwise provide fences, planting strips, or buffers along lot lines which
adjoin any existing or planned commercial or industrial area, and shall enclose
any hazard which exists or which the plat reviewing authorities find will
result from the development of the subdivision. The Village Plan Commission
shall determine whether the fences, plant strips, buffers, or enclosures are
adequate.
   I.   Office Development: In all Office District subdivisions, all uses shall
be served by sanitary sewer facilities and a community water system approved by
the Village Engineer, the Lake County Public Works Department, and the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-4-4: GUARANTEES OF PERFORMANCE:
In order to provide for the orderly growth of the Village and to further
provide for the orderly development of land and the installation of all
required improvements in newly developed areas, no plat of a proposed
subdivision shall be given final approval, or permit issued to construct any
other improvements as provided for in Section
9-1-4 of this Title, until the requirements of this Section have been met.
Before approval of a final plat, or approval or issuance of a permit to
construct any development improvements, a performance bond, acceptable
irrevocable letter of credit, or other guarantee acceptable to the Village must
be provided as set forth hereunder: (Ord. 92-01, 1-29-92)
   A.   Amount: The amount of the guarantee shall be equal to one hundred fifty
percent (150%) of the estimated cost of construction of the required
improvements as approved by the Village Engineer.
   B.   Time Limit: All guarantees shall run to the Village and shall require
performance of work to be completed within eighteen (18) months from the date
of final plat approval. Letters of credit or cash deposit guarantees shall not
expire until at least ninety (90) days after date of required performance
completion.
   C.   Release: Release of portions of the required performance bond is
expressly prohibited, but if the guarantee is in the form of a cash deposit or
of a letter of credit, the amount of the guarantee may be reduced from time to
time upon approval of the Village Engineer in a sum equal to ninety percent
(90%) of the original estimated value of work which has been completed,
approved, fully paid for, and accepted by the Village. No guarantee shall be
released until the work has been finally approved and accepted by the Village
and a two (2) year guarantee submitted as hereinafter provided in subsections E
and F. Separate guarantees for different kinds of improvements shall be
minimized.
   D.   Bond Company: The bonding company, bank, financial institution or
escrowee utilized shall meet with the approval of the Village.
   E.   Two Year Guarantee: After the work has been completed and accepted and
approved by the corporate authorities, the subdivider and the owner shall
guarantee said public improvements against defects in materials and workmanship
for a period of two (2) years from the date of the acceptance of said public
improvements by the Village. The owner and subdivider agree to repair or
replace any of said public improvements which, during said two (2) year period
after acceptance shall become damaged or deficient due to defective materials
or workmanship and to maintain said public improvements in a good and safe
state of repair, ordinary wear and tear excepted, for said two (2) year period
after acceptance.
   F.   Acceptance of Improvements, Two Year Guarantee: Upon certification to
the Village Board by the Village Engineer that all of said improvements have
been completed and have been approved by him and when all of the costs of
construction of said improvements and all engineering costs including the
Village's engineering inspection fees have been paid, the Village Board shall
thereupon accept said public improvements; provided however, that the
subdivider shall first post a guarantee in a form acceptable to the Village in
an amount not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the cost of the construction of
public improvements being accepted to assure performance of the two (2) year
guarantee of maintenance and replacement of defective improvements hereinabove
required in subsection E. Said two year (2) guarantee shall be in similar form
to the original guarantee, and letters of credit or cash deposit guarantees
shall not expire until ninety (90) days after the two (2) year guarantee
period.
   G.   Release of Guarantees: When the said improvements have been accepted
and approved and the two (2) year guarantee posted as hereinabove provided, the
guarantee of performance hereinabove required shall be released by the
corporate authorities. When the two (2) year guarantee period has expired and
when all obligations under the two (2) year guarantee have been satisfied, the
subdivider shall be entitled to release thereof by the corporate authorities.
   H.   Default: If the improvements are not completed within the required
time, the corporate authorities of the Village may use the performance bond,
letter of credit, or other guarantee or any portion thereof, to complete
construction of the improvements. In addition thereto or in lieu thereof, the
corporate authorities may deem such failure to complete the improvements within
the required time sufficient cause for the revocation and cancellation of the
Village's approval of said plan of subdivision or any part thereof. Default is
failure to install herein required improvements or to maintain or replace the
same as required in subsection F.
      1.   Performance Bond: In the event of default, when the guarantee is in
the form of a performance bond, the corporate authorities shall seek completion
of the improvements or two (2) year maintenance and replacement, as the case
may be, in the manner provided in said bond.
      2.   Letter of Credit: In the event of default, when the guarantee is in
the form of a letter of credit, the corporate authorities shall obtain from the
Village Engineer, an estimate of the cost of completion of the improvements, or
of the two (2) year maintenance and replacement, as the case may be, and
immediately draw against said letter of credit, a sight draft in a sum equal to
one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the said cost estimate. Said sum shall be
deposited in a special fund and used only to pay the cost of curing said
default including any engineering and attorney's fees. When all costs of curing
said default have been paid, and within one year after drawing said funds, the
balance thereof, if any, shall be returned to the subdivider. (Ord. 90-03, 7-
25-90)
   I.   Approval with Conditions: Notwithstanding the provisions of this
subsection, the Village Board may waive the requirements herein that bond or
other security be posted prior to final approval if the following conditions
are met:
      1.   The final plat shall bear a legend which clearly provides that no
building permits may be issued for, nor any construction allowed upon any lot
in the subdivision unless there shall first have been provided to and approved
by the Village, an adequate security in the form provided in this Section to
assure that all public improvements necessary for the use and occupancy of the
lot will be installed and completed.
      2.   That a deed conveying all of the public interest or open space areas
of the subdivision is delivered to the Village.
      3.   That the developer meets such other conditions that the Village
Board determines to be necessary to assure that the approval of the final plat
shall not create a condition under which the developer can avoid any of its
obligation to complete all of the improvements required to be made by the
developer in the subdivision.
      4.   No lots shall be sold by the developer before providing security in
the form required in this Section unless the proposed buyer shall first be
provided with a notice that no building permits will be issued and no
construction allowed until such security is provided. Developer shall file a
copy of such notice signed by buyer with the Village before delivering a deed.
      5.   The provisions of this subsection shall apply only to residential
subdivisions of one hundred (100) acres or more in which at least thirty five
(35) acres thereof are being conveyed to the Village as per open space areas as
referred to in subsection I2 of this Section. (Ord. 93-19, 4-21-93)
9-4-5: INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Required: All required land improvements to be installed under the
provisions of this Title shall be inspected at the subdivider's expense. The
Engineer, at the expense of the subdivider, shall provide an inspector on the
job during the process of construction. When the work has been completed, the
Engineer shall certify that the improvements comply in all respects with the
approved plans and specifications, and with the requirements of this Title. All
required land improvements to be installed under the provisions of this Title
shall be inspected at the subdivider's expense. All work shall also be at all
times subject to inspection by the Village Road Commissioner, the Health
Officer, the Village Engineer and other Village officials and their
representatives.
   B.   Notification to Village Officials: Before starting the construction of
any improvements, the subdivider shall ascertain from the Village Road
Commissioner, Health Officer and the Village Engineer what inspections are
required and the amount of notification desired in each case, and shall comply
with all their rules, regulations, and instructions pertaining to such required
inspections.
   C.   Reports: Any inspection which requires that the Village Road
Commissioner, the Health Officer or the Village Engineer be present shall be
made by that official or his agent and reported in written form, and one copy
shall be furnished to the Engineer or other agent of the subdivider.
   D.   Responsibility of Subdivider: Regardless of contracts, agreements or
inspections performed, final responsibility for the installation of all
improvements, in accordance with the applicable standards, rests with the
subdivider.
   E.   Approval and Acceptance:
      1.   Street; Drainage Improvements: When street, water, sewer and
drainage improvements and all appurtenances thereto, based on approved plans,
have been constructed or installed and passed all inspections, the corporate
authorities shall provide the developer with a letter of approval, completion,
and acceptance by the Village subject to the requirements of subsection
9-4-4F of this Chapter.
      2.   Health and Sanitation Facilities: When health and sanitary
facilities, based on approved plans, have passed all inspections, the Health
Officer shall provide the developer with a letter of approval and completion.
Such letter shall not constitute acceptance by the public; it shall be the
responsibility for the agency intending to maintain and operate the facility to
provide the developer with a letter of acceptance subject to the requirements
of subsection
9-4-4F of this Chapter.
      3.   Water and Sewer Improvements: When any required sewer or water
improvement is not intended for public ownership, the appropriate inspecting
agency shall provide the developer with a letter of approval and completion.
Such letter shall not constitute acceptance by the public but shall permit the
owner to operate and maintain the facility. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-4-6: "AS BUILT" PLANS:
After completion of all public improvements and prior to final acceptance of
said improvements, the subdivider shall make, or cause to be made, "as-built"
plans showing the actual location of all valves, manholes, stubs, sewer and
water mains, and other improvements. This plan shall be in black (India) ink on
tracing cloth, or materials of equal permanence and durability, and shall bear
the seal and signature of the engineer. The presentation of this plan shall be
a condition of final acceptance of the improvements and release of the surety
bond assuring their completion. This plan or a reproducible (intermediate)
copy, shall become the property of the Village. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-4-7: FEES:
The subdivider shall pay to the Village such fees as defray the cost of
inspections and whatever other engineering services which may be involved in
the installation of the improvements, and such attorney's fees as may be
involved in the approval and acceptance of improvements, release of guarantees,
or enforcement of guarantees 1 . (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  9-2-4 of this Title.
ARTICLE A. CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS AND SPECIFICATIONS
SECTION:
9-4A-1: Qualifications of Contractors
9-4A-2: Time of Construction
9-4A-3: Sequence of Construction
9-4A-4: Grading
9-4A-5: Debris Removal
9-4A-6: Engineering Design Specifications
9-4A-6-1: Streets
9-4A-6-2: Storm Drainage
9-4A-6-3: Storm Water Detention
9-4A-6-4: Water Wells
9-4A-6-5: Sewage Disposal Facilities
9-4A-6-6: Parking Lots and Driveways in Nonresidential Developments and
Subdivisions
9-4A-1: QUALIFICATIONS OF CONTRACTORS:
The developer shall file with the Village a list of all contractors and
subcontractors who are to participate in the construction of public
improvements. Such contractors and subcontractors shall be subject to
disqualification by reason of faulty performance of prior construction work
done in the Village. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-4A-2: TIME OF CONSTRUCTION:
All improvements required herein shall be installed after recording of the
final plat and must be completed within eighteen (18) months after approval of
the final plat. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-4A-3: SEQUENCE OF CONSTRUCTION:
All underground utilities, sanitary sewers, and storm sewers installed in
streets, alleys, service roads, or
highways shall be constructed or installed prior to the surfacing of such
streets. Service connections to such underground utilities and sewers shall be
extended to the property line of each lot so as to obviate disturbing the
surface improvements in such public ways when service connections are later
made. Where underground utilities are located in the parkway adjacent to the
paved roadway, service connections to properties across such road shall only be
made by drilling under the pavement in such a way that surfacing is not
disturbed or weakened. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-4A-4: GRADING:
Where it is proposed to alter ground elevations more than two feet (2'),
proposed as well as existing contours shall be shown on the grading or on the
contour map. Where topsoil is removed during the course of construction, that
area shall be recovered with topsoil to a depth of at least four inches (4").
All exposed areas shall be reseeded or sodded to prevent erosion. Seeding and
sodding shall conform to the specifications as set forth in Section
9-4A-6 of this Chapter. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-4A-5: DEBRIS REMOVAL:
The subdivider shall clean and maintain all public ways, sewers and drains free
from debris and trash or other extraneous material prior to acceptance and at
such other times during construction as the Village Road Commissioner or
Village Engineer may deem necessary to prevent the creation of a public
nuisance. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-4A-6: ENGINEERING DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS:
9-4A-6-1: STREETS:
The improvements required by this Title shall be in accordance with the
criteria set forth hereunder, and unless otherwise specified, shall be
constructed in accordance with the provisions of the current "Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction" adopted by the Department of
Transportation, Division of Highways of the State. The standards set forth
herein are the minimum acceptable and are not intended to prevent the
subdivider from constructing a higher type street structure.
   A.   Street Grades:
      1.   The maximum grades of collector streets shall not exceed six percent
(6%).
      2.   The maximum grades for minor streets shall not exceed eight percent
(8%).
      3.   In no case shall the grade of any street be less than five- tenths
of one percent (0.5%).
   B.   Vertical Alignment:
      1.   The vertical curves of collector and larger streets shall not be
less than two hundred feed (200') in length.
      2.   The vertical curves for minor streets shall be not less than one
hundred feet (100') in length.
      3.   Exception to the above minimums may be made at intersections where
the length of vertical curves shall be no less than fifty feet (50').
      4.   In no case shall stopping sight distance be less than two hundred
seventy five feet (275'). (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
   C.   Horizontal Alignment:
      1.   For public streets, the minimum radius of center line horizontal
curvature shall be as follows: collector street, three hundred feet (300');
minor street, one hundred feet (100'). For private streets, the minimum
interior back of curb radius shall be fifty feet (50') minimum, and shall be
designed to permit a fifty foot (50') semi-trailer combination vehicle to pass
through the curve while maintaining an unobstructed twelve foot (12') lane
width in the opposite direction.
      2.   Street jogs with center line offsets of less than one hundred twenty
five feet (125') shall be avoided.
      3.   Angles on the center line of a street are not permitted.
      4.   For public streets, reverse curves are allowed; provided, a minimum
of one hundred feet (100') of tangent is introduced between the curves. For
private streets, reverse curves without a tangent are allowed.
      5.   For minor public streets in nonresidential developments
subdivisions, the minimum radius of center line horizontal curvature shall be
two hundred feet (200'). (Ord. 92-01, 1-29-92)
   D.   Intersection Radii: Radii at intersections shall not be less than
twenty five feet (25') measured to the edge of the street surfacing. (Ord. 73-
10, 10-4-73)
   E.   Surface Width: Public residential street shall be improved to the
following pavement widths according to classification:
 
Collector street 24 feet
Minor street     20 feet
Cul-de-sac       22 feet
 
For minor streets in all nonresidential developments or subdivisions, the back-
to-back curb width shall be thirty four feet (34'), and on cul-de-sacs, twenty
seven feet (27'). For private streets in nonresidential developments and
subdivisions, the back-to-back of curb width shall be thirty feet (30').
   F.   Surface Crown: The surface of all roadways shall have a uniform slope
from the center line to the edge of 0.02 feet per foot. Private streets in
nonresidential developments and subdivisions without a crown shall have a cross
pavement slope from side to side of 0.02 feet per foot.
   G.   Surface Material: Residential streets shall be improved with a minimum
of two inch (2") bituminous concrete binder course, Class I, plant mix followed
at a later date with a one inch (1") thick bituminous concrete surface course,
Class I, Type 2, Mixture D. All minor streets and private streets in all
nonresidential developments and subdivisions, shall be improved with a minimum
two and one half inch (21/2") thick bituminous concrete binder course, Class I,
followed at a later date by one and one-half inches (11/2") thick bituminous
concrete surface course, Class I.
   H.   Sub-Base and Base Course Materials:
      1.   Residential streets shall have a sub-base course material conforming
to gradation CA-8, crushed gravel or crushed stone, which shall be placed to a
minimum compacted thickness of seven inches (7") and to a width one foot (1')
wider than either the edge of pavement where shoulders are used or the back of
curb on each side; and shall have a base course material conforming to
gradation CA-6 (grade 8), which shall be placed a minimum compacted thickness
of seven inches (7") between curb faces or extended one foot (1') past the edge
of the pavement where shoulders are used.
      2.   In no instance will sub-base course material be placed on a soft
subgrade. If a soft subgrade is encountered, it shall be removed to stable
material. Backfill material will consist of properly compacted earthen material
with an adequate supporting value or of granular material.
      3.   For minor streets and private streets in all nonresidential
developments or subdivisions, streets shall have a sub-base course material
conforming to gradation CA-8 crushed gravel or crushed stone, which shall be
placed a minimum compacted thickness of six inches (6") and to a width one foot
(1') wider than the back of the curb on each side and shall have a base course
material conforming to gradation CA-6 (grade 8 or 9), which shall be placed a
minimum compacted thickness of nine inches (9") between curb faces. (Ord. 92-
01, 1-29-92)
   I.   Shoulders: Earthen shoulders will be constructed on each side and
adjacent to the roadway surface. Shoulder widths to each side shall be eight
feet (8') on collector streets and four feet (4') on minor streets. All
shoulders shall slope away from the surface edge at a rate of three-fourths
inch (3/4") per foot. For all streets with curb and gutter and storm sewer,
earthen shoulders shall not be required. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
   J.   Cul-De-Sacs: For all street cul-de-sacs, the minimum radius for the
outside edge of pavement shall be fifty feet (50'). Center islands are required
on all residential area cul-de- sacs. Center islands are not permitted on
nonresidential area cul-de-sacs. The pavement radius at the throat of each cul-
de- sac shall be fifty feet (50'). The pavement in residential cul-de-sacs
shall be twenty two feet (22') in width. The pavement in nonresidential cul-de-
sacs shall be twenty seven feet (27') back-to-back of curb in width.
   K.   Curbs: Type B-6 curbs shall be required for all streets in all
nonresidential developments and subdivisions. Curbs in residential subdivisions
shall be Type M-4.12. A drain system shall be installed continuous with the
curb with discharge to storm water manholes. The drain system shall consist of
pipe, washed stone and filter fabric. When the storm sewer also serves as the
underdrain for a roadway, it shall be located along the low point of the
pavement or curb line; the storm sewer shall be open jointed and filter fabric
shall be provided along the trench bottom and walls and extend up to one foot
(1') above the top of the storm sewer pipe. The storm sewer pipe shall be
bedded with number 6 or 8 washed stone. (Ord. 92-01, 1-24-92)
   L.   Street Lights: A system of street lights on all public streets within
the subdivision shall be required as set forth in subsection
9-3-2K. The Village Engineer shall from time to time establish and the Village
shall approve standards for street lighting fixtures and controls. (Ord. 90-03,
7-25-90)
9-4A-6-2: STORM DRAINAGE:
   A.   Design Storm Criteria: All storm water runoff shall be calculated by
means of the Rational Method. Drainage structures for fifty (50) acres or less
in size shall be designed to accommodate a five (5) year storm frequency for a
storm duration equal to the time of concentration, but not less than ten (10)
minutes. For watersheds over fifty (50) acres in size, the design storm
frequency shall be ten (10) years.
   B.   Ditches:
      1.   Ditches shall be constructed on both sides of the roadway outside of
the shoulder line. Ditches shall have a minimum depth of two feet (2') below
the edge of the roadway surface with maximum backslopes of four to one (4:1) on
the roadway side and two to one (2:1) on the property side.
      2.   Maximum ditch gradient without erosion protection shall be two
percent (2%). The ditch shall be protected from erosion by means of sodding,
ditch paving, ditch checks, storm sewers or combinations thereof as deemed
necessary.
      3.   Minimum ditch gradient shall be three tenths of one percent (0.3%).
If this gradient cannot be maintained, the ditches shall be paved or storm
sewers installed.
      4.   Continuous with the bottom of the ditch shall be installed an
underdrain system with rigid perforated piping, washed stone envelope and
filter fabric. At intervals of not less than two hundred feet (200') shall be
installed a washed stone and filter fabric envelope connecting the CA-8 sub-
base and under drain system.
   C.   Culverts:
      1.   Minimum culvert sizes shall be fifteen inches (15") for driveways
and roadway crossings. At locations where culverts cross roadways, a minimum
distance of sixteen inches (16") will be maintained between the top of the pipe
and the roadway surface.
      2.   All roadway culverts shall extend a sufficient distance beyond the
shoulder line so as to intersect the backslope at the culvert spring line.
Flared end sections shall be provided on all roadway culverts.
      3.   Prior to acceptance of the street improvement or the issuance of any
building permits, the subdivider will furnish the Village an overall map of the
subdivision showing the proper size culvert for each lot.
   D.   Restoration: All shoulders, backslopes and parkways within the street
right of way shall be restored by placing three inches (3") of topsoil and
seeding with a Class II mixture per the "Standard Specifications".
   E.   Flood Fringe Changes: Whenever the characteristics of the flood fringe
of an existing man-made pond or detention area denoted on any FEMA National
Flood Insurance map or report is modified, the project engineer for the
developer shall submit to the Village all plans and documents required by FEMA
for amending and revising said map or report prior to final approval by the
Village Engineer of any said changes or modifications. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-4A-6-3: STORM WATER DETENTION:
   A.   General: It is recognized that the receiving streams within the area of
the Village do not have the capacity to receive and convey the increased storm
water runoff resulting from development occurring in the area. These receiving
streams are subject to frequent flooding which results in a growing rate of
property damage.
   B.   Storage: A combination of storage and controlled release of storm water
runoff is required for all commercial developments exceeding one acre in area,
for all residential developments exceeding ten (10) acres in area and for all
residential developments between five (5) and ten (10) acres which have an
imperviousness of sixty percent (60%) or greater. However, a residential
development of ten (10) acres or less must have an adequate outlet as signified
by the Village Engineer. If the outlet is not adequate, then detention, as
determined by the Village Engineer, will be required to store that portion of
the runoff exceeding the outlet capacity.
   C.   Release Rate:
      1.   The release rate of storm water from all developments requiring
detention shall not exceed the storm water runoff rate from the area in its
natural undeveloped state.
      2.   Because of the flat conditions of the land in this area, channel
configuration cut by nature are generally unable to handle the runoff from high
intensity rainfall and results in flood plain storage or spreading of runoff
over the land areas during the larger storm periods. In order not to increase
the runoff from such areas after development, the release rate must be limited
to the carrying capacity of these natural channels. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
      3.   A maximum release rate of not greater than 0.10 cfs/acre when the
basin is at full capacity is acceptable unless the downstream channel is not
capable of handling this flow. A manual shut-off shall be provided in order to
reduce the release of storm water flow equal to zero cfs. (Ord. 90-16, 11-28-
90)
   D.   Drainage System: Drainage systems shall have adequate capacity to
bypass through the development, the flow from all upstream areas for a storm of
design frequency assuming that the land is in a fully developed state under
present zoning or zoning proposed under the Village Official Plan. The bypass
flow rate shall be computed utilizing a runoff coefficient of not less than
0.35. An allowance will be made for upstream detention when such upstream
detention and release rate has previously been approved by the Village and that
evidence of its construction can be shown.
   E.   Live Detention Storage: The live detention storage to be provided will
be calculated on the basis of the 100-year frequency rainfall as published in
Illinois State Water Survey (Bulletin 70) for this area. The detention volume
required will be that necessary to handle the runoff of a 100-year rainfall,
for any and all durations, from the fully developed drainage area tributary to
the reservoir, less that volume discharged during the same duration at the
approved release rate. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
   F.   Calculations: The line detention volume shall be sized using the most
critical 100-year storm event not to exceed forty eight (48) hours in duration,
with a release rate equal to zero cfs. One method of calculation, which will be
acceptable to the Village for the determination of the capacity of storm water
detention reservoirs is as follows:
 
Live Detention Storage (acre/feet) =
(c) (i100) (td) (0.0833)
       Maximum storage volume calculated by this equation for any and all
      duration (td) will be the required storage. The terms of the above
       equation are defined as follows:
       The intensity in inches per hour of rainfall from the Illinois State
i100 = Water Survey (Bulletin 70), Table 13, for 100-year frequency for any and
       all durations, not to exceed forty eight (48) hours in duration.
td =   The duration of the 100-year storm, which must be varied to determine
       the most critical and therefore maximum required detention.
       The coefficient of runoff for the completely developed drainage area
c =    tributary to the reservoir A coefficient 0.30 shall be used for lawn and
       landscaped areas; 0.95 for impervious areas; and 1.0 for detention
       basins and bodies of water.
      Note: i100 varies with td.
 
   G.   Freeboard: A minimum of two feet (2') of freeboard shall be provided on
all basins. (Ord. 90-16, 11-28-90)
9-4A-6-4: WATER WELLS:
Individual wells shall be located and constructed in accordance with the
requirements of the Lake County Health Department. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-4A-6-5: SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES:
Individual sewage disposal facilities shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the requirements of the Lake County Health Department. (Ord.
90-03, 7-25-90)
9-4A-6-6: PARKING LOTS AND DRIVEWAYS IN NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS AND
SUBDIVISIONS:
The improvements required by this Section shall be in accordance with the
criteria set forth hereunder, and shall be constructed in accordance with the
provisions of the then current "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction" adopted by the Department of Transportation, Division of Highways
of the State. The standards set forth herein are the minimum acceptable
standards and are not intended to prevent the developer from constructing a
higher type street structure.
   A.   Parking Lot and Driveway Grades:
      1.   The maximum pavement slope shall not exceed five percent (5%).
      2.   The minimum pavement slope shall be one percent (1%), except where
the pavement is adjacent to and sloping towards a curb.
      3.   The minimum curb slope shall be five-tenths of one percent (0.5%)
when used to provide drainage.
   B.   Surface Material: Parking lots and driveways shall be improved with a
minimum two inch (2") thick bituminous concrete binder course, Class I followed
at a later date with one inch (1") thick course bituminous concrete surface
course, Class I.
   C.   Base Course Material:
      1.   Parking lots shall have a base course material conforming to
gradation CA-6 (grade 8 or 9), which shall be placed a minimum compacted
thickness of ten inches (10") between curb faces.
      2.   Driveways shall have a base course material conforming to gradation
CA-6 (grade 8 or 9), which shall be placed a minimum compacted thickness of
fourteen inches (14") between curb faces.
      3.   In no instance will sub-base course material be placed on a soft
sub-grade. If a soft sub-grade is encountered, it shall be removed to stable
material. Backfill material will consist of earthen material with an adequate
supporting value or of granular material.
   D.   Curbs:
      1.   All parking lots and driveways shall have curbs.
      2.   All curbs shall be type B-6.12. A drain system shall be installed
continuous with the curb with discharge to storm water manholes. The drain
system shall consist of pipe, washed stone and filter fabric. When the storm
sewer is located along the low point of the pavement or curb line, it may also
serve as the underdrain for the parking lot; in this case the storm sewer shall
be open jointed and filter fabric shall be provided along the trench bottom and
walls and extending up to one foot (1') above the top of the storm sewer pipe.
The pipe shall be bedded with number 6 or 8 washed stone.
   E.   Parking Stall Dimensions:
      1.   All parking stalls shall be a minimum of eighteen feet deep by nine
feet wide (18' x 9'), except where the parking stall fronts a curb, the stall
depth then may be sixteen feet (16'). If a sidewalk abuts a curb parking stall,
then said sidewalk shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') wide.
      2.   Handicapped parking shall be provided as required by State and
Federal laws and regulations.
   F.   Parking Lot Aisle Dimensions:
      1.   All parking lot aisles shall be a minimum of twenty six feet (26')
wide for right angle parking. (Ord. 92-01, 1-29-92)
CHAPTER 5
VACATIONS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Procedure
9-5-2: Standards
9-5-3: Petition Form and Content
9-5-4: Easements
9-5-5: Bond
9-5-6: Limitations
9-5-7: Resubdivision in Lieu of Vacation
9-5-8: Cancellation of Bonded Contracts
9-5-1: PROCEDURE:
In all cases the vacation of any plat or part thereof or any public right of
way, easement or part thereof shall follow the procedure for the review of
plats established in this Title except that:
   A.   Final action shall be taken by the Village Board, and
   B.   The Plat Officer shall recommend to the Village Board a sum to be paid
by the owners of abutting properties in consideration of any public property
involved in the vacation. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-5-2: STANDARDS:
The Plat Officer and the other administrative officers shall recommend
disapproval of any petition for vacation which fails to meet the following
standards:
   A.   A vacation shall be approved which creates a condition which would not
be permitted under the standards of design set forth in this Title, unless such
vacation will at the same time correct a more serious condition which exists
contrary to the standards of this Title.
   B.   No vacation shall be approved which will result in a conflict with the
Official Plan of the Village.
   C.   No vacation shall be approved which will result in a violation of the
Village Zoning Title or other applicable ordinances or regulations, unless such
vacation will at the same time correct a more serious condition which exists
contrary to such ordinances or regulations. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-5-3: PETITION FORM AND CONTENT:
The sketch and preliminary plat of vacation shall be accompanied by a certified
statement of the assessed valuation of all properties surrounding any public
right of way to be vacated. Final petitions for vacation shall include the
following items:
   A.   Three (3) copies of the original plat certified by the Recorder to be a
true copy of same, on which is shown the portion to be vacated outlined in a
heavy line and hatched.
   B.   The following petitions, deeds, and certificates, all drafted from
models obtainable from the Plat Officer:
      1.   Deed of vacation
      2.   Petition (3 copies)
      3.   County Clerk's certificate
      4.   Resolution of the Village Board
      5.   Assessor's certificate
   C.   The petition as it is presented to the Village Board shall be
accompanied by a written recommendation from the Plat Officer. (Ord. 90-03, 7-
25-90)
9-5-4: EASEMENTS:
The vacation of any plat or part thereof, or right of way, easement or part
thereof shall not be deemed to be a vacation of the rights of any public
utility where said public utility has installed its facilities therein. All
such vacations shall be made upon the express condition that the abutting
property owner or owners grant to all public utilities, their successors and
assigns, the right of way or easement to operate, maintain, renew and
reconstruct their facilities in, over or under the public right of way or
easement vacated and such condition shall be noted on the deed or plat of
vacation and in the ordinance or resolution of vacation. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-5-5: BOND:
The Village may require the petitioner to furnish bond in an amount sufficient
to protect the Village, indemnifying it for any suit which may be filed for
damages sustained as a result of such vacation. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-5-6: LIMITATIONS:
Nothing contained herein, nor any required certificate, shall be deemed in any
way to limit the right and authority of the Village to vacate any plat or part
thereof, or any right of way or easement or part thereof where it finds that
such vacation will serve the public interest. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-5-7: RESUBDIVISION IN LIEU OF VACATION:
It shall not be necessary to vacate a plat or part thereof in order to proceed
with a resubdivision of said plat or part thereof. Resubdivision according to
the procedure and standards for subdivision required by this Title shall
automatically constitute vacation of a prior plat or part thereof, provided
that monetary remuneration shall be paid to the Village in consideration of any
excess of public property vacated over that dedicated in the resubdivision.
(Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-5-8: CANCELLATION OF BONDED CONTRACTS:
Bonded contracts for the improvement of platted streets or alleys shall be
automatically cancelled upon vacation of such platted streets. (Ord. 90-03, 7-
25-90)
CHAPTER 6
SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-6-1: Administration
9-6-2: Permits; Certificates of Occupancy
9-6-3: Variances
9-6-4: Hearings
9-6-5: Amendments
9-6-6: Enforcement
9-6-7: Penalty
9-6-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Plat Officer: The office of Plat Officer is hereby created and the
chairman of the Plan Commission is hereby designated Plat Officer of the
Village. The Plat Officer and the Plan Commission shall administer this Title.
   B.   Approval of Plats: The Plat Officer shall approve and sign all maps or
plats of subdivision in accordance with the provisions of this Title; provided,
that no map or plat of subdivision shall be approved by the Plat Officer
without the consent of a majority of the Plan Commission in quorum (the vote
and presence of the Plat Officer shall be counted as any other member of the
Plan Commission). (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
   C.   Objections to Decisions, Procedure: Within fifteen (15) days after a
sketch or plat of subdivision has been finally acted upon, the subdivider shall
file any objections which he may have in writing with the Plan Commission which
shall thereupon consider and act upon same. The Plat Officer, after said
objections have been duly considered and acted upon, shall inform the
subdivider in writing of the action taken on said objections. If the subdivider
is dissatisfied with the action taken thereon, and if the action of the Plan
Commission is not to become a recommendation submitted to the Village Board he
shall, within fifteen (15) days, request the Plat Officer, in writing, to
present the matter to the Village Board. The Plat Officer shall then refer the
matter to the Village Board at its next regular meeting and the Village Board
may approve the plat or take whatever other action it considers to be in the
public interest. The Village Board shall not approve any plat which has been
disapproved by the Plan Commission except by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the
Village Board in quorum. (Ord. 90-19, 11-28-90)
9-6-2: PERMITS, CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Building Permits: Building permits shall not be issued until the Zoning
Officer has been notified by the Plat Officer that the final plat has been
approved and recorded.
   B.   Public Utilities, Permits Required: Public utilities shall obtain
permits from the Village Board for the installation of communication, electric
power, gas or other utility services before any installation is started.
   C.   Certificates of Occupancy: Certificates of occupancy shall not be
issued until the Zoning Officer has been notified by the Plat Officer that the
required improvements have been completed and approved. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-6-3: VARIANCES:
   A.   Reasons for Variations: When the Plan Commission, in interpreting this
Title, finds that extraordinary hardship or injustice will result from strict
compliance with this Title, it may vary the terms thereof to the extent deemed
necessary and proper to grant relief, provided that the modification is due to
physical features of the site; is the least deviation from this Title which
will mitigate the hardship; is not detrimental to the public interest, and in
keeping with the general spirit and intent of the Title.
   B.   Application for Variance: Application for any modification shall be
made in writing by the subdivider at the time the preliminary plat is filed for
consideration, stating fully and clearly all facts relied upon by the
petitioner; and shall be supplemented with maps, plans, or other additional
data which may aid the Plan Commission in the analysis of the proposed project.
The plans for any development shall include such covenants, restrictions, or
other legal provisions necessary to guarantee the full achievement of the plan.
Once the terms of any modification have been agreed upon, the review of the
subdivision shall proceed as set forth in this Title. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
   C.   Granting Variances: Whenever the Plan Commission has approved or
disapproved the granting of a variance as provided in this Section, the
proposed variance and a full statement of the reasons for approval or
disapproval of the variance shall be reported in writing to the Village Board
along with the recommendations of the Plan Commission for approving or
disapproving the proposed plat as required in Chapter 2 of this Title. The
Village Board shall consider the proposed variance along with the
recommendations of the Plan Commission. The Village Board shall not approve any
variance except by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Village Board in quorum.
(Ord. 90-19, 11-28-90)
9-6-4: HEARINGS:
   A.   Procedure: Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Plan Commission in
enforcing the terms of this Title may request a hearing before the Village
Board. Requests for such hearings shall be made in writing to the Plat Officer.
Upon notification by the Plat Officer, the Village President shall schedule an
appointment for a hearing within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the
request. The petitioner shall be notified of the date, time and location of the
hearing at least three (3) days in advance.
   B.   Decision of Board of Trustees: If, upon hearing the evidence of both
the Plan Commission and the petitioner, the Board finds that the decision of
the Plan Commission is in error, the Village Board shall instruct the Plan
Commission to modify its decision. Such modification shall not conflict with
this Title and shall in no case adversely affect the orderly development of the
area. The decision of the Village Board shall be made known in writing to the
petitioner within ten (10) days after the date of the hearing. (Ord. 90-03, 7-
25-90)
9-6-5: AMENDMENTS:
Any person wishing to propose an amendment to this Title may submit his
proposal to the Plan Commission. The Plan Commission may, without a public
hearing, submit the proposed change or a modification thereof to the Village
Board for appropriate action. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-6-6: ENFORCEMENT:
All laws of the State and ordinances of the Village are made a part hereof the
same as if fully set forth herein, and all officers and employees of the
Village and specifically those herein referred to are directed to compel
compliance with such laws of the State and all the requirements of the Village.
(Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
9-6-7: PENALTY:
Whoever shall sell, or offer for sale, or lease for any time exceeding five (5)
years, any lot or block in any subdivision before complying with all the
requirements of this Title and the State statutes governing plats, shall be
subject to a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each lot or block, or
part thereof, so disposed of, offered for sale, or leased. Each day that sales
or offers to sell or lease in violation of this Title continue shall constitute
a separate offense, subject to the above penalty. (Ord. 90-03, 7-25-90)
TITLE 10
LIQUOR CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Words and Phrases Defined
10-1-4: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
10-1-5: Penalty
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Title shall be known, cited or referred to as the LIQUOR CONTROL ORDINANCE
OF GREEN OAKS, ILLINOIS.
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Title:
   A.   To establish provisions for the licensing of persons and premises
qualified to sell alcoholic beverages in the Village.
   B.   To establish regulations controlling the sale of alcoholic beverages in
the Village, and regulating the operation of premises licensed under this
Title.
   C.   To create the office of Local Liquor Control Commissioner and to define
the duties and powers of the office.
   D.   To provide for fees for licenses to sell alcoholic beverages in the
Village.
   E.   To provide for the limitation of the number of persons and premises
licensed to sell alcoholic beverages.
   F.   To promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare by
regulating the conduct of persons licensed to sell alcoholic beverages and of
persons consuming alcoholic beverages at licensed premises.
   G.   To provide penalties for the violation of any of the provisions of this
Title.
10-1-3: WORDS AND PHRASES DEFINED:
All words and phrases used in this Title and defined in the Illinois Liquor
Control Act of 1934 (235 Illinois Compiled Statutes, et seq.) shall have the
same meaning as they have in said Act unless otherwise herein defined as
follows: (Ord. 89-10, 7-26-89)
NOT-FOR-PROFIT SPONSORED RESTAURANT: A restaurant which is owned and operated
by a not-for-profit corporation which operates the restaurant for the purpose
of providing vocational, residential and social support services for mentally
retarded or developmentally disabled individuals. Pursuant to such purpose,
alcoholic liquor may be dispensed on a regular basis within buildings housing a
not-for-profit sponsored restaurant, and on a temporary basis at other
locations as may be approved by the Board of Trustees on the same premises on
which the building housing the not-for-profit sponsored restaurant is located.
(Ord. 89-20, 8-10-89)
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals actually are
served and regularly served, such space being provided with adequate and
sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and having employed
therein sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook, and serve
suitable food for its guests; provided, that the revenues of premises licensed
as a restaurant to sell alcoholic liquor shall be derived at least sixty
percent (60%) from the sale of food; and provided further, that no premises
licensed as a restaurant shall sell alcoholic liquor except to persons having
or about to have a meal. (Ord. 89-10, 7-26-89)
10-1-4: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Office Created: There is hereby created the office of local liquor
control commissioner. The village president shall be the local liquor control
commissioner and shall be vested with the duties and powers provided in the
Illinois statutes and by this title.
   B.   Compensation: The local liquor control commissioner shall be paid such
remuneration as the village board of trustees shall determine by resolution of
the village board.
   C.   Assistants: The local liquor control commissioner shall be empowered to
appoint with the advice and consent of the village board of trustees, such
assistant local liquor control commissioners as may, in his opinion, be
necessary to conduct the office and perform its duties. Such assistant local
liquor control commissioners shall be clothed with and have all of the
authority of the local liquor control commissioner while performing their
duties. (Ord. 89-10, 7-26-1989)
10-1-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this title shall be fined not
less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be held to have been
committed each day such violation shall occur or continue. (Ord. 89-10, 7-26-
1989; amd. Ord. 2001-O-05, 3-28-2001)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR LICENSES
SECTION:
10-2-1: License Required
10-2-2: Application
10-2-3: Restrictions On Licenses
10-2-4: Classes Of Licenses
10-2-5: Maximum Number Of Licenses
10-2-6: Change In Maximum Number Of Licenses Permitted
10-2-7: Term; Prorating Fee
10-2-8: License Fee
10-2-9: Disposition Of Fees
10-2-10: List Of Licenses In Force
10-2-11: Transfer Of License
10-2-12: Change Of Location
10-2-13: Revocation, Suspension, Refusal Of License
10-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the village any
alcoholic liquor without having a village retail liquor dealer's license, or in
violation of the terms of such license. (Ord. 89-10, 7-26-1989)
10-2-2: APPLICATION:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the village local liquor
control commissioner in writing, signed by the applicant, if an individual, or
by a duly authorized agent thereof, if a club or corporation. Application fee
in the amount of four hundred dollars ($400.00) shall be submitted with the
application. Application shall be verified by oath or affirmation, and shall
contain the following information and statements: (Ord. 89-20, 8-10-1989)
   A.   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation for profit, or a club,
the date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, and names
and addresses of the officers and directors, and if a five percent (5%)
interest of the stock of such corporation is owned by any one person or his
nominees, the name and address of each such person.
   B.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the date and place of his naturalization.
   C.   The character of business of the applicant.
   D.   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character.
   E.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made.
   F.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license.
   G.   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar other license on premises other than described in this application, and
the disposition of such application.
   H.   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in the laws of this state, or in this code or village ordinances.
   I.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government, has been revoked and the reasons therefor. (Ord. 89-10,
7-26-1989)
10-2-3: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES:
No such license shall be issued to or continue to be held by: (Ord. 89-O-10, 7-
26-1989)
   A.   A person who is not a resident of Lake County. (Ord. 2009-O-12, 8-26-
2009)
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community.
   C.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
   F.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   G.   A person whose license issued under this code has been revoked for
cause.
   H.   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   I.   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license.
   J.   A corporation, if any officer, manager, or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
village.
   K.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
   L.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this chapter, or shall have forfeited his bond to
appear in court to answer charges for any such violation.
   M.   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued.
   N.   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a state retail
liquor dealer's license.
   O.   Any member of the village police department or board of trustees or the
village president.
   P.   Any person who does not have dramshop insurance in the amount of at
least fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) covering the premises and the
licensee, issued by an insurance company qualified to issue such insurance
under the statutes and regulations of the state. (Ord. 89-O-10, 7-26-1989)
10-2-4: CLASSES OF LICENSES:
   A.   Class I licenses may be issued for sale at retail on the premises
specified in such license of alcoholic liquor for use and consumption upon the
premises specified, which premises shall qualify as a "restaurant" as herein
defined. Notwithstanding any other provision in this title to the contrary, it
shall be lawful for the holder of a Class I license to sell or offer for sale
alcoholic liquor in the village between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) A.M.
and one o’clock (1:00) A.M. the next day on the following days: Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. It shall also be lawful for the holder of such
Class I license, during any week, to sell or offer for sale alcoholic liquor in
the village between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. on Friday and two
o’clock (2:00) A.M. Saturday morning, and between the hours of ten o’clock (10:
00) A.M. on Saturday and two o’clock (2:00) A.M. Sunday morning. Nothing
contained herein shall be construed to affect the hours of operation for any
other licensee in the village. It shall be unlawful for the holder of a Class I
license to sell or offer for sale alcoholic liquors at any hours other than
those set forth herein, however, the licensed premises may remain open for
other business operations other than the sale or offering for sale of alcoholic
liquors.
   B.   Class II licenses may be issued for sale at retail on the premises
specified in such license of alcoholic liquor for use and consumption upon the
premises specified, which premises shall qualify as a not for profit sponsored
"restaurant" as herein defined. Notwithstanding any other provision in this
title to the contrary, it shall be lawful for the holder of a Class II license
to sell or offer for sale alcoholic liquor in the village between the hours of
ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. and one o’clock (1:00) A.M. the next day on the
following days: Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. It shall also
be lawful for the holder of such Class II license, during any week, to sell or
offer for sale alcoholic liquor in the village between the hours of ten o’clock
(10:00) A.M. on Friday and two o’clock (2:00) A.M. Saturday morning, and
between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. on Saturday and two o’clock (2:
00) A.M. Sunday morning. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to affect
the hours of operation for any other licensee in the village. It shall be
unlawful for the holder of a Class II license to sell or offer for sale
alcoholic liquors at any hours other than those set forth herein, however, the
licensed premises may remain open for other business operations other than the
sale or offering for sale of alcoholic liquors.
   C.   Class III licenses may be issued for sale at retail on the premises
specified in such licenses of alcoholic liquor for use and consumption upon the
premises specified, which premises need not qualify as a "restaurant" as herein
defined, provided that such premises shall be classified as general business
district under the zoning ordinances of this code. Notwithstanding any other
provision in this title to the contrary, it shall be lawful for the holder of a
Class III license to sell or offer for sale alcoholic liquor in the village
between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. and one o’clock (1:00) A.M. the
next day on the following days: Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday. It shall also be lawful for the holder of such Class III license,
during any week, to sell or offer for sale alcoholic liquor in the village
between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. on Friday and two o’clock (2:00)
A.M. Saturday morning, and between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. on
Saturday and two o’clock (2:00) A.M. Sunday morning. Nothing contained herein
shall be construed to affect the hours of operation for any other licensee in
the village. It shall be unlawful for the holder of a Class III license to sell
or offer for sale alcoholic liquors at any hours other than those set forth
herein, however, the licensed premises may remain open for other business
operations other than the sale or offering for sale of alcoholic liquors.
   D.   Class IV licenses may be issued for sale at retail, on the premises
specified in such licenses, of alcoholic liquors by means of bar service, for
consumption on the premises only. The premises licensed under this subsection
will be those serving alcohol as a subsidiary use to the primary use of the
premises, other than premises which are primarily restaurants. Such premises
and licensees shall at all times comply with the following terms and
conditions:
      1.   Notwithstanding any other provision in this title to the contrary,
it shall be lawful for the holder of a class IV license to sell or offer for
sale alcoholic liquor in the village between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the next day on the following days: Sunday,
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. It shall also be lawful for the holder
of such class IV license, during any week, to sell or offer for sale alcoholic
liquor in the village between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. on Friday
and two o'clock (2:00) A.M. Saturday morning, and between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M. on Saturday and two o'clock (2:00) A.M. Sunday morning.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to affect the hours of operation
for any other licensee in the village. It shall be unlawful for the holder of a
class IV license to sell or offer for sale alcoholic liquors at any hours other
than those set forth herein, however, the licensed premises may remain open for
other business operations other than the sale or offering for sale of alcoholic
liquors.
      2.   No premises licensed under this class IV license provision shall
contain more than twenty two (22) coin operated amusement devices nor more than
six (6) pool tables or billiard tables. The area of the premises where the
amusement devices and/or pool tables are located shall be physically separated
from the area where alcohol is served or offered for sale by a wall or other
solid divider to regulate entry into the area. Minors shall not be allowed to
be in the area where the amusement devices are located after nine o'clock (9:
00) P.M. on any day, nor shall alcohol be allowed in the area where the coin
operated amusement devices are located prior to nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on any
day.
      3.   The licensee of any premises licensed hereunder agrees that no
portion of the premises shall be utilized for any accessory uses as defined in
the zoning code of the village of Green Oaks, including, but not limited to,
cellular transmission towers; the sale or other transfer of all or any portion
of the licensed premises to any other party or entity will constitute a change
of location as described in section
10-2-12 of this chapter.
   E.   Class V licenses may be issued for sale at retail, but not for
consumption on the premises where sold, alcoholic liquor in the original
package, and without any limitation of inside display area or advertising by a
person so engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic liquor.
   F.   Class VI licenses shall be for a craft distiller holding a craft
distiller license issued by the state of Illinois. This license shall
authorize: 1) the on site production and storage of alcohol in quantities not
to exceed the limit imposed by the state of Illinois under 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/5-1, 2) the sale of such site distilled alcohol to persons
of at least twenty one (21) years of age for consumption on and off premises,
and 3) on site sampling of such alcohol. If permitted to do so by the State of
Illinois, the Class VI licensee may also serve vermouth, beer, wine and other
distilled spirits obtained from a duly licensed Illinois distributor. Such
craft distillery licenses shall be issued subject to the following conditions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for a class VI licensee to sell a container of
alcohol for off premises consumption unless the container is greater than or
equal to three hundred seventy five milliliters (375 ml) in volume and is
properly sealed for transport in a motor vehicle without violation of law.
      2.   Class VI licensees may, during authorized hours of business and to
the extent permitted by the Illinois liquor control act, as amended, sell their
alcoholic products manufactured on the licensed premises at retail for off and
on premises consumption, and sell other alcoholic products for on-premises
consumption as permitted under license from the State of Illinois. In addition,
class VI licensees may offer samples of the alcohol permitted to be produced
and sold pursuant to this classification. Licensees shall not provide more than
three (3) free samples, each of which shall not exceed one-third (0.33) fluid
ounce, to any person in a day. Licensees may sell samples, but the volume of
any sample sold shall not exceed one fluid ounce and the total volume of all
samples sold or given to a person in a day shall not exceed three (3) fluid
ounces. Class VI licensees must have at least one BASSET certified site manager
on premises. All servers and persons selling any form of alcoholic beverages
shall be BASSET certified.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for the holder of a class VI license to provide
a sample of or sell any alcohol before the hour of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. or
after the hour of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. The village liquor commissioner
is hereby authorized to extend the time by which sampling and sales must cease
by no more than two (2) hours upon application of the licensee. Such extensions
may be made no more than six (6) times in any calendar year. A class VI
licensee is allowed to sample and sell alcohol on Sundays, subject to the hour
restrictions provided in this chapter.
      4.   Every class VI licensee must have a valid craft distiller license or
distilling pub license from the State of Illinois.
      5.   Every employee of a class VI licensee who participates in the
serving or sale of alcohol, pursuant to this license class, must be BASSET
certified.
      6.   The annual single payment fee for initial issuance or renewal of
such license shall be as provided in section
10-2-8 of this chapter. There shall be no proration of the class VI license
fee.
      7.   No more than one such license shall be in force at any one time.
      8.   Compliance with the applicable regulations of the state of Illinois,
as amended and with the regulations of this chapter, as amended.
      9.   The licensee shall obtain and maintain an Illinois Retailer's Sales
Tax number and report and pay, when due, all sales taxes accordingly. Point of
sale shall be the Village of Green Oaks. The licensee may sell, at retail,
merchandise related to its operations, provided however, retail sales of
merchandise, as distinguished from the craft distilled spirits, shall be
incidental to the sale of such spirits. Such retail sales, in gross, shall not
exceed thirty three percent (33%) of gross retail sales from the licensed
premises.
   G.   Class VII licenses may be issued which shall authorize the sale,
serving and consumption, only on the premises specified, of alcoholic liquor
only for consumption upon the premises while food service is available. Such
licenses shall be issued only to premises owned, operated and maintained by a
"senior housing facility". Establishments holding Class VII licenses must
provide meals as part of the price of accommodations within the senior housing
facility. Sales of alcoholic liquor by Class VII licensees shall be to provide
alcoholic beverage service to residents of the facility, invited guests and
staff of the licensee only, and alcoholic beverages, when served, shall be
available only with meals and only during the regular meal service hours of the
facility. As used in this subsection, "senior housing facility" is defined as
housing developed, planned, designed, and operated to provide a full range of
accommodations and services for older adults including independent living,
assisted living, sheltered care, and nursing home care. This term shall
include, but not be limited to, continuing care communities and life care
retirement communities.
   H.   Class VIII licensees may be issued for the sale at retail at
convenience stores within gas stations. This license shall permit the holder to
sell at retail, but not for consumption on the premises where sold, alcoholic
beverages in the original package only and subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Not more than fifteen percent (15%) of the total floor area of the
licensed premises may be devoted to the storage and display of alcoholic
beverages.
      2.   An employee of the holder of the age of twenty-one (21) years or
older shall be present at all times alcoholic beverage containers are being
sold.
      3.   No signage advertising alcoholic beverage products shall be
displayed upon the exterior windows of the premises or affixed to the buildings
upon the premises.
      4.   If video gaming is permitted within the premises, there shall be no
consumption of alcoholic beverages at or within the area devoted to the video
gaming facilities.
      5. Sales of packaged alcoholic beverages shall be permitted only between
the hours of six o’clock (6:00) A.M. and midnight (12:00) A.M.
      6.   All retail sales of alcoholic beverage containers must be rung up by
an employee of the holder of the age of twenty-one (21) years or older.
      7.   It shall be unlawful for the holder of a class VIII license to
provide a sample of or permit the sampling of an alcoholic beverage upon the
licensed premises.
(Ord. 89-O-10, 7-26-1989; amd. Ord. 95-O-19, 6-28-1995; Ord. 2003-O-04, 3-26-
2003; Ord. 2009-O-12, 8-26-2009; Ord. 2010-O-16, 12-15-2010; Ord. 2016-O-01, 1-
27-2016; Ord. 2017-O-02, 2-22-2017; Ord. 2020-O-01, 3-31-2020; Ord. 2023-O-04,
3-22-2023; Ord. 2023-O-06, 4-26-2023)
10-2-5: MAXIMUM NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The number of licenses of each class to be issued shall not exceed the
following:
   A.   Class I: One (1) license.
   B.   Class II: One (1) license.
   C.   Class III: One (1) license.
   D.   Class IV: One (1) license. (Ord. 2010-O-16, 12-15-2010)
   E.   Class V: Two (2) licenses. (Ord. 2011-O-01, 5-25-2011)
   F.   Class VI: One (1) license. (Ord. 2010-O-16, 12-15-2010)
   G.   Class VII: Two (2) licenses.
   H.   Class VIII: One (1) license. (Ord. 2017-O-02, 2-22-2017; amd. Ord.
2023-O-04, 3-22-2023)
10-2-6: CHANGE IN MAXIMUM NUMBER OF LICENSES PERMITTED:
In the event that at any time any one (1) of the licenses provided for in
section
10-2-5 of this chapter shall lapse, be canceled or terminated in any manner,
the Village Authorities may reduce the maximum number of such licenses by
resolution of the Village Board of Trustees, but the maximum number of such
licenses may not be increased except by amendment to this chapter. (Ord. 89-O-
10, 7-26-1989)
10-2-7: TERM; PRORATING FEE:
Each such license shall terminate on the December 31 next following its
issuance. The fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full
calendar months which have expired in the year prior to the issuance of the
license. (Ord. 89-O-10, 7-26-1989)
10-2-8: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee to obtain or renew a craft distiller license or to otherwise
sell alcoholic liquor at retail shall be as follows:
   A.   Class I: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   B.   Class II: Eight hundred dollars ($800.00).
   C.   Class III: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   D.   Class IV: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   E.   Class V: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   F.   Class VI: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   G.   Class VII: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   H.   Class VIII: Two thousand dollars ($2,000.00). (Ord. 2010-O-16, 12-15-
2010; amd. Ord. 2017-O-09, 6-28-2017; Ord. 2023-O-04, 3-22-2023)
10-2-9: DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All such fees shall be paid to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner at the
time application is made, and shall be forthwith turned over to the Village
Treasurer. In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be
returned to the applicant. If the license is granted, then the fee shall be
deposited in the General Corporate Fund or in such other fund as shall have
been designated by the Board of Trustees, by proper action. (Ord. 89-O-10, 7-
26-1989)
10-2-10: LIST OF LICENSES IN FORCE:
The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept a complete
record of all such licenses issued by him and shall furnish the Village
Treasurer and Finance Chairman Trustee with a copy thereof. Upon the issuance
of any new license, or the revocation of any old license, the village president
shall give written notice of such action to each of these officers within forty
eight (48) hours of such action. (Ord. 89-O-10, 7-26-1989)
10-2-11: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed
one year after issuance unless sooner revoked as provided in this chapter, and
shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable voluntarily
or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall not descend by the laws of the state or intestate devolution, but it
shall cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that the executor or
administrator of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor and may
exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee;
provided further, that:
      1.   Such executor, administrator or trustee shall be subject to sections
10-2-2 and
10-2-3 of this chapter other than with respect to citizenship and residence
within the village; and
      2.   The authority granted hereunder shall be for a period not to exceed
one hundred eighty (180) days after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such
licensee.
   B.   A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fee paid for any
period in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under such
license in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   C.   Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof provided
he is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such
renewal license is sought are suitable for such purposes; and provided further,
that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a
vested right which shall in any case prevent the village authorities from
decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within the village. (Ord. 89-O-
10, 7-26-1989)
10-2-12: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
A retail liquor dealer's license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only
in the premises described in the application and license. Such location may be
changed only upon the written permit to make such change issued by the local
liquor control commissioner. No change of location shall be permitted unless
the proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor under the law of this state and the code and ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 89-O-10, 7-26-1989)
10-2-13: REVOCATION, SUSPENSION, REFUSAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   The local liquor control commissioner may revoke or suspend any license
issued by him under this chapter if he determines that the licensee has
violated any provisions of the Illinois liquor control act, or of this code, or
of any regulations established by the local liquor control commissioner or
Illinois liquor control commission which are not inconsistent with state
statutes, or if the restrictions in section
10-2-3 of this chapter become applicable, or for just cause.
   B.   In addition, the local liquor control commissioner may, on complaint of
the department of revenue of the state, refuse the issuance or renewal of a
retailer's license, or suspend or revoke such license, for any of the following
violations of the retailers' occupation tax act as amended: failure to make a
tax return; the filing of a fraudulent tax return; failure to pay all or part
of any tax or penalty finally determined to be due; failure to keep books and
records; failure to secure and display a certificate or subcertificates of
registration; or wilful violation of any rule or regulation of the department
of revenue relating to the administration and enforcement of tax liability.
   C.   In lieu of suspending or revoking a license for violations as provided
in subsection A of this section, the local liquor control commissioner may
instead levy a fine against the licensee for such violation in a sum not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation; each day on which a
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. Not more than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) in fines may be imposed against any licensee
during the period of his license (1 year), and all such fines shall be imposed
as provided in section 7-5 of the liquor control act of 1934 1 , as amended
from time to time.
   D.   No such license shall be so revoked or suspended, or fine imposed in
lieu thereof, except after a hearing by the local liquor control commissioner
with a three (3) day written notice to the licensee affording the licensee an
opportunity to appear and defend; provided, that if the local liquor control
commissioner has reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular
licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the community, he
may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the reason for such
conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the licensed premises closed
for not more than seven (7) days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be
heard during that period. If such licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct
of another business or businesses on the licensed premises, any orders issued
under this section shall not be applicable to such other business or
businesses.
   E.   All hearings conducted by the local liquor control commissioner shall
be conducted with all persons giving testimony or making statements being
placed under oath; and a certified official record of the proceedings shall be
taken and prepared by a certified court reporter or certified shorthand
reporter and placed on file with the local liquor control commissioner.
   F.   The local liquor control commissioner shall within five (5) days after
such hearing, if he determines after such hearing that the license should be
revoked or suspended, or fine levied, state the reason or reasons for such
determination in a written order of revocation or suspension and shall serve a
copy of such order upon the licensee.
   G.   Any resident of the village shall have the right to file a complaint
with the local liquor control commissioner stating that any retailer licensee
under this chapter has been or is committing one or more violations set forth
in subsection A of this section. Such complaint shall be in writing in the form
prescribed by the local liquor control commissioner and shall be signed and
sworn to by the parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular
provision, rule or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in
detail upon which belief is based. If the local liquor control commissioner is
satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a violation and that from
the facts alleged there is reasonable cause for such belief, he shall set the
matter for hearing and shall serve at least three (3) days' written notice upon
the licensee and the complainants of the time and place of such hearing and of
the particular charge in the complaint. The local liquor control commissioner
shall then comply with this section.
   H.   Within twenty (20) days after the local liquor control commissioner
shall give notice of issuing an order granting or refusing to grant; revoking,
suspending or refusing to revoke or suspend a license; or fining a licensee in
lieu thereof, under this chapter; or after the local liquor control
commissioner shall have failed or refused for more than twenty (20) days to
grant a hearing upon a resident's complaint to revoke or suspend a license, any
village resident or interested person may appeal to the Illinois liquor control
commission in the manner provided by state statute.
   I.   All appeals from the orders of the local liquor control commissioner to
the Illinois liquor control commission shall be limited to a review of the
official record of the proceedings of the local liquor control commissioner as
provided in section 7-9 of the Illinois liquor control act of 1934 2 . Within
five (5) days after notice of filing of such appeal, the local liquor control
commissioner shall file with the Illinois liquor control commission the
certified official record of the proceedings as prepared in accordance with
subsection E of this section. (Ord. 89-O-10, 7-26-1989)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS.
2 1. 235 ILCS.
CHAPTER 3
REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Peddling
10-3-2: Sanitary Conditions
10-3-3: Employees
10-3-4: Business Location
10-3-5: Closing Hours
10-3-6: Signs And Advertising
10-3-7: Minors
10-3-8: Additional Regulations
10-3-9: BASSET Program
10-3-10: Reporting Of Disorderly Conduct, Violations Of Law
10-3-11: Nudity
10-3-1: PEDDLING:
It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the village. (Ord. 89-O-10,
7-26-1989)
10-3-2: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the storage
of such liquor for such sale, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition,
and shall be kept in full compliance with the sections of the code and
ordinances regulating the conditions or premises used for the storage or sale
of food for human consumption. (Ord. 89-O-10, 7-26-1989)
10-3-3: EMPLOYEES:
   A.   The term "employee" shall mean any person hired to work at the premises
and listed on the establishment's payroll.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor any person under the age of twenty one (21) years of age for
the purpose of drawing, pouring, or mixing any alcoholic liquor. However, a
person less than twenty one (21) years of age, but at least eighteen (18) years
of age, may serve or deliver alcoholic liquor when in the presence of and under
the direct supervision and control of an employee twenty one (21) years of age
or older. A class V license holder must employ a person twenty one (21) years
of age or older for the purpose of selling package liquor.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with or who is a carrier of any
contagious, infectious or venereal disease; and it shall be unlawful for any
person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such disease to work in or
about the premises or to engage in any way in the handling, preparation or
distribution of such liquor. (Ord. 2009-O-12, 8-26-2009)
10-3-4: BUSINESS LOCATION:
No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
within two hundred feet (200') of any church, school, hospital, home for aged
or indigent persons or veterans, their wives or children or any military or
naval station; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels
offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food
shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal
business carried on, if such place of business so exempted shall have been
established for such purposes prior to the taking effect of this code; nor to
the renewal of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises
within one hundred feet (100') of any church where such church has been
established within such one hundred feet (100') since the issuance of the
original license. (Ord. 89-O-10, 7-26-1989)
10-3-5: CLOSING HOURS:
Except as provided in subsection
10-2-4D of this title relating to class IV licenses, it shall be lawful to sell
or offer for sale alcoholic liquor in the village on each day of the week,
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight each day, except on Saturday and Sunday, on which days all premises
licensed hereunder may be open from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. until twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight. It shall be unlawful to keep open for business or to
admit the public to any premises in or on which alcoholic liquor is sold at
retail during the hours within which the sale of such liquor is prohibited;
provided, that in case of restaurants, clubs, and hotels, such establishments
may be kept open during such hours, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold to or
consumed by the public during such hours. (Ord. 89-O-10, 7-26-1989; amd. Ord.
2003-O-04, 3-26-2003)
10-3-6: SIGNS AND ADVERTISING:
No premises which are licensed hereunder shall have any signs on or outside the
building which advertise any particular brand or kind of liquor, or the fact
that alcoholic liquors are for sale on the premises; provided, that small
lighted signs not larger than twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x
36") mounted in windows may be displayed. (Ord. 89-O-10, 7-26-1989)
10-3-7: MINORS:
   A.   Sales By Licensees To Minors And Certain Others: No licensee, or
officer, associate, member, representative, agent or employee of a licensee,
shall give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under twenty one (21)
years of age, to any intoxicated persons, or to any person known to him to be a
habitual drunkard.
   B.   Gifts Or Resales To Minors: No person, after purchasing or otherwise
obtaining liquor shall sell, give, or deliver it to another person under twenty
one (21) years of age except in the performance of a religious ceremony or
service under the authority of an organized church.
   C.   Purchases By Minors: No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall
purchase or attempt to purchase or accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or have
alcoholic liquor in his or her possession.
   D.   Proof Of Age:
      1.   If a licensee or his agents or employees believe, from appearance or
other circumstances, or has reason to believe, that a prospective recipient of
alcoholic liquor is under twenty one (21) years of age, he shall, before making
such sale or delivery, demand from that person positive identification
providing proof of age issued by a public officer in the performance of his
official duties.
      2.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall purchase,
obtain or attempt to purchase or obtain alcoholic liquor in any place in the
village where alcoholic liquor is sold.
      3.   No person shall transfer, alter, or deface any identification card
containing proof of age and issued by a public officer in the performance of
his official duties, or use the identification card of another, or carry or use
a false or forged identification card or obtain an identification card by means
of false information.
      4.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall by any means
misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic liquor in any place in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold.
   E.   Responsibility Of Parent: No parent or guardian shall knowingly suffer
or permit any child under twenty one (21) years of age of which he or she may
be the parent or guardian to violate any provision or provisions of this title.
(Ord. 89-O-10, 7-26-1989)
10-3-8: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
Nothing in this title shall excuse or relieve the licensee of any place in the
village where alcoholic liquor is sold from the restrictions and requirements
of any other provisions of this title, or of the ordinances of the village or
of the provisions of the statutes of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 89-O-10, 7-
26-1989)
10-3-9: BASSET PROGRAM:
   A.   Training Program:
      1.   For licenses effective on or after the effective date hereof, the
original or renewal application for a class I, II, III or IV license shall be
accompanied by a proof of completion of a state certified beverage alcohol
sellers and servers education and training (BASSET) program for all persons who
serve and sell alcoholic beverages pursuant to that license.
      2.   For licenses effective on or after the effective date hereof, the
original or renewal application for a class I, II, III or IV license shall be
accompanied by a proof of completion of a state certified beverage alcohol
sellers and servers education and training (BASSET) program for the manager of
the licensee. (Ord. 2004-O-12, 10-27-2004)
      3.   All persons who serve or sell alcoholic liquor shall, prior to
serving or selling any alcoholic liquor within the village of Green Oaks,
register for a BASSET course by contacting the village administrator's office
to advise them of the student's name and establishment. This course is to be
completed within ninety (90) days of employment with establishment.
Registration of employees is the responsibility of the licensee.
      4.   After the effective date hereof, all persons who serve or sell
alcoholic liquor, including the manager of every licensee, shall complete the
BASSET program within ninety (90) days from the beginning of their employment
with that licensee, and shall, until completion of the BASSET program, work
under the supervision of a person who has completed the BASSET program.
      5.   A photocopy of the certificate of completion of the BASSET program
will be on file with the village administrator and maintained in the manager's
office on the premises of the licensee.
      6.   BASSET completion cards are to be carried and exhibited on demand.
Every student who has successfully completed the BASSET program shall have his/
her BASSET completion card in his/her immediate possession at all times when
selling or serving alcoholic liquor within the village of Green Oaks and, for
the purpose of indicating compliance with this requirement, shall display his/
her BASSET course completion card if it is in his/her possession upon demand by
any police officer or other authorized agent of the liquor commissioner.
      7.   The liquor commissioner of the village may, in his/her discretion,
extend the time for the completion of the training, for renewal of the license
only, for an additional ninety (90) day period. Said extensions shall be given
on a case by case basis for good cause shown. Request for said extension will
be in writing and presented to the liquor commissioner a minimum of thirty (30)
days prior to original required completion date.
      8.   Employees of liquor license establishments that are of a "temporary
status" (Christmas, summer help, etc.) whose employment does not extend past
ninety (90) days from the date of employment are not required to complete the
training program but must, for the duration of their employment work under the
immediate supervision of a person who has completed the BASSET program. Proof
of employment hiring date is to be exhibited upon the demand of a police
officer or other agent authorized by the liquor commissioner. "Temporary
status" sellers and servers must also contact the village administrator to
advise the village administrator of their name, the hiring establishment and
hiring date prior to selling or serving any alcoholic liquor within the village
of Green Oaks. Responsibility for registration of all "temporary status"
employees rests with the licensee. (Ord. 2001-O-18, 8-22-2001)
   B.   Service, Sale And Management Without Required Training Prohibited: It
shall be unlawful to permit any person in a class I, II, III or IV
establishment to serve or sell alcoholic beverages unless that person has
completed the BASSET program as required by this section. It shall be unlawful
to employ a manager in a class I, II, III or IV licensed establishment unless
that person has completed the BASSET program as required in this section. (Ord.
2004-O-12, 10-27-2004)
   C.   Repeating Course: In addition to other penalties imposed in this
chapter, a person violating any regulation of this chapter may be required to
again complete the BASSET program as required in this section.
   D.   Violation: Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of
this section shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), and each day a violation continues
shall be considered a separate violation. (Ord. 2001-O-18, 8-22-2001)
10-3-10: REPORTING OF DISORDERLY CONDUCT, VIOLATIONS OF LAW:
   A.   All licensees are under an affirmative duty of reporting to the police
any and all incidents of disorderly conduct or any and all criminal violation
or violations of this chapter which take place within or upon premises for
which a liquor license has been issued pursuant to this chapter immediately
upon observance or notification of the incident. The licensee, employee or
agent making a report of an incident shall identify himself to the police
dispatcher and state the nature of the incident. For the purposes of this
chapter, "disorderly conduct" as used herein shall mean such act or behavior of
any person that in any unreasonable manner alarms or disturbs another or
provokes a breach of the peace within, or upon such premises. Failure to report
to the police as herein provided shall be a violation of the license hereunder.
(Ord. 2001-O-18, 8-22-2001)
10-3-11: NUDITY:
No nudity shall be allowed within or upon the licensed premises. For purposes
of this title, "nudity" shall be defined as a state of dress or undress that
exposes to view: a) less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals;
pubic region; anus; or female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola, but not including any portion of the cleavage of the female breast
exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing
apparel, provided the areola is not exposed, or b) human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered, or any
device or covering that, when worn, simulates human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state. (Ord. 2003-O-04, 3-26-2003)
TITLE 11
SIGN REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Scope
11-1-1: TITLE:
This Title shall be known and may be cited as the SIGN ORDINANCE OF THE
VILLAGE. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
The regulations set forth herein are established in order to promote and
protect the public health, safety, comfort, prosperity and welfare and in order
to accomplish the following specific purposes:
   A.   To enhance the economy, business and industry of the Village by
promoting the reasonable, orderly and effective use and display of signs;
   B.   To enhance the physical appearance of the Village;
   C.   To protect the general public from damage and injury which might be
caused by the faulty and uncontrolled construction and use of signs within the
Village;
   D.   To protect the public use of streets and highways by reducing sign and
advertising distractions that may increase accidents;
   E.   To preserve the value of private property by assuring the compatibility
of signs with surrounding land uses;
   F.   To establish a permit system to allow a variety of types of signs in
all use districts (zones);
   G.   To allow certain signs that are small, unobtrusive, and incidental to
the principal use of the respective lots on which they are located, subject to
the substantive requirements of this Title, but without a requirement for
permits;
   H.   To prohibit all signs not expressly permitted by this Title; and
   I.   To provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this Title. (Ord.
91-06, 8-28-91)
11-1-3: SCOPE:
This Title shall not relate to building design. Nor shall this Title regulate
official traffic or government signs; the copy and message of signs; signs not
intended to be viewed from a public right of way or street; window displays;
product dispensers and point of purchase displays; scoreboards on athletic
fields; flags of any nation, government, or noncommercial organization;
gravestones; religious symbols; commemorative plaques; the display of street
numbers; or any display or construction not defined herein as a "sign". (Ord.
91-06, 8-28-91)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Rules Of Construction
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
The language set forth in the text of this title shall be interpreted in accord
with the following rules of construction:
   A.   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular;
   B.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future
tense includes the present tense;
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory, while the word "may" is permissive,
unless the context indicates otherwise;
   D.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter;
   E.   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of this
title, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definitions thereof;
   F.   The use in this title of the phrase "any sign or other advertising
device" or similar phrase shall mean all of the signs and devices defined in
this title; and
   G.   Where terms are not defined through methods authorized by this title,
they shall have their ordinarily accepted meaning such as the context may
imply. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-1991)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Certain terms are defined for the purposes of this title as follows:
BALLOON SIGN: Any sign which is printed or painted on or suspended into the air
by a hot air balloon, kite, or similar device. All balloon signs shall be
considered temporary signs.
BANNER SIGN: Any sign printed or painted on fabric, lightweight plastic, paper,
or flags or pennants, and used for attracting the attention of the public. All
banner signs shall be considered temporary signs.
BILLBOARD: Any sign which directs attention to a business, commodity, service
or activity not necessarily conducted, sold or offered upon the premises where
such sign is located. A temporary construction sign that is located on a
property that indicates a business, or use that is located off-site, but that
may be expanding, re-locating or beginning a new business or use on the
property where the temporary construction sign is located is not to be
considered a "billboard" sign, by definition.
BUILDING COMMISSIONER: The Building Commissioner of the Village of Green Oaks.
BUILDING DEPARTMENT: The Building Department of the Village of Green Oaks.
BUILDING FRONTAGE: The horizontal width of a building fronting on a street and
measured between lines perpendicular to the street or perpendicular to the cord
line of a curved street (see figure
11-2-2:A, set out in section
11-9-3 of this title).
CANOPY OR MARQUEE: Any permanent roof-like structure constructed of metal or
other noncombustible material projecting beyond a building or extending along
and projecting beyond the wall of a building, generally designed and
constructed to provide protection from the weather.
COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL: A material which cannot be classified as "noncombustible"
in accord with that definition.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: A construction sign is a temporary sign identifying a
business or use to be constructed on the subject property and may also include
the name of the architect, engineer, contractor, subcontractor, or material
supplier participating in construction on the lot where the sign is located.
DEVELOPER'S SIGN: Any freestanding nonilluminated sign which promotes and
describes only the sale or rental of land or buildings in any development on
that lot.
ELECTRONIC CHANGEABLE MESSAGE SIGN: An illuminated sign whose message content,
either in whole or in part, may be changed by means of electronic programming
and may include visual graphics with or without motion or animation with a
fixed or changing display/message composed of a series of lights. Fuel price
signs for an automobile service station that only display and change the
numerical price value of fuel once daily shall be considered only an
illuminated sign and not an electronic changeable message sign. Similarly,
signs whose changeable message content only indicate the time and/or
temperature shall be considered only an illuminated sign and not an electronic
changeable message sign.
FESTOON SIGN: A string of ribbons, tinsel, small flags, or pinwheels. Festoon
signs shall be considered temporary signs.
FLASHING SIGNS: Any illuminated sign on which such illumination is not kept
stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times, but not including
electronic changeable message signs.
FREESTANDING SIGN: Any sign supported by post, poles, pylons, uprights, braces
or other supports placed upon the ground and not attached to any building.
IDENTIFICATION SIGN: Any sign which directs attention to an institution or
public use, business, profession or to a commodity, service or entertainment
sold or offered upon the premises where such sign is located.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: Any sign which is illuminated by electric lights or luminous
devices as part of the sign proper.
ILLUMINATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL: Any official traffic control device or sign which
is illuminated by electric lights or luminous devices.
INCIDENTAL SIGNS: A sign pertaining to goods, products, services or facilities
which are available on the premises where the sign is located, such as signs
pertaining to trading stamps, credit cards, service information and pricing.
LOT: Any property, improved or unimproved.
LOT, UNIMPROVED: Any platted lot or tract of land used as a whole which is
completely unoccupied by a building or structure and upon which no building or
structure has been commenced.
MONUMENT SIGN: Any free standing decorative sign which advertises the business
conducted on the premises.
MOVING SIGN: Any sign that has any external or visible part or parts that move,
rotate or spin.
NONCOMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL: Any material which will not ignite at or below a
temperature of one thousand two hundred degrees Fahrenheit (1,200°F) and will
not continue to burn or glow at that temperature.
PERMITTEE: Any person, firm or corporation holding a permit pursuant to this
title.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or organization
of any type or kind.
PORTABLE SIGN: Any sign designed to be moved from place to place.
PREMISES: Any property, improved or unimproved.
PROJECTING WALL SIGN: Any sign which is attached directly to a building wall
and which extends more than eight inches (8"), but not more than thirty six
inches (36") from the face of the wall.
REAL ESTATE SIGN: A freestanding sign advertising the real estate upon which
the sign is located as being for rent, lease or sale.
ROOF SIGN: Any sign erected, constructed or maintained wholly or partially upon
or above the facia or parapet line of any building.
SHOPPING CENTER: Any concentration of two (2) or more retail stores or service
establishments in one or more buildings, or on one or more adjacent lots, under
single ownership or management, or with one or more of the following:
   A.   Common parking facilities;
   B.   Common stormwater detention or storm sewer facilities;
   C.   Common water distribution facilities;
   D.   Common sanitary sewer facilities; or
   E.   Without exclusive ingress or egress from public streets.
SIGN: Any device, including exterior clocks, temperature indicators, marquees,
canopies, placards or other representations containing words, letters,
printing, pictures, designs or combinations thereof used in the nature of
advertisement, or directions calculated to attract public attention.
STORE FRONTAGE: The length of any wall of a store which fronts a street,
customer parking area or customer entrance, but not including exterior walls of
service and loading areas (see section
11-9-3, figure
11-2-2:B of this title).
SURFACE AREA OF SIGN: The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of the sign surface. It does not include any
structural elements outside the limits of such sign and not forming an integral
part of the display. All sides of a double or multiple faced sign structure
shall be used in computing the total surface area except where specific
provision is made to the contrary.
TEMPORARY SIGN: Any balloon sign, banner sign, festoon sign or pennant sign
without a structural frame. The previously itemized types of temporary signs
without a sign structure may not need to meet the construction standards of
section
11-4-6 of this title as part of the approval by the Village Board. Some signs
with a sign structure may also be included in the definition of a temporary
sign in any district when the temporary sign, its dimensions and its structure
are approved by the Board of Trustees as a special permit/temporary sign that
may be displayed for more than thirty (30) days with a maintenance agreement
approved by the Board of Trustees and shall be subject to the restrictions and
conditions imposed by the Board of Trustees as part of the permit for this type
of temporary sign including, but not limited to, the duration the sign is to be
displayed.
VEHICLE SIGN: Any sign attached to an automobile, truck, trailer, vehicle or
movable device which is parked for the purpose of display of same.
VILLAGE BOARD: The President and Board of Trustees of the Village.
WALL SIGNS: Any sign which is attached directly to a building wall, canopy or
marquee and which does not have a sign cabinet that projects more than eight
inches (8") from the face of the wall, canopy or marque.
WINDOW SIGN: Any sign installed inside a window and intended to be viewed from
the outside.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The zoning ordinance of the Village of Green Oaks. (Ord. 91-
06, 8-28-1991; amd. Ord. 2015-O-20, 11-18-2015; Ord. 2017-O-15, 9-27-2017; Ord.
2022-O-21, 10-26-2022)
CHAPTER 3
PERMITS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Permit Required
11-3-2: Signs Exempt from Permits
11-3-3: Sign Erection Permit Application
11-3-4: Sign Erection Permit Fees
11-3-5: Examination and Approval of Application and Plans
11-3-6: Annual Sign Inspection
11-3-7: Annual Sign Inspection Fees
11-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall hereafter erect, construct, relocate, structurally alter any
sign, billboard or other advertising device, within the Village without having
first obtained a permit as provided in this Title. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-3-2: SIGNS EXEMPT FROM PERMITS:
The following types of signs are exempt from the permit requirements but must
conform with all other requirements of this Title:
   A.   Real Estate signs, which are freestanding and unilluminated and which
do not exceed twelve (12) square feet in surface area per face;
   B.   Window signs, which are located on private property, with the consent
of the owner and not exceeding twelve (12) square feet in total cumulative sign
surface area;
   C.   Instructional signs, which provide direction or instruction and are
located entirely on the property to which they pertain and do not in any way
advertise a business and do not exceed four (4) square feet in total sign
surface area;
   D.   Public facilities signs, which identify restrooms, public telephones
and walkways and do not exceed four (4) square feet in sign surface area;
   E.   Directional signs, provide direction, such as parking lot entrance and
exit signs, and those of a similar nature and do not exceed four (4) square
feet in sign surface area; and
   F.   Political or noncommercial signs, which are regulated in each use
district of this Title, which are located on private property, provided that
said signs shall be removed no later than three (3) days after the election or
activity to which the sign pertains or sixty (60) days after erection of the
sign, whichever is sooner. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-3-3: SIGN ERECTION PERMIT APPLICATION:
Application for a sign erection permit under this Title shall be made upon
forms provided by the Building Department (see Appendix B, Section
11-9-2) and shall contain or have attached the following information:
   A.   Name, address and telephone number of the owner of the premises and the
person erecting the sign;
   B.   Signature of owner or authorized agent;
   C.   Location of the building, structure or property to which the sign or
other advertising device is to be attached or erected;
   D.   Description of sign including the general sign type, type of
illumination, number of sign faces, and sign function;
   E.   Cost or estimated contract value of the proposed work;
   F.   Plot plan accurately showing the location of the proposed sign along
with the location and square footage areas of all existing signs on the same
premises;
   G.   Scale drawings and specifications showing the materials, design,
dimensions, structural supports, electrical components, and color chip samples
for the proposed sign;
   H.   Other required documents including the following:
      1.   Design review approval report from the Village Board for all signs
in the business, office and industrial use districts;
      2.   Special permit from the Village Board for all signs that require
special permits;
      3.   Approval report from any property owners' association or similar
private body established by covenants or agreements approved by the Village
Board; and
      4.   Other documents as may be required by the Building Commissioner.
   I.   Filing and plan review fee for the proposed sign. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-3-4: SIGN ERECTION PERMIT FEES:
Every applicant being granted an original permit hereunder shall pay the
following permit fee for each sign structure:
   A.   Nonilluminated Signs: Twenty dollars ($20.00) plus forty cents ($0.40)
per square foot of sign surface area of the proposed sign.
   B.   Illuminated Signs: Thirty five dollars ($35.00) plus fifty cents
($0.50) per square foot of sign surface area of the proposed sign.
   C.   Temporary Signs: Twenty five dollars ($25.00) as defined by this Title.
   D.   Developer's Sign: Twenty dollars ($20.00) plus forty cents ($0.40) per
square foot of sign surface area of the proposed sign. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-3-5: EXAMINATION AND APPROVAL OF APPLICATION AND PLANS:
It shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner, after examination of an
application for a sign erection permit, to issue said permit if in the opinion
of the Building Commissioner the application is in good form and complies with
all requirements as set forth in this Title and other Village ordinances. If
the work authorized under a sign erection permit has not been completed within
one year after the date of issuance, the said permit shall be null and void.
(Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-3-6: ANNUAL SIGN INSPECTION:
The Building Commissioner, or his agent, shall inspect annually, or more
frequently as deemed necessary, all of the following signs in all use districts
in the Village:
   A.   Signs above any walkway or which may endanger passers-by upon any
walkway on which the public is invited or encouraged to pass; and
   B.   Freestanding signs wherever located within the village. (Ord. 91-06, 8-
28-91)
11-3-7: ANNUAL SIGN INSPECTION FEES:
No annual inspection fee, except for "temporary signs" as defined in this
Title, shall be charged during the fiscal year in which the sign or other
advertising device is erected. To meet the expenses of such annual inspection,
the sign owner or permittee thereof shall pay the Village the following fees:
   A.   Temporary Signs: Ten dollars ($10.00) per month for such signs erected
for a period in excess of thirty (30) days or fraction thereof.
   B.   Nonilluminated Signs: Ten dollars ($10.00) plus twenty cents ($0.20)
per square foot of sign surface area per year.
   C.   Illuminated Signs: Seventeen dollars fifty cents ($17.50) plus twenty
five cents ($0.25) per square foot of sign surface area per year.
   D.   Developer's Sign: Ten dollars ($10.00) plus twenty cents ($0.20) per
square foot of sign surface area per year. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-4-1: General Provisions
11-4-2: Signs Prohibited
11-4-3: Illuminated Signs
11-4-4: Wall Signs
11-4-5: Obstructions
11-4-6: Construction
11-4-7: Temporary Signs
11-4-8: Maintenance Of Signs
11-4-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The following provisions and restriction of this title shall apply to all signs
in all use districts:
   A.   All signs shall be so constructed, erected and maintained so that all
danger to persons or property shall be eliminated;
   B.   No sign shall be erected or maintained so as to obstruct traffic
control signals at street intersections, or traffic sight lines or signals at
railroad grade crossings;
   C.   Signs visible from a street shall not contain an arrow or the words
"stop" or "danger" or otherwise resemble or simulate official traffic control
signs; and
   D.   Every sign, except for signs for which no permit is required, shall be
plainly marked with the name of the person erecting and maintaining same. Such
person or the owner of the premises on which the sign is located shall be the
responsible party for the purpose of receiving notice under any section of this
title. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-1991)
11-4-2: SIGNS PROHIBITED:
All signs not expressly permitted under this title are prohibited and include,
but are not limited to the following:
   A.   Exposed neon tubing on freestanding signs;
   B.   Flashing signs and devices;
   C.   Illuminated signs with revolving or rotating beams or beacons;
   D.   Moving signs;
   E.   Signs painted on walls;
   F.   Roof signs, except signs painted upon a flat roof surface that can be
seen only from the air are permitted in all business, office and industrial use
districts; and
   G.   Vehicle signs. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-1991)
11-4-3: ILLUMINATED SIGNS:
All illuminated signs shall meet all of the following standards:
   A.   Wiring: All illuminated signs shall be wired in accordance with the
regulations as prescribed by the Village's Electrical Code 1 ;
   B.   Preventing Glare: Gooseneck reflectors and spotlights shall be
permitted on freestanding and wall signs, provided that any lights be installed
in such a manner that the direct rays of such lights be concentrated on the
sign and be prevented from causing a glare on or striking any street or nearby
property. Reflectors shall be provided with proper lenses or baffles
concentrating the illumination upon the area of the sign;
   C.   Hours Of Operation: Illuminated signs located on a lot adjacent to,
across the street from, or in the next use district to any residential use
district, shall be turned off and not operated between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. unless the premises on which
or for which the sign is specifically operated is engaged in the operation of
that business, office or industry, in which event the sign shall not be
operated past one o'clock (1:00) A.M.;
   D.   Distraction: No illuminated sign shall be placed within one hundred
feet (100') of any illuminated traffic signal if it will interfere with,
confuse or distract driver compliance with said illuminated traffic signals;
and
   E.   Illuminated Lettering Only: Illuminated signs may have back lighted
letters or internally lighted letters, but not illuminated backgrounds. (Ord.
91-06, 8-28-91)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-2-3 of this Code.
11-4-4: WALL SIGNS:
All wall signs shall meet the following standards:
   A.   Height: All wall signs shall not be higher than the facia or parapet
line of the building, canopy or marquee to which they are attached; and
   B.   Clearance: Except for wall signs which are completely flush with the
wall surface, the minimum clearance below wall signs shall be ten feet (10')
above any pedestrian walkway, fifteen feet (15') above any driveway or road,
nor below the soffit line of any canopy or marquee. Wall signs located over
landscaping features shall be three feet (3') minimum above the grade level
below said signs (see Figure
11-4-4:A, set out in Section
11-9-3). (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-4-5: OBSTRUCTIONS:
All signs shall not create any of the following obstructions:
   A.   Building Obstructions: No sign shall obstruct any window, door, fire
escape, stairway or opening intended to provide light, air, ingress or egress
for any building or structure;
   B.   Clear Vision Requirements: No sign which obstructs sight lines at
elevations between eighteen inches (18") and six feet (6') above the roadway
shall be placed or permitted to remain on any corner lot within the triangular
area formed by the street property lines connecting them at points fifty feet
(50') from the intersection of the street lines, or in the case of a rounded
corner, from the intersection of the street property lines extended. The same
sight line limitations regarding height shall apply on any interior lot within
the triangular area formed by the street property line and the edge of the
driveway and the line connecting them at points ten feet (10') from the
intersection of the property line and the driveway (see Figure
11-4-5:B, set out in Section
11-9-3). (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-4-6: CONSTRUCTION:
All signs shall meet the following construction standards:
   A.   Materials: All signs shall be constructed of metal, noncombustible or
approved combustible material or materials approved for signs by the Building
Code and Electrical Code of the Village 1 , except for signs for which no
permit is required;
   B.   Wind Loads: All signs shall be constructed to withstand wind pressures
as required by the Building Code of the Village, except for signs for which no
permit is required; and
   C.   Glass: Any glass forming a part of any sign shall be safety glass. Any
single pane or piece of glass having an area exceeding three (3) square feet
shall be wire glass. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 7, Chapter 2 of this Code.
11-4-7: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
"Temporary signs" as defined in this Title shall be subject to the following
conditions:
   A.   Location: Temporary signs shall be completely on private property;
   B.   Restrictions: Temporary signs shall be subject to the restrictions
imposed by the Board of Trustees upon the grant of a special permit;
   C.   Maintenance: Evidence of a maintenance agreement whereby all temporary
signs displayed for more than thirty (30) days shall be regularly maintained at
not less than thirty (30) day intervals. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-4-8: MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS:
All signs shall be properly maintained and meet the following standards:
   A.   All sign components, including without limitation supports, braces, and
anchors, shall be kept in a state of repair;
   B.   With respect to freestanding signs, components (supporting structures,
backs, etc.) not bearing a message shall be constructed of materials that blend
with the natural environment or shall be painted a neutral color to blend with
the natural environment;
   C.   If a sign other than a billboard advertises a business, service,
commodity, accommodation, attraction or other enterprise or activity that is no
longer operating or being offered or conducted, that sign shall be considered
abandoned, and shall within thirty (30) days after such abandonment be removed;
   D.   If the message portion of a sign is removed, leaving only the
supporting "shell" of a sign or the supporting braces, anchors, or similar
components, that message portion of the sign shall be replaced within thirty
(30) days or the remaining components of the sign shall be removed; and
   E.   The area within ten feet (10') in all directions of any part of a
freestanding sign shall be kept clear of all debris and weed undergrowth more
than five inches (5") in height. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-1991)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL USE DISTRICTS SIGNS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Residential Use Districts Signs
11-5-2: Setbacks
11-5-3: Permitted Signs
11-5-3-1: Construction Sign
11-5-3-2: Identification Sign
11-5-3-3: Landscaped Subdivision Identification Sign
11-5-3-4: Name Plate
11-5-3-5: Political or Noncommercial Signs
11-5-3-6: Real Estate Sign
11-5-4: Special Permit Signs
11-5-4-1: Developer's Sign
11-5-4-2: Temporary Signs
11-5-1: RESIDENTIAL USE DISTRICTS SIGNS:
In addition to the general provisions of this Title, all signs shall meet the
following standards provided herein. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-5-2: SETBACKS:
Permitted signs may be located in any required yard, but shall not be less than
eight feet (8') from any lot line adjacent to any street, nor less than five
feet (5') from any other lot line (see Figure
11-5-2:A, set out in Section
11-9-3). (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-5-3: PERMITTED SIGNS:
Signs permitted without a special permit include only the following and no
others: (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-5-3-1: CONSTRUCTION SIGN:
One single or double face freestanding unilluminated sign per lot, which shall
meet the following standards (see Figure
11-5-3-1:A, set out in Section
11-9-3):
   A.   Surface Area: The surface area of the sign shall not exceed twelve (12)
square feet per face;
   B.   Height: The sign shall be not more than eight feet (8') high; and
   C.   Removal: The sign shall be removed within ten (10) days following
occupancy of the building. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-5-3-2: IDENTIFICATION SIGN:
One single or double face freestanding sign or one wall sign per building
frontage per building, either of which may be illuminated, for each permitted
public use or similar institutional building. Such signs shall be solely for
the purpose of displaying the name of the institution or its activities or
services, and shall meet the following standards (see Figure
11-5-3-2:A, set out in Section
11-9-3):
   A.   Surface Area: The surface area of such signs shall not be greater than
twenty five (25) square feet per sign face; and
   B.   Height: The height of a freestanding sign shall not be higher than ten
feet (10'). (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-5-3-3: LANDSCAPED SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGN:
One single or double face unilluminated freestanding sign at each street
entrance to a subdivision for the sole purpose of displaying the name of the
subdivision, and which shall meet the following standards (see Figure
11-5-3-3:A, set out in Section
11-9-3):
   A.   Surface Area: The surface area of such signs shall not be greater than
twelve (12) square feet per face;
   B.   Height: The height of such sign shall not be higher than six feet (6')
above the ground at the base of the sign, nor higher than ten feet (10') above
the edge of the street pavement nearest the sign, whichever is less; and
   C.   Easement: Any such sign shall be located within a permanent easement
for the sign and landscaping. The easement shall include provisions for the
continued maintenance of the sign and landscaping, and shall be recorded as
part of the plat of subdivision. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-5-3-4: NAME PLATE:
One single face unilluminated name plate identifying the owner or occupant of
the building, provided the surface area does not exceed two (2) square feet and
the sign is attached to the wall of the building within five feet (5') of the
main door. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-5-3-5: POLITICAL OR NONCOMMERCIAL SIGNS:
Any number of sign, which shall not exceed six (6) square feet of cumulative
total surface area per lot. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-5-3-6: REAL ESTATE SIGN:
One single or double face unilluminated freestanding sign facing each street
frontage of a lot, and meeting the following standards (see Figure
11-5-3-6:A, set out in Section
11-9-3):
   A.   Surface Area: The surface area of such signs shall not exceed twelve
(12) square feet per face;
   B.   Height: Such signs shall not be higher than six feet (6'); and
   C.   Removal: These signs shall be removed within three (3) days after the
sale or lease of the property. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-5-4: SPECIAL PERMIT SIGNS:
A special permit sign shall be any sign approved by the Board of Trustees upon
granting of a special permit. Such signs shall be installed completely on
private property and shall be subject to the restrictions imposed by the Board
of Trustees. Special permit signs in residential use districts include the
following: (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-5-4-1: DEVELOPER'S SIGN:
One unilluminated freestanding single or double faced sign facing only one
street of a subdivision, and which shall also meet the residential use
districts setback standards as well as the following requirements (see Figure
11-5-4-1:A, set out in Section
11-9-3):
   A.   Surface Area: The surface area of such signs shall not be greater than
thirty two (32) square feet per face;
   B.   Height: Such signs shall not be higher than eight feet (8'); and
   C.   Removal: Such signs shall be removed upon the installation of either a
landscaped subdivision identification sign, or as otherwise required by
restrictions imposed by the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 92-30, 12-29-92)
11-5-4-2: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
"Temporary signs" as defined by this Title and for which a maintenance
agreement shall be provided for signs displayed more than thirty (30) days, and
otherwise meeting all other restrictions imposed by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
CHAPTER 6
BUSINESS USE DISTRICT SIGNS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Business Use District Signs
11-6-2: Setbacks
11-6-3: Permitted Signs
11-6-3-1: Construction Sign
11-6-3-2: Freestanding Identification Sign
11-6-3-3: Incidental Signs
11-6-3-4: Monument Sign
11-6-3-5: Political or Noncommercial Signs
11-6-3-6: Real Estate Sign
11-6-3-7: Shopping Center Signs
11-6-3-8: Wall Signs
11-6-4: Special Permit Signs
11-6-4-1: Developer's Sign
11-6-4-2: Electronic Changeable Message Sign
11-6-4-3: Temporary Signs
11-6-1: BUSINESS USE DISTRICT SIGNS:
In addition to the general provisions of this Title, all signs shall meet the
following standards provided herein. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-6-2: SETBACKS:
Permitted signs may be located in any required yard, but shall be not less than
five feet (5') from any lot line adjacent to any street, nor less than ten feet
(10') from any other lot line (see Figure
11-6-2:A, set out in Section
11-9-3). (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91).
11-6-3: PERMITTED SIGNS:
Signs permitted without a special permit include only the following and no
others: (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-6-3-1: CONSTRUCTION SIGN:
One single or double face freestanding unilluminated sign per lot, which shall
meet the following standards (see Figure
11-6-3-1:A, set out in Section
11-9-3):
   A.   Surface Area: The surface area of the sign shall not exceed sixteen
(16) square feet per face;
   B.   Height: The sign shall be not more than eight feet (8') high; and
   C.   Removal: The sign shall be removed within ten (10) days following
occupancy of the building. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-6-3-2: FREESTANDING IDENTIFICATION SIGN:
One freestanding identification sign only shall be permitted per lot, or per
shopping center with an aggregate floor area of less than ten thousand (10,000)
square feet. For larger shopping centers, see Section
11-6-3-7. Such signs may be illuminated and shall meet the following standards
(see Figure
11-6-3-2:A, set out in Section
11-9-3):
   A.   Location: These signs shall only be permitted on a lot bordering the
U.S. Interstate 94 (Tri-State Tollway) R.O.W. and the Illinois Route 176
(Rockland Road) R.O.W.;
   B.   Surface Area: The sign shall not exceed forty eight (48) square feet
for single face signs, or a total of ninety six (96) square feet for double or
multi face signs; and
   C.   Height: The sign shall not be higher than eighteen feet (18') nor less
than ten feet (10') high. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91; amd. Ord. 2022-O-21, 10-26-
2022)
11-6-3-3: INCIDENTAL SIGNS:
Up to two (2) single or double face signs per lot which may be illuminated.
Such signs shall be attached to any permitted freestanding identification sign,
wall sign, or other permanent structure. The surface area per face of any such
sign shall not exceed five (5) square feet. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-6-3-4: MONUMENT SIGN:
One sign only shall be permitted per lot and may be in lieu of, but not in
addition to a freestanding identification sign. Such signs may be illuminated
and shall meet the following standards (see Figure
11-6-3-4:A, set out in Section
11-9-3):
   A.   Frontage: These signs may front any street;
   B.   Surface Area: The surface area of a single face sign shall not exceed
forty-eight (48) square feet, or a cumulative total of ninety-six (96) square
feet for double or multiple face signs;
   C.   Height: Such signs shall not be higher than ten feet (10') above the
ground at the base of the sign, nor fifteen feet (15') above the level of the
street or driveway nearest the sign, whichever is less; and
   D.   Width: Such signs shall not have any face greater than ten feet (10')
in width. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91; amd. Ord. 2022-O-21, 10-26-2022)
11-6-3-5: POLITICAL OR NONCOMMERCIAL SIGNS:
Any number of signs, which shall not exceed six (6) square feet of surface area
per sign, nor a cumulative total surface area of thirty six (36) square feet
per lot. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-6-3-6: REAL ESTATE SIGN:
One single or double face freestanding unilluminated sign per street frontage
of a lot, and meeting the following standards (see Figure
11-6-3-6:A, set out in Section
11-9-3):
   A.   Surface Area: The surface area of such signs shall not exceed thirty
two (32) square feet per face;
   B.   Height: Such signs shall not be higher than twelve feet (12'); and
   C.   Removal: These signs shall be removed within thirty (30) days following
the sale or lease of the property, or after reaching ninety five percent (95%)
occupancy of the building. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-6-3-7: SHOPPING CENTER SIGNS:
For shopping centers only, which have an aggregate floor area of ten thousand
(10,000) square feet or more, the following signs are permitted in addition to
signs otherwise allowed in a business use district:
   A.   Entrance or Exit Monument Signs: One freestanding single or double face
sign at each driveway entrance or exit, which may be illuminated, and which
shall meet the following standards (see Figure
11-6-3-7:A, set out in Section
11-9-3):
      1.   Surface Area: The surface area of any sign shall not exceed eight
(8) square feet per face; and
      2.   Height: Such signs shall not be higher than six feet (6') above the
level of the street or driveway nearest the sign.
   B.   Monument Sign - Shopping Center: If the shopping center fronts on more
than one public street, then one sign may be permitted on each street, but not
more than two (2) signs in total. These signs may be illuminated and shall meet
the following standards (see Figure 11-6-3-7:B, set out in Section
11-9-3 ):
      1.   Frontage: Such signs may front on any adjacent street, which
provides direct ingress or egress to the shopping center;
      2.   Surface Area: The surface area of a single sign on a lot shall not
exceed ninety six (96) square feet per face or more than a cumulative total of
one hundred ninety two (192) square feet for double or multiple face signs. If
two (2) signs are provided, the surface area of any sign shall not exceed forty
eight (48) square feet per sign face or more than a cumulative total of ninety
six (96) square feet for double or multiple face signs; and
      3.   Height: Such signs shall not be higher than eighteen feet (18')
above the nearest street.
   C.   Monument Sign Out Lot: One sign shall be permitted on any “out lot”,
which is both contiguous to the shopping center and contains at least twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet of land area. Such signs may be illuminated and
shall meet the same standards for monument signs set forth in Section
11-6-3-4 . (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91; amd. Ord. 2022-O-21, 10-26-2022)
11-6-3-8: WALL SIGNS:
Wall signs, which includes "projecting wall signs" and "canopy and marquee wall
signs" may be illuminated and shall meet the following standards:
   A.   Surface Area: The cumulative total surface area of all wall signs on
any wall shall not exceed one and one-half (11/2) square feet of sign area per
lineal foot of store frontage on that wall;
   B.   Height and Clearance: Such signs shall meet the standards set forth in
the general provisions of this Title, Section
11-4-4; and
   C.   Canopy and Marquee Wall Signs: Such signs shall be considered part of
the cumulative total permitted surface area for wall signs. Projecting wall
signs are not permitted on any canopy or marquee. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-6-4: SPECIAL PERMIT SIGNS:
A special permit sign shall be any sign approved by the Board of Trustees upon
granting of a special permit. Such signs shall be installed completely on
private property and shall be subject to the restrictions imposed by the Board
of Trustees. Special permit signs in business use districts include the
following: (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-6-4-1: DEVELOPERS'S SIGN:
One unilluminated freestanding single or double face sign facing each street
adjacent to the lot or subdivision and which shall also meet the business use
district setback standards as well as the following requirements (see Figure
11-6-4-1:A, set out in Section
11-9-3):
   A.   Surface Area: The surface area of such signs shall not be greater than
thirty two (32) square feet per face;
   B.   Height: Such signs shall not be higher than twelve feet (12') above the
nearest street; and
   C.   Removal: Such signs shall be removed upon the installation of either a
real estate sign, freestanding identification sign, or as otherwise required by
restrictions imposed by the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-6-4-2: ELECTRONIC CHANGEABLE MESSAGE SIGN:
   A.   Surface Area: Electronic changeable message sign shall not exceed fifty
percent (50%) the allowed sign area of a monument sign or thirty (30) square
feet, whichever is less.
   B.   Quantity: Only one sign shall be allowed per lot or shopping center;
   C.   Minimum Right-of-way Frontage: The lot or shopping center on which the
sign is to be located shall have a minimum of one hundred (100) continuous feet
of R.O.W. frontage along its front lot line;
   D.   Location: The sign may only be located on a lot or shopping center
bordering the Illinois Route 176 (Rockland Road) R.O.W., the North Shore Bike
Path R.O.W., or the Illinois Route 43 R.O.W. (Waukegan Road);
   E.   Prohibition Next to A Residential Use District: The sign is prohibited
on any lot bordering, inclusive of R.O.W., a residential use district if any
part of the sign would be visible from within a residence in the residential
use district;
   F.   Message Content Shall Remain Static: The message content of the sign
shall remain static and unchanging for a period of no less than fifteen (15)
seconds;
   G.   Advertisements: The sign may only be used to advertise services and
products available at the businesses located on the premises, noncommercial
messages from not-for-profit or governmental organizations located within the
Village, and advertisements for public meetings and noncommercial public events
in the Village;
   H.   Prohibition for Flashing Lights, Animation, or Video: The message shall
not consist of flashing, scintillating, chasing, or animated lights. The
message shall not include animated pictorial graphics or live motion video;
   I.   Illumination: The illumination of the sign shall not exceed an
intensity of 0.5 foot-candle as measured with a portable handheld sensor at
either the property line or ten (10) feet from the sign, whichever is lesser.
measurements shall be taken not less than three and one-half (3 ½) feet above
the ground line in a vertical position and vertical readings at heights greater
than three and one-half (3 ½) feet may be required pursuant to the direction of
the Building Commissioner;
   J.   Auditory Prohibition: The sign shall not include sound or auditory
components;
   K.   Dimming: The sign shall incorporate automatic dimmer software or solar
sensors that limit maximum brightness settings to five thousand (5,000) nits
during daylight and to five hundred (500) nits between dusk and dawn. If the
Village finds that the sign causes glare or otherwise impairs the vision of a
motor vehicle driver or creates a nuisance condition on surrounding lots, the
owner of the sign, within twenty four (24) hours of a request by the Village,
shall reduce the intensity of the sign to a level acceptable to the Village;
   L.   Sign Operating Hours: The sign shall only operate between one- half (½)
hour before the premises are opened or six o’clock (6:00) A.M., whichever is
later, and one-half (½) hour after the premises is closed to the public or
eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M., whichever is earlier;
   M.   Repairs: If at any time, more than thirty percent (30%) of the display
lights malfunction or are no longer working, the owner of the sign shall make
repairs to the sign within sixty (60) days or the sign will require removal.
The sign must be equipped with a default mechanism that will stop the messaging
or freeze the image in one position when a malfunction in electronic
programming occurs;
   N.   Conforming Signs: All signs on the lot must be in conformance with
Title 11, Sign Regulations of the Village Code; and
   O.   Departures: The Board of Trustees may grant departures from the above
listed standards based on evidence that such departures will not negatively
impact public safety, community character, property values, or the general
welfare of the area surrounding the proposed sign and the Village as a whole.
(Ord. 2022-O-21, 10-26-2022)
11-6-4-3: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
“Temporary signs” as defined by this Title and for which a maintenance
agreement shall be provided for signs displayed more than thirty (30) days, and
otherwise meeting all other restrictions imposed by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91; amd. Ord. 2022-O-21, 10-26-2022)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICE AND INDUSTRIAL USE DISTRICTS SIGNS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Office and Industrial Use Districts Signs
11-7-2: Setbacks
11-7-3: Permitted Signs
11-7-3-1: Construction Sign
11-7-3-2: Directory Monument Sign
11-7-3-3: Monument Sign
11-7-3-4: Help Wanted Sign
11-7-3-5: Landscaped Subdivision Monument Sign
11-7-3-6: Political or Noncommercial Signs
11-7-3-7: Real Estate Sign
11-7-3-8: Wall Identification Sign
11-7-3-9: Freestanding Toll Road Identification Sign
11-7-4: Special Permit Signs
11-7-4-1: Developer's Sign
11-7-4-2: Electronic Changeable Message Sign
11-7-4-3: Temporary Signs
11-7-5: Billboards
11-7-1: OFFICE AND INDUSTRIAL USE DISTRICTS SIGNS:
In addition to the general provisions of this Title, all signs shall meet the
following standards provided herein. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-7-2: SETBACKS:
Permitted signs, other than billboards, may be located in any required yard,
but shall be not less than five feet (5') from any lot line adjacent to any
street, nor less than ten feet (10') from any other lot line. See Figure
11-6-2:A, Business Sign Setbacks set out in Section
11-9-3, which are the same for office and industrial signs. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-
91)
11-7-3: PERMITTED SIGNS:
Signs, including billboards, which are permitted without a special permit
include only the following and no others: (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-7-3-1: CONSTRUCTION SIGN:
One single or double face freestanding unilluminated sign per lot, which shall
meet the same standards set forth in Section
11-6-3-1. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-7-3-2: DIRECTORY MONUMENT SIGN:
One freestanding single or double face sign listing the name of the property
owner or tenants, which may be illuminated and shall meet the following
standards (see Figure 11-7-3-2:A, set out in Section 11-9-3):
   A.   Surface Area: The surface area of any face shall not exceed thirty (30)
square feet; and
   B.   Height: Such signs shall not exceed six feet (6') in height above the
grade of the nearest adjoining street or driveway. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91; amd.
Ord. 2022-O-21, 10-26-2022)
11-7-3-3: MONUMENT SIGN:
One single, double or multiple face sign per building frontage, which may be
illuminated and which shall meet the following standards (see Figure
11-7-3-3:A, set out in Section
11-9-3):
   A.   Surface Area: The surface area of any face shall not exceed thirty (30)
square feet nor a total cumulative area of sixty (60) square feet for double or
multiple face signs; and
   B.   Height: Such signs shall not exceed six feet (6') in height above the
nearest adjoining street or driveway. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91; amd. Ord. 2022-O-
21, 10-26-2022)
11-7-3-4: HELP WANTED SIGN:
One unilluminated single or double face freestanding sign for each occupied lot
advertising "Help Wanted" and which shall meet the following standards (see
Figure
11-7-3-4:A, set out in Section
11-9-3):
   A.   Surface Area: The surface area of any face shall not exceed twelve (12)
square feet; and
   B.   Height: The height of such signs shall not exceed six feet (6') above
the nearest adjoining street or driveway. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-7-3-5: LANDSCAPED SUBDIVISION MONUMENT SIGN:
One single, double or multiple face freestanding sign at each street entrance
to a subdivision for the sole purpose of displaying the name of the
subdivision. The sign may be illuminated and shall meet the following standards
(see Figure
11-7-3-5:A, set out in Section
11-9-3):
   A.   Surface Area: The surface area of any single face sign shall not exceed
ninety six (96) square feet, or one hundred ninety two (192) square feet of
cumulative total surface area for any double or multiple face sign;
   B.   Height: Such signs shall not exceed eighteen feet (18') in height above
the grade of the street or driveway closest to the sign; and
   C.   Easement: Any such sign shall be located within a permanent easement
for the sign and landscaping. The easement shall include provisions for the
continued maintenance of the sign and landscaping, and shall be recorded as
part of the plat of subdivision. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91; amd. Ord. 2022-O-21, 10-
26-2022)
11-7-3-6: POLITICAL OR NONCOMMERCIAL SIGNS:
Any number of signs, which shall not exceed six (6) square feet of surface area
per sign, nor a cumulative total surface area of thirty six (36) square feet
per lot. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-7-3-7: REAL ESTATE SIGN:
One single or double face freestanding unilluminated sign facing each street
frontage of a lot, and meeting the same standards set forth in Section
11-6-3-6. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-7-3-8: WALL IDENTIFICATION SIGN:
One "wall sign" per building frontage as defined in this Title, which may be
illuminated and subject to the following standards:
   A.   Surface Area: The surface area of any wall sign shall not exceed five
percent (5%) of the area of the building frontage wall, nor one hundred (100)
square feet, whichever is less; and
   B.   Height: The height of any wall sign shall conform to the standards set
forth in the general provisions, Section
11-4-4. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-7-3-9: FREESTANDING TOLL ROAD IDENTIFICATION SIGN:
One single or double face sign per forty (40) acre single user site fronting on
the I-94 toll road, which may be illuminated and which shall meet the following
standards (see Figure
11-7-3-9:A, set out in Section
11-9-3):
   A.   Surface Area: The surface area of any face shall not exceed four
hundred fifty (450) square feet; and
   B.   Height: Such signs shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height above
the level of the adjacent toll road pavement nearest to the sign;
   C.   Setbacks: Toll road identification signs shall meet the following
setbacks:
      1.   Three hundred feet (300') from any residential use district; and
      2.   Twenty five feet (25') from any public street or road right of way
other than the toll road; and
      3.   No less than five feet (5') or no greater than one hundred feet
(100') from the toll road right of way; and
      4.   One hundred feet (100') from any other property line.
   D.   Spacing: Toll road identification signs shall be at least one thousand
two hundred feet (1,200') away from any other toll road identification sign or
billboard along the same side of the toll road.
   E.   Single User Site: A "single user site" is defined as being a tract of
land comprising one or more contiguous lots or parcels owned by a single owner
upon which that owner or his lessee conducts a single business activity.
   F.   Trade Logos: Brand names, trade symbols or logos of any business or
company, other than the user of the site, shall not be permitted, except that
such trade logos of a company not located on the site may comprise not more
than ten percent (10%) of any sign face for signs donated by that company to a
not-for-profit single user of the site. (Ord. 92-15, 6-17-92)
11-7-4: SPECIAL PERMIT SIGNS:
A special permit sign shall be any sign approved by the Board of Trustees upon
granting of a special permit. Such signs shall be installed completely on
private property and shall be subject to the restrictions imposed by the Board
of Trustees. Special permit signs in office and industrial use districts
include the following: (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-7-4-1: DEVELOPER'S SIGN:
One unilluminated freestanding single or double face sign facing each street
adjacent to the lot or subdivision and which shall also meet the office and
industrial use district setback standards and the following requirements (see
Section
11-9-3, Figure
11-6-4-1:A, Business Developer's Sign, which are the same for the office and
industrial use districts):
   A.   Surface Area: The surface area of such signs shall not be greater than
thirty two (32) square feet per face;
   B.   Height: Such signs shall not be higher than twelve feet (12'); and
   C.   Removal: Such signs shall be removed upon the installation of either a
real estate sign, freestanding identification sign, or as otherwise required by
restrictions imposed by the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-7-4-2: ELECTRONIC CHANGEABLE MESSAGE SIGN:
   A.   Surface Area: Electronic changeable message sign shall not exceed fifty
percent (50%) the allowed sign area of a monument sign or thirty (30) square
feet, whichever is less;
   B.   Quantity: Only one sign shall be allowed per lot or unified
development, such as an industrial park under common ownership;
   C.   Minimum Right-of-way Frontage: The lot or unified development on which
the sign is to be located shall have a minimum of one hundred (100) continuous
feet of R.O.W. frontage along its front lot line;
   D.   Location: The sign may only be located on a lot or unified development
bordering the Illinois Route 176 (Rockland Road) R.O.W., the North Shore Bike
Path R.O.W., or the Illinois Route 43 R.O.W. (Waukegan Road);
   E.   Prohibition Next to A Residential Use District: The sign is prohibited
on any lot bordering, inclusive of R.O.W., a residential use district if any
part of the sign would be visible from within a residence in the residential
use district;
   F.   Message Content Shall Remain Static: The message content of the sign
shall remain static and unchanging for a period of no less than fifteen (15)
seconds;
   G.   Advertisements: The sign may only be used to advertise services and
products available at the businesses located on the premises, noncommercial
messages from not-for-profit or governmental organizations located within the
Village, and advertisements for public meetings and noncommercial public events
in the Village;
   H.   Prohibition for Flashing Lights, Animation, or Video: The message shall
not consist of flashing, scintillating, chasing, or animated lights. The
message shall not include animated pictorial graphics or live motion video;
   I.   Illumination: The illumination of the sign shall not exceed an
intensity of 0.5 foot-candle as measured with a portable handheld sensor at
either the property line or ten (10) feet from the sign, whichever is lesser.
measurements shall be taken not less than three and one-half (3 ½) feet above
the ground line in a vertical position and vertical readings at heights greater
than three and one-half (3 ½) feet may be required pursuant to the direction of
the Building Commissioner;
   J.   Auditory Prohibition: The sign shall not include sound or auditory
components;
   K.   Dimming: The sign shall incorporate automatic dimmer software or solar
sensors that limit maximum brightness settings to five thousand (5,000) nits
during daylight and to five hundred (500) nits between dusk and dawn. If the
Village finds that the sign causes glare or otherwise impairs the vision of a
motor vehicle driver or creates a nuisance condition on surrounding lots, the
owner of the sign, within twenty four (24) hours of a request by the Village,
shall reduce the intensity of the sign to a level acceptable to the Village;
   L.   Sign Operating Hours: The sign shall only operate between one- half (½)
hour before the premises are opened or six o’clock (6:00) A.M., whichever is
later, and one-half (½) hour after the premises is closed to the public or
eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M., whichever is earlier;
   M.   Repairs: If at any time, more than thirty percent (30%) of the display
lights malfunction or are no longer working, the owner of the sign shall make
repairs to the sign within sixty (60) days or the sign will require removal.
The sign must be equipped with a default mechanism that will stop the messaging
or freeze the image in one position when a malfunction in electronic
programming occurs;
   N.   Conforming Signs: All signs on the lot must be in conformance with
Title 11, Sign Regulations of the Village Code; and
   O.   Departures: The Board of Trustees may grant departures from the above
listed standards based on evidence that such departures will not negatively
impact public safety, community character, property values, or the general
welfare of the area surrounding the proposed sign and the Village as a whole.
(Ord. 2022-O-21, 10-26-2022)
11-7-4-3: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
“Temporary signs” as defined by this Title and for which a maintenance
agreement shall be provided for signs displayed more than thirty (30) days, and
otherwise meeting all other restrictions imposed by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91; amd. Ord. 2022-O-21, 10-26-2022)
11-7-5: BILLBOARDS:
Billboards shall be permitted in the office and industrial use districts on
unimproved lots only and shall comply with all the following standards (see
Figure
11-7-5:A):
   A.   Number: Not more than one single face sign for a lot of six hundred
feet (600') of frontage or less and one additional single face sign for each
six hundred feet (600') of additional frontage;
   B.   Spacing: Single faced signs shall be at least six hundred feet (600')
from any other billboard. Back-to-back double face signs shall be at least one
thousand two hundred feet (1,200') from any other billboard;
   C.   Height and Length: Billboards shall be limited to twenty five feet
(25') in maximum height and length;
   D.   Surface Area: Billboards shall be limited to two hundred eighty four
(284) square feet in surface area per face;
   E.   Setbacks: Billboards shall be set back as follows:
      1.   One hundred fifty feet (150') from any adjoining residential use
district; and
      2.   Three hundred feet (300') from any residential use district if any
face is visible from the district; and
      3.   Twenty five feet (25') from any public street or road right of way;
and
      4.   Ten feet (10') from any other property line. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
CHAPTER 8
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
11-8-1: Inspection and Removal of Certain Signs
11-8-2: Bond Requirements
11-8-3: Design Review
11-8-4: Variations, Appeals and Special Permits
11-8-5: Penalty
11-8-6: Nonconforming Signs
11-8-7: Separability
11-8-1: INSPECTION AND REMOVAL OF CERTAIN SIGNS:
   A.   Unsafe Signs:
      1.   If the Building Commissioner shall find that any sign regulated
herein is unsafe, insecure or has been constructed or erected in violation of
the provisions of this Title, he or his authorized representative shall give
written notice to the permittee thereof.
      2.   If the permittee fails to remove, relocate or alter the sign so as
to comply with the standards herein set forth within ten (10) days after such
notice, such sign may be removed by the Building Commissioner or his designated
agent at the expense of the permittee or owner of the property upon which it is
located.
      3.   The Building Commissioner shall refuse to issue a permit to any
permittee or owner who refuses to pay costs so assessed.
      4.   The Building Commissioner or his designated agent may cause any sign
improperly placed on public property or which is an immediate peril or
endangerment to persons or property to be removed immediately and without
notice.
   B.   Abandoned Signs:
      1.   Any sign now or hereafter existing which has been abandoned, fallen
into disuse, or which no longer advertises a bona fide business conducted,
product sold or service rendered, shall be removed by the owner, agent or
person having the beneficial use of the building, structure or lot upon which
the sign is located within ten (10) days after written notification from the
Building Commissioner or his authorized representative.
      2.   Upon failure to comply with such notice within the time specified in
such order, the Building Commissioner or his designated agent is hereby
authorized to cause removal of such sign, and any expense incident thereto
shall be paid by the owner of the building, structure or lot upon which such
sign is located.
   C.   Advertising Bench:
      1.   Any advertising bench or sign which is erected or has been
previously erected within the Village on any Village, County or State right of
way without the permission of the appropriate local or State agency and for
which no permit was issued by the Village, shall be deemed to be a nuisance.
      2.   In such case the Building Commissioner or his authorized
representative shall give written notice to the owner of such sign or bench or
if the owner is unknown, by posting such notice to the sign or bench, advising
that said sign or bench is in violation of this Title and must be removed
within ten (10) days from the notice date.
      3.   Any bench or sign which is not removed within said time period shall
be removed and stored by the Village and any such expense incident thereto
shall be paid by the owner thereof.
      4.   If the owner fails to claim said sign or bench within sixty (60)
days from the date of removal, the Village may cause said sign or bench to be
destroyed or otherwise disposed of same. In such event the owner shall remain
responsible for all costs associated with the removal, storage and disposal of
such sign or bench. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91)
11-8-2: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A person engaged in the business of constructing and erecting
billboards or signs shall file with the Building Department a bond in the penal
sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) with a responsible surety company as
surety thereon. Said bond shall be approved as to form by the village attorney.
   B.   Said bond shall indemnify the village and its officials, for the full
period of time provided for by the statute of limitations of the state, for any
and all loss, costs, expenses or liability of any kind or nature whatsoever,
which said village or its officials may suffer or be put to, or which may be
recovered from it or them by reason of the issuance of a sign erection permit.
This requirement shall not apply to any individual, business or corporation
constructing and erecting a sign for his or their own personal use. (Ord. 91-
06, 8-28-1991)
11-8-3: DESIGN REVIEW:
   A.   All signs erected in the business, office and industrial use districts
shall be submitted to the plan commission of the village for design review.
   B.   The plan commission shall submit its design review report and
recommendation to the village board.
   C.   The village board shall thereafter review the report and recommendation
of the plan commission and make the final approval of the design.
   D.   No sign erection permit in the business, office and industrial use
districts shall be issued by the building department without the design
approval of the village board.
   E.   Applications for all design reviews shall be made upon forms provided
by the building department. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-1991)
11-8-4: VARIATIONS, APPEALS AND SPECIAL PERMITS:
   A.   All request for variations in the requirements herein set forth or
appeals from any rulings of any officer of the village or for special permits
as herein set forth shall be directed to the village board.
   B.   Applications for all said variations, appeals or special permits shall
be made upon forms provided by the building department. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-1991)
11-8-5: PENALTY:
Any person, violating or failing to comply with any provision of this title
shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation or failure to comply occurs or continues to exist. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-
1991; amd. Ord. 2001-O-05, 3-28-2001)
11-8-6: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
Any sign lawfully existing or under construction on the adoption date of this
title which does not conform to the provisions contained herein, may continue
to be maintained, but may not be replaced, structurally altered, reestablished
if discontinued or continued if destroyed or damaged to the extent of fifty
percent (50%) or more of its value. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-1991)
11-8-7: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this title
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-1991)
CHAPTER 9
APPENDICES
SECTION:
11-9-1: Appendix A, References
11-9-2: Appendix B, Sign Permit Application Form
11-9-3: Appendix C, Figures
11-9-1: APPENDIX A, REFERENCES:
Appearance Codes for Small Communities, Peggy Glassford, American Planning
Association Report No. 379, Chicago, Illinois.
BOCA Basic National Building Code/1984, Building Officials and Code
Administrators, Inc., Country Club Hill, Illinois.
Green Oaks Area Existing Signs 9/1990 (Photographs), Gerald Estes, Green Oaks,
Illinois.
Guideline Sign Code, 1988, National Electric Sign Association, Alexandria,
Virginia.
Model Sign Ordinance, 1978 edition, Illinois Sign Association, Chicago,
Illinois.
Municipal Banner Systems, (brochure, undated), Kalamazoo Banner Works,
Kalamazoo, Michigan.
Office Development Handbook, 1982 edition, Urban Land Institute, Washington,
DC.
Shopping Center Development Handbook, 1985 edition, Urban Land Institute,
Washington, DC.
Sign Ordinance of Lake County, Illinois, as amended March 12, 1968, Lake County
Board of Supervisors, Waukegan, Illinois.
Sign Regulations, Eric Damian Kelley and Gary J. Rasa, American Planning
Association Report No. 419, Chicago, Illinois.
Signage: Planning Environmental Visual Communication, Karen E. Claus and R.
James Claus, U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development, Policy Development
and Research Division, Chicago, Illinois, 1976.
Sign, An Illustrated Guide 9/15/1990, Gerald Estes, Green Oaks, Illinois.
Street Graphics and the Law, Daniel R. Mandelker and William R. Ewald, 1988
edition, American Planning Association, Chicago, Illinois.
A Unified Development Ordinance, Michael B. Brough, 1985, American Planning
Association, Chicago, Illinois.
Zoning Handbook for Municipal Officials with Suggested Forms, 1986, Ronald S.
Cope, Illinois Municipal League. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-1991)
11-9-2: APPENDIX B, SIGN PERMIT APPLICATION FORM:
Sign Erection Permit Applications available at the Village of Green Oaks:
2020 O'Plaine Road
Green Oaks, Illinois 60048
Questions, please contact the Village at 847-362-5363. (Per correspondence
dated 8-22-2019)
11-9-3: APPENDIX C, FIGURES:
   FIGURE
11-2-2:A
   Building Frontage
Building frontage shall mean the horizontal width of a building fronting on a
street and measured between lines perpendicular to the street or perpendicular
to the cord line of a curved street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2109.gif]
   FIGURE
11-2-2:B
   Store Frontage
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2111.gif]
 
Store frontage shall mean the length of any wall of a store which fronts a
street, customer parking area or customer entrance, but not including exterior
walls of service and loading areas.
   FIGURE
11-4-4:A
   Wall Sign Requirements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2113.gif]
 
   
All wall signs shall not be higher than the facia or parapet line of the
building, canopy or marquee to which they are attached. Except for wall signs
which are completely flush with the wall surface, the minimum clearance below
wall signs shall be ten feet (10') above any pedestrian walkway, fifteen feet
(15') above any driveway or road, nor below the soffit line of any canopy or
marquee. Wall signs located over landscaping features shall be three feet (3')
minimum above the grade level below said sign.
   FIGURE
11-4-5:B
   Clear Vision Requirements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2115.gif]
 
No sign which obstructs sight lines at elevations between eighteen inches (18")
and six feet (6') above the roadway shall be placed or permitted to remain on
any corner lot within the triangular area formed by the street property corner
lines connecting them at points fifty feet (50') from the intersection of the
street lines, or in the case of a rounded corner, from the intersection of the
street property lines extended. The same sight line limitations regarding
height shall apply on any interior lot within the triangular area formed by the
street property line and the edge of the driveway and the line connecting them
at points ten feet (10') from the intersection of the property line and the
driveway.
   FIGURE
11-5-2:A
   Residential Sign Setbacks
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2117.gif]
 
Permitted signs may be located in any required yard, but shall not be less than
eight feet (8') from any lot line adjacent to any street, nor less than five
feet (5') from any other lot line.
   FIGURE
11-5-3-1:A
   Residential Construction Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2119.gif]
 
One single or double face freestanding unilluminated sign per lot, which shall
meet the following standards: the surface area of the sign shall not exceed
twelve (12) square feet per face; the sign shall be not more than eight feet
(8') high; and the sign shall be removed within ten (10) days following
occupancy of the building.
   FIGURE
11-5-3-2:A
   Residential Identification Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2121.gif]
 
One single or double face freestanding sign or one wall sign per building
frontage per building, either of which may be illuminated, for each permitted
public use or similar institutional building. Such signs shall be solely for
the purpose of displaying the name of the institution or its activities or
services, and shall meet the following standards: the surface area of such
signs shall not be greater than twenty five (25) square feet per sign face; and
the height of a freestanding sign shall not be higher than ten feet (10').
   FIGURE
11-5-3-3:A
   Residential Landscaped Subdivision Identification Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2123.gif]
 
One single or double face unilluminated freestanding sign at each street
entrance to a subdivision for the sole purpose of displaying the name of the
subdivision, and which shall meet the following standards: the surface area of
such signs shall not be greater than twelve (12) square feet per face; and the
height of such sign shall not be higher than six feet (6') above the ground at
the base of the sign, nor higher than ten feet (10') above the edge of the
street pavement nearest the sign, whichever is less.
   FIGURE
11-5-3-6:A
   Residential Real Estate Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2125.gif]
 
One single or double face unilluminated freestanding sign facing each street
frontage of a lot, and meeting the following standards: the surface area of
such signs shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet per face; and such signs
shall not be higher than six feet (6').
   FIGURE
11-5-4-1:A
   Residential Developer's Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2127.gif]
 
One unilluminated freestanding single or double faced sign facing only one
street of a subdivision, and which shall also meet the residential use
districts setback standards as well as the following requirements: the surface
area of such signs shall not be greater than thirty two (32) square feet per
face; and such signs shall not be higher than eight feet (8').
   FIGURE
11-6-2:A
   Business Sign Setbacks
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2129.gif]
 
Permitted signs may be located in any required yard, but shall be not less than
five feet (5') from any lot line adjacent to any street, nor less than ten feet
(10') from any other lot line.
   FIGURE
11-6-3-1:A
   Business Construction Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2131.gif]
 
One single or double face freestanding unilluminated sign per lot, which shall
meet the following standards: the surface area of the sign shall not exceed
sixteen (16) square feet per face; and the sign shall be not more than eight
feet (8') high.
   FIGURE
11-6-3-2:A
   Business Freestanding Identification Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2401.png]
 
One freestanding identification sign only shall be permitted per lot bordering
the U.S. Interstate 94 (Tri-State Tollway) R.O.W. and the Illinois Route 176
(Rockland Road) R.O.W. Such signs may be illuminated and shall meet the
following standards: the signs, shall not exceed forty eight (48) square feet
for single face signs, nor a cumulative total of ninety six (96) square feet
for double or multiple face signs; and the sign shall not be higher than
eighteen feet (18') nor less than ten feet (10') high.
   FIGURE
11-6-3-4:A
   Business Monument Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2399.png]
 
One sign only shall be permitted per lot and may be illuminated and shall meet
the following standards: the surface area of a single face sign shall not
exceed forty-eight (48) square feet, or a cumulative total of ninety-six (96)
square feet for double or multiple face signs; such signs shall not be higher
than ten feet (10') above the ground at the base of the sign, nor fifteen feet
(15') above the level of the street or driveway nearest the sign, whichever is
less; and such signs shall not have any face greater than ten feet (10') in
width.
   FIGURE
11-6-3-6:A
   Business Real Estate Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2137.gif]
 
One single or double face freestanding unilluminated sign per street frontage
of a lot, and meeting the following standards: the surface area of such signs
shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet per face; and such signs shall not
be higher than twelve feet (12').
   FIGURE
11-6-3-7:A
   Shopping Center Entrance and Exit Monument Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2139.gif]
 
One freestanding single or double face sign at each driveway entrance or exit,
which may be illuminated, and which shall meet the following standards: the
surface of any sign shall not exceed eight (8) square feet per face; and such
signs shall not be higher than six feet (6') above the street or driveway
nearest the sign.
   FIGURE
11-6-3-7:B
   Shopping Center Monument Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2403.png]
 
If the shopping center fronts on more than one public street, then one sign may
be permitted on each street, but not more than two (2) signs in total. These
signs may be illuminated and shall meet the following standards: the surface
area of a single sign on a lot shall not exceed ninety six (96) square feet per
face nor more than a cumulative total of one hundred ninety two (192) square
feet for double or multiple face signs. If two (2) signs are provided, the
surface area of any sign shall not exceed forty eight (48) square feet per sign
face nor more than a cumulative total of ninety six (96) square feet for double
or multiple face signs; and such signs shall not be higher than eighteen feet
(18') nor less than ten feet (10') above the level of the street nearest the
sign.
    FIGURE
11-6-4-1:A
   Business Developer's Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2143.gif]
 
One unilluminated freestanding single or double face sign facing each street
adjacent to the lot or subdivision and which shall also meet the following
standards: the surface area of such sign shall not be greater than thirty two
(32) square feet per face; and such signs shall not be higher than twelve feet
(12').
   FIGURE
11-7-3-2:A
   Office and Industrial Directory Monument Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2405.png]
 
One freestanding single or double face sign listing the name of the property
owner or tenants, which may be illuminated and shall meet the following
standards: the surface area of any face shall not exceed thirty (30) square
feet; and such signs shall not exceed six feet (6') in height above the grade
of the nearest adjoining street or driveway.
   FIGURE
11-7-3-3:A
   Office and Industrial Monument Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2407.png]
 
One single, double or multiple face sign per building frontage, which may be
illuminated and which shall meet the following standards: the surface area of
any face shall not exceed thirty (30) square feet nor a total cumulative area
of sixty (60) square feet for double or multiple face signs; and such signs
shall not exceed six feet (6') in height above the nearest adjoining street or
driveway.
   FIGURE
11-7-3-4:A
   Office and Industrial Help Wanted Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2149.gif]
 
One unilluminated single or double face freestanding sign for each occupied lot
advertising "Help Wanted" and which shall meet the following standards: the
surface area of any face shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet; and the
height of such signs shall not exceed six feet (6') above the nearest adjoining
street or driveway.
   FIGURE
11-7-3-5:A
Office and Industrial Landscaped Subdivision
Monument Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2409.png]
 
One single, double or multiple face freestanding sign at each street entrance
to a subdivision for the sole purpose of displaying the name of the
subdivision. The sign may be illuminated and shall meet the following
standards: the surface area of any single face sign shall not exceed ninety six
(96) square feet, or one hundred ninety two (192) square feet of cumulative
total surface area for any double or multiple face sign; and such signs shall
not exceed eighteen feet (18') in height above the grade of the street or
driveway closest to the sign.
   FIGURE
11-7-3-9:A
   Office and Industrial Freestanding Toll
   Road Identification Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2153.gif]
 
One single or double face sign per forty (40) acre single use site, which may
be illuminated and which shall meet the following standards: the surface area
of any face shall not exceed four hundred fifty (450) square feet; such signs
shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height above the level of the adjacent
toll road pavement nearest to the sign; toll road identification signs shall
meet the following setbacks: three hundred feet (300') from any residential use
district; twenty five feet (25') from any public street or road right of way
other than the toll road; no less than five feet (5') or no greater than one
hundred feet (100') from the toll road right of way; and one hundred feet
(100') from any other property line. Toll road identification signs shall be at
least one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') away from any other toll road
identification sign or billboard along the same side of the toll road.
   FIGURE
11-7-5:A
   Billboards
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4d46468b5e3242301e46c5e8ac6a2c179b0baa23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2155.gif]
 
Billboards shall be permitted in the office and industrial use districts on
unimproved lots only and shall comply with all the following standards: not
more than one single face sign for a lot of six hundred feet (600') of frontage
or less and one additional single face sign for each six hundred feet (600') of
additional frontage; single faced signs shall be at least six hundred feet
(600') from any other billboard. Back- to-back double face signs shall be at
least one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') from any other billboard;
billboards shall be limited to twenty five feet (25') in maximum height and
length; and billboards shall be limited to two hundred eighty four (284) square
feet in surface area per face. (Ord. 91-06, 8-28-91; amd. Ord. 92-15, 6-17-92;
Ord. 92-30, 12-29-92; Ord. 2022-O-21, 10-26-2022)
TITLE 12
STORMWATER DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Stormwater Management Regulations
12-1-2: Penalty
12-1-1: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS:
The Lake County Watershed Development Ordinance, as most recently amended by
the County of Lake on July 11, 2023, is hereby adopted by reference and is in
full force and effect within the Village of Green Oaks and is found in its own
compilation.
   A.   The following more restrictive standards are hereby added to the
provisions of the Lake County Watershed Development Ordinance, as amended July
11, 2023, as adopted in SECTION I above where strike out () indicates deletion
of text and double underline (insert) indicates insertion of text:
      ARTICLE 5, Section 502.01:
      5.02   Release Rates and Discharges
         502.01   Unless otherwise specified in Appendix J: Watershed Specific
Release Rates, an SMC-adopted basin plan or floodplain study, the detention
volume required shall be calculated using a rating curve based on maximum
release rates of 0.04 cubic feet per second per acre for the 2-year, 24-hour
storm event and 0.15 cubic feet per second per acre for the 100-year, 24-hour
storm event. The release rate requirement shall apply to the hydrologically
disturbed area of the ownership parcel unless the Enforcement Officer
determines that specific locations of the ownership parcel have unique
circumstances such that the release rate shall apply to a broader or smaller
area. The release rate requirements shall only apply to developments listed in
300.06 and 300.07. The volume of detention required shall be based on storing
all the run-off from the site for the 100-year 24-hour storm event with zero
release. An SMC approved hydrograph producing run-off calculation method shall
be used to determine run-off volume.
      ARTICLE 5, Section 506.03:
         506.03 Overland Flow Paths
         D.   For overland flow paths with less than twenty (20) acres
tributary drainage area, all structures in parcels containing or adjoining to
an overland flow path or other high water level designation shall have a lowest
adjacent grade a minimum of one (1.0) foot above the design high water
elevation.
         E.   For overland flow paths with greater than or equal to twenty (20)
acres tributary drainage area but less than one hundred (100) acres, all
structures in parcels containing or adjoining to an overland flow path or other
high water level designation shall have a lowest adjacent grade a minimum of
two (2.0) feet above the design high water elevation.
      ARTICLE 6, Section 600.11:
      600.11   Earthen embankments shall be constructed with side slopes no
steeper than 4H:IV. Steeper slopes may be constructed with appropriate
stabilization as approved by the Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 2013-O-10, 8-28-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-O-15, 9-27-2025)
12-1-2: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or entity violating the terms and conditions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
with each and every day that the violation is allowed to exist constituting a
distinct and separate offense under the terms of this chapter. In addition, the
corporate authority may take whatever action it deems appropriate to enforce
the terms of this chapter, including an action for injunction. All attorney
fees and costs incurred by the municipality in enforcing the terms of this
chapter shall be paid by the violator. (Ord. 1999-O-24A, 10-27-1999)
CHAPTER 2
STORM SEWER SYSTEM AND FACILITIES REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Purpose; Intent
12-2-2: Definitions
12-2-3: Applicability
12-2-4: Responsibility For Administration
12-2-5: Compatibility With Other Regulations
12-2-6: Ultimate Responsibility
12-2-7: Discharge Prohibitions
12-2-8: Prohibition Of Illicit Connections
12-2-9: Watercourse Protection
12-2-10: Industrial Or Construction Activity Discharges
12-2-11: Compliance Monitoring
12-2-12: Requirement To Prevent, Control, And Reduce Stormwater Pollutants By
The Use Of Best Management Practices
12-2-13: Notification Of Spills
12-2-14: Violations, Enforcement, And Penalties
12-2-15: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
12-2-16: Enforcement Measures After Appeal
12-2-17: Cost Of Abatement Of The Violation
12-2-18: Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
12-2-19: Remedies Not Exclusive
12-2-1: PURPOSE; INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of the village of Green Oaks, Illinois (hereafter
sometimes referred to as the "village") through the regulation of nonstormwater
discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent practicable as
required by federal and state law. This chapter establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of pollutants into the village's municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the
national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit process. The
objectives of this chapter are:
   A.   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 by stormwater
discharges by any user.
   B.   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4.
   C.   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance,
monitoring, and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 3-20-2008)
12-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following shall mean:
AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: The village of Green Oaks, Illinois, its
designated officers, employees or agents designated to enforce this chapter.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
CLEAN WATER ACT: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC section 1251
et seq.) and any subsequent amendments thereto.
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY: Activities subject to NPDES construction permits. These
include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one acre or
more. Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing,
grading, excavating, and demolition.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
ILLEGAL DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the storm
drain system, except as exempted in section
12-2-7 of this chapter.
ILLICIT CONNECTIONS: Defined as either of the following:
   A.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface that
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including, but not
limited to, any conveyances that allow any nonstormwater discharge including
sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and
any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency, or
   B.   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land
use to the storm drain system that has not been documented in plans, maps, or
equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY: Activities subject to NPDES industrial stormwater permits
as defined in 40 CFR section 122.26(b)(14).
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEMS (MS4): The system of conveyances
(including sidewalks, roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels, or storm drains) owned and
operated by the village of Green Oaks and designed or used for collecting or
conveying stormwater, and that is not used for collecting or conveying sewage.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATIONS SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT: A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 USC section 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants
to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an
individual, group, or general areawide basis.
NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not
composed entirely of stormwater.
PERSON: Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner's agent or acting as the operator upon any premises.
POLLUTANT: Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage; fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Publicly owned facilities by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and
humanmade or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage
structures.
STORMWATER: Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water
from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN: A document which describes the best management
practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business to identify
sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or
reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance systems, and/
or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
WASTEWATER: Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 3-20-2008)
12-2-3: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system generated
on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by the
village of Green Oaks. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 3-20-2008)
12-2-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The village of Green Oaks shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
village of Green Oaks may be delegated in writing by the village of Green Oaks
to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of
the village of Green Oaks. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 3-20-2008)
12-2-5: COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER REGULATIONS:
This chapter is not intended to modify or repeal any other chapter, rule,
regulation, or other provision of law. The requirements of this chapter are in
addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other
provision of law, and where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions
different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other
provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or imposes higher
protective standards for human health or the environment shall control. (Ord.
2008-O-2, 3-20-2008)
12-2-6: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend or imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, or unauthorized discharge of pollutants. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 3-20-2008)
12-2-7: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Prohibition Of Illicit And Illegal Discharges: No person shall throw,
drain, or otherwise discharge, cause, or allow others under its control to
throw, drain, or otherwise discharge into the MS4 any pollutants or waters
containing any pollutants, other than stormwater. The commencement, conduct or
continuance of any illegal discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited
except as described as follows:
      1.   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing, landscape irrigation,
diverted stream flows, rising ground waters, uncontaminated ground water
infiltration, uncontaminated pumped ground water, discharges from potable water
sources, foundation drains, air conditioning condensation, irrigation water,
springs, water from crawl space pumps, footing drains, lawn watering,
individual residential car washing, flows from riparian habitats and wetlands,
dechlorinated swimming pool discharges, and street wash water.
      2.   Discharges or flow from firefighting, and other discharges specified
in writing by the village of Green Oaks as being necessary to protect public
health and safety.
      3.   Discharges associated with dye testing, however this activity
requires a verbal notification to the village of Green Oaks prior to the time
of the test.
      4.   The prohibition shall not apply to any nonstormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharge and administered under the authority of the United States
environmental protection agency (EPA), provided that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other
applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been
granted for any discharge to the storm drain system. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 3-20-2008)
12-2-8: PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT CONNECTIONS:
   A.   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
   B.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
   C.   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the person
connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection to
continue.
   D.   Improper connections in violation of this chapter must be disconnected
and redirected, if necessary, to an approved on site wastewater management
system or the sanitary sewer system upon approval of the village of Green Oaks.
   E.   Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans, maps or
equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm sewer system, shall be
located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of written
notice of violation from the village of Green Oaks requiring that such locating
be completed. Such notice will specify a reasonable time period within which
the location of the drain or conveyance is to be determined, that the drain or
conveyance be identified as storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other, and that the
outfall location or point of connection to the storm sewer system, sanitary
sewer system or other discharge point be identified. Results of these
investigations are to be documented and provided to the village of Green Oaks.
(Ord. 2008-O-2, 3-20-2008)
12-2-9: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION:
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 3-20-2008)
12-2-10: INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES:
Submission of NOI to village of Green Oaks:
   A.   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to
the village of Green Oaks prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
   B.   The operator of a facility, including construction sites, required to
have an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated with industrial
activity shall submit a copy of the notice of intent (NOI) to the village of
Green Oaks at the same time the operator submits the original notice of intent
to the EPA as applicable.
   C.   The copy of the notice of intent to discharge stormwater may be
delivered to the village of Green Oaks either in person or by mailing it to:
Village of Green Oaks
2020 O'Plaine Road
Green Oaks, IL 60048
   D.   A person commits an offense if the person operates a facility that is
discharging stormwater associated with industrial activity without having
submitted a copy of the notice of intent to do so to the village of Green Oaks.
(Ord. 2008-O-2, 3-20-2008)
12-2-11: COMPLIANCE MONITORING:
   A.   Right Of Entry; Inspection And Sampling: The village of Green Oaks
shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject to regulation under
this chapter as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this
chapter.
      1.   If a discharger has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger
shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the
village of Green Oaks.
      2.   Facility operators shall allow the village of Green Oaks ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purpose of inspection, sampling,
examination and copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an
NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional
duties as defined by state and federal law.
      3.   The village of Green Oaks shall have the right to set up on any
permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the village
of Green Oaks to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's
stormwater discharge.
      4.   The village of Green Oaks has the right to require the discharger to
install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and
monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to
measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their
accuracy.
      5.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the village of Green Oaks and shall
not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the
operator.
      6.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the village of Green Oaks access to
a permitted facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of
this chapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with an NPDES permit
to discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense
if the person denies the village of Green Oaks reasonable access to the
permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or
required by this chapter.
   B.   Search Warrants: If the village of Green Oaks has been refused access
to any part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and it is able
to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter
or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety,
and welfare of the community, then the village of Green Oaks may seek issuance
of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2008-O-2,
3-20-2008)
12-2-12: REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
Any person responsible for a property or premise that is, or may be, the source
of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said person's
expense, additional structural and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the further
discharge of pollutants to the MS4. Compliance with all terms and conditions of
a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with
industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliant with
the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater
management plan (SWMP) as necessary for compliance with requirements of the
NPDES permit. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 3-20-2008)
12-2-13: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the United
States, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials said person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of nonhazardous materials, said person shall notify the village of
Green Oaks in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next business
day. Notification in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice
addressed and mailed to the village of Green Oaks within two (2) business days
of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a
commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such
establishment shall also retain an on site written record of the discharge and
the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for
at least five (5) years. Failure to provide notification of a release as
provided above is a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 3-20-2008)
12-2-14: VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT, AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations: It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. Any
person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter,
may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section or may be
restrained by injunction or otherwise abated in a manner provided by law. In
the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or
public safety, the village of Green Oaks is authorized to enter upon the
subject private property, without giving prior notice, to take any and all
measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. The
village of Green Oaks is authorized to seek costs of the abatement as outlined
in section
12-2-17 of this chapter.
   B.   Warning Notice: When the village of Green Oaks finds that any person
has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, or any
order issued hereunder, the village of Green Oaks may serve upon that person a
written warning notice, specifying the particular violation believed to have
occurred and requesting the discharger to immediately investigate the matter
and to seek a resolution whereby any offending discharge will cease.
Investigation and/or resolution of the matter in response to the warning notice
in no way relieves the alleged violator of liability for any violations
occurring before or after receipt of the warning notice. Nothing in this
subsection shall limit the authority of the village of Green Oaks to take any
action, including emergency action or any other enforcement action, without
first issuing a warning notice.
   C.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the village of Green Oaks finds that a
person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this
chapter, the village of Green Oaks may order compliance by written notice of
violation to the responsible person.
      1.   The notice of violation shall contain:
         a.   The name and address of the alleged violator;
         b.   The address when available or a description of the building,
structure or land upon which the violation is occurring, or has occurred;
         c.   A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
         d.   A description of the remedial measures necessary to restore
compliance with this chapter and a time schedule for the completion of such
remedial action;
         e.   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be
assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed;
         f.   A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed
to the village of Green Oaks by filing a written notice of appeal within ten
(10) days of service of notice of violation; and
         g.   A statement specifying that, should the violator fail to restore
compliance within the established time schedule, the work will be done by a
designated governmental agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall be
charged to the violator.
      2.   Such notice may require without limitation:
         a.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
         b.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
         c.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease
and desist;
         d.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
         e.   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
         f.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   D.   Compensatory Action: In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and
remedies authorized by this chapter, the village of Green Oaks may impose upon
a violator alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling,
attendance at compliance workshops, creek cleanup, etc.
   E.   Emergency Cease And Desist Orders: When the village of Green Oaks finds
that any person has violated or, continues to violate, any provisions of this
chapter, or any order issued hereunder, or that the person's past violations
are likely to recur, and that the person's violation(s) has(have) caused or
contributed to an actual or threatened discharge to the MS4 or waters of the
United States which reasonably appears to present an imminent or substantial
endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or to the environment, the
village of Green Oaks may issue an order to the violator directing it
immediately to cease and desist all such violations and directing the violator
to:
      1.   Immediately comply with all requirements of this chapter and any
other applicable laws or regulations; and
      2.   Take such appropriate preventive action as may be needed to properly
address a continuing or threatened violation, including immediately halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge.
Any person notified of an emergency order directed to it under this subsection
shall immediately comply and stop or eliminate its endangering discharge. In
the event of a discharger's failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the
emergency order, the village of Green Oaks may take such steps as deemed
necessary to prevent or minimize harm to the MS4 or waters of the United
States, and/or endangerment to persons or to the environment, including
immediate termination of a facility's water supply, sewer connection, or other
municipal utility services. The village of Green Oaks may allow the person to
recommence its discharge when it has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
village of Green Oaks that the period of endangerment has passed, unless
further termination proceedings are initiated against the discharger under this
chapter. A person that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the cause of the harmful discharge and the measures taken to prevent
any future occurrence, to the village of Green Oaks within thirty (30) days of
receipt of the emergency order. Issuance of an emergency cease and desist order
shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the violator.
   F.   MS4 Suspension Due To Illicit Discharges In Emergency Situations: The
village of Green Oaks may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access
to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the village of Green Oaks may take such steps as deemed
necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United
States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   G.   MS4 Suspension Due To The Detection Of Illicit Discharge: Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
village of Green Oaks will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its
MS4 access. The violator may petition the village of Green Oaks for a
reconsideration and hearing.
A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises
terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the village
of Green Oaks.
   H.   Civil Penalties: In the event the alleged violator fails to take the
remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails to
cure the violations described therein within two (2) days, or such greater
period as the village of Green Oaks shall deem appropriate, after the village
of Green Oaks has taken one or more of the actions described above, the village
of Green Oaks, may impose a penalty not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) (depending on the severity of the violation and the level of
cooperation to remedy) for each and every day the violation remains unremedied
after receipt of the notice of violation.
   I.   Criminal Prosecution: Any person that has violated or continues to
violate this chapter shall be liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest
extent of the law, and shall be subject to a criminal penalty of seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each and every day the violation exists and/or
imprisonment for a period of time not to exceed one hundred eighty (180) days.
Each act of violation and each day upon which any violation shall occur shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 3-20-2008)
12-2-15: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal, in writing, the
determination of the village of Green Oaks. The notice of appeal must be
received by the village of Green Oaks within ten (10) days from the date of the
notice of violation. The notice of appeal shall clearly and specifically state
what portion or portions of the decision the appellant is appealing from.
Failure to appeal with the required written specificity shall be deemed a
waiver of those portions of the decision not specified. The village shall
appoint a hearing officer for purposes of hearing the appeal. The strict rules
of evidence in effect in the circuit courts shall not apply to the hearing.
Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate authority or his/her designee
shall take place within twenty (20) days from the date of receipt of the notice
of appeal. The decision on the appeal shall be final from and after its
issuance and the mailing or delivering a copy thereof to the appellant. An
appeal hereunder or pursuant to the administrative review act shall not toll
the effects of a continuing violation under the penalties provided for in this
chapter. An appeal to the village, to be heard by the village, shall stay the
enforcement of the order and penalty provided for in this chapter. An appeal
pursuant to the administrative review act shall not stay the enforcement of any
order and penalty provided for in this chapter. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 3-20-2008)
12-2-16: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL:
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within five (5) days
of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the
village of Green Oaks, then representatives of the village of Green Oaks may
enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to take any and all
measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall
be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in possession of any
premises to refuse to allow the government agency or designated contractor to
enter upon the premises for the purpose set forth above. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 3-20-
2008)
12-2-17: COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION:
Within ten (10) days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within ten (10) days. If the amount due is not paid within a
timely manner as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by
the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the amount due the
village shall be a special assessment against the property and shall also
constitute a lien on the real estate for the amount due.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become liable
to the village of Green Oaks by reason of such violation. The village of Green
Oaks may, but is not obligated to, determine the number of, and accept,
installment payments on any portion of fines and penalties due under this
chapter. Under no circumstances shall the number of installment payments exceed
twelve (12) or the obligation to make the installment payments be permitted to
run for more than twelve (12) months from the date the fines or penalties
become final.
Interest on unpaid fines and penalties shall be at the rate of interest
established by the state legislature for interest on judgments and shall be
assessed on the balance beginning on the day following the giving of notice of
the fine, penalty or costs of remediation or compliance. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 3-20-
2008)
12-2-18: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and
deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's
expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the
cessation of such nuisance may be taken. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 3-20-2008)
12-2-19: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the village of Green Oaks to seek cumulative, alternative and
additional remedies at law or in equity.
In enforcing the regulations of this chapter or in obtaining the fines and
penalties provided for in this chapter, the village of Green Oaks may recover
all engineering fees, attorney fees, court costs, and other expenses associated
with enforcement of this chapter, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(Ord. 2008-O-2, 3-20-2008)
TITLE 13
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
VENDING MACHINES; JUKEBOXES; AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
13-1-1: Definitions
13-1-2: Regulations
13-1-2-1: Gambling Devices Not Permitted; Exception
13-1-2-2: License Required
13-1-2-3: Display Of License For Individual Machines
13-1-2-4: Minimum Square Foot Requirements
13-1-2-5: Limitation Of Number Of Amusement Devices
13-1-2-6: Exception
13-1-2-7: Age Restrictions Of Players
13-1-2-8: Cigarette Vending Machines
13-1-3: Licenses
13-1-3-1: Proprietary License
13-1-3-2: Application
13-1-3-3: Inspection
13-1-3-4: Restrictions On Licensees
13-1-3-5: Revocation
13-1-3-6: Licenses For Vending Bulk Food Or Beverages
13-1-4: License Fees
13-1-4-1: Fee For Individual Machines
13-1-4-2: Fee Schedule For Individual Machines
13-1-4-3: Fee Schedule For Proprietary Licenses
13-1-5: Fee Increases
13-1-6: Seizure And Destruction Of Machines
13-1-7: Penalty
13-1-8: Severability
13-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context is otherwise indicated, the
following terms shall mean:
ACCESSORY AND SUBORDINATE USE AMUSEMENT DEVICE ESTABLISHMENT: The premises
where the coin operated amusement devices are located shall have a distinct and
primary business use and partially devoted to the use of between four (4) and
thirty five (35) coin operated amusement devices.
AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any machine, which upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token,
or similar object may be operated by the public generally for the use as a
game, entertainment or amusement whether or not registering a score and shall
include, but not be limited to, such devices as marble machines, pinball
machines, movie and video booths, video slot machines ("cherry pickers"), video
games, and all games, operations or transactions similar thereto under whatever
name by which they may be indicated. Incidental mechanical grab devices and
card game devices are deemed gambling devices and therefor are prohibited from
use in the village of Green Oaks. Amusement device shall not include lawfully
licensed video gaming terminals.
AMUSEMENT DEVICE ARCADE: An establishment exclusively devoted to the use of
between four (4) and one hundred ten (110) coin operated devices. Licenses for
such arcades shall only be issued to premises which have received a special use
permit for that purpose.
JUKEBOX: Any music vending machine, contrivance or device which, upon the
insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate, disk or key into a slot, crevice or
other opening, or by the payment of any price, operates or may be operated, for
the emission of songs, music or similar amusement.
PERSON: As used herein shall be deemed to mean any individual, firm,
corporation, partnership or association which owns any such machine; the
person, firm, corporation or association in whose place of business such
machine is placed for use by the public; the person, firm, corporation or
association having control over such machine; any person, firm, corporation or
association engaged in the business of distributing and/or servicing such
machines including the distributing, placing, leasing or selling thereof with
an agreement to maintain, service or supply such machines; provided, however,
that the payment of the fee hereinafter required by any such person, firm,
corporation or association enumerated herein shall be deemed compliance with
the requirement for payment of fee provided all other conditions hereof are
met.
PROPRIETARY LICENSE: A license issued under the terms provided in this chapter
to permit the installation and/or operation of more than four (4) coin operated
amusement devices in one location or business establishment.
RESTAURANT/BEVERAGE AMUSEMENT DEVICE ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment primarily
devoted to the sale of food and beverages and partially devoted to the use of
between four (4) and thirty five (35) coin operated amusement devices.
VENDING MACHINE: Shall include any mechanical device which is used for vending
any food, confection, cigarette, matches, drinks, services or anything else of
value and for which a profit accrues, or a fee remits, to the owner, or
proprietor, of such machine. This chapter shall include, but not be limited to,
machines activated by coin, token, slug, lever, remote control, key or payment
of any consideration. Vending machine shall not include lawfully licensed video
gaming terminals.
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: Any electronic video game machine that, upon insertion
of cash, is available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including,
but not limited to, video poker, line up, and blackjack, utilizing a video
display and microprocessors in which the player may receive free games,
receipts or credits which can be redeemed for cash. The definition of "video
gaming terminal" does not include a machine that directly dispenses coins,
cash, or tokens or is for amusement purposes only. (Ord. 97-08, 6-11-1997; amd.
Ord. 2014-O-01, 3-26-2014)
13-1-2: REGULATIONS:
13-1-2-1: GAMBLING DEVICES NOT PERMITTED; EXCEPTION:
Nothing in this chapter shall in any way be construed to authorize, license, or
permit any gambling devices whatsoever, or any mechanism that has been
judicially determined to be a gambling device, or in any way contrary to law,
or that may be contrary to any future laws of the state, except when such
gambling devices are licensed in accordance with the Illinois video gaming act
enacted July 13, 2009, and also permitted in accordance with this title. (Ord.
2014-O-01, 3-26-2014)
13-1-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Any person displaying for public patronage or keeping for operation any
"vending machine", "jukebox", or "amusement device" as herein defined in
section
13-1-1 of this chapter, shall be required to obtain a license from the village
upon payment of a license fee. Application for such license shall be made to
the village upon a form to be supplied by the village clerk for that purpose.
(Ord. 97-08, 6-11-1997)
13-1-2-3: DISPLAY OF LICENSE FOR INDIVIDUAL MACHINES:
   A.   All licenses provided for herein, when issued, shall be evidenced by a
fee emblem which shall be affixed prominently and conspicuously to each machine
or device, or posted clearly in the premises where the machine is located.
   B.   Not more than one machine shall be operated under one license and the
applicant or licensee shall be required to secure a license for each machine
displayed or operated.
   C.   If the licensee shall move his place of business to another location
within the village, the license may be transferred to such new location upon
application to the village clerk, provided the new location shall be approved
in the manner provided in this section
13-1-2. A license shall not be transferable from person to person, nor from
machine to machine. (Ord. 97-08, 6-11-1997)
13-1-2-4: MINIMUM SQUARE FOOT REQUIREMENTS:
Only one amusement device will be permitted up to the first two thousand
(2,000) square feet of floor space contained in the premises or place of
business in which such machine is to be located or placed. Any additional
placement of such device will require an additional one thousand (1,000) square
feet of floor space for each device. (Ord. 97-08, 6-11-1997)
13-1-2-5: LIMITATION OF NUMBER OF AMUSEMENT DEVICES:
Not more than three (3) amusement devices shall be permitted on the premises or
place of business in which such devices are to be located or placed unless a
proprietary license has been granted. (Ord. 97-08, 6-11-1997)
13-1-2-6: EXCEPTION:
Notwithstanding the foregoing limitations provided in the Sections of
13-1-2 of this Chapter, the Village may grant a proprietary license, as
provided in Section
13-1-3 of this Chapter, to authorize amusement devices exceeding the minimum
square footage requirements and limitation on number of amusement devices.
(Ord. 97-08, 6-11-1997)
13-1-2-7: AGE RESTRICTIONS OF PLAYERS:
No automatic amusement device on the premises of a retail alcoholic liquor
establishment shall be played by anyone under the age of twenty one (21) years
of age unless such establishment is principally a restaurant, food store or
bowling alley. (Ord. 97-08, 6-11-1997)
13-1-2-8: CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINES:
Nothing in this Chapter shall in any way be construed to allow cigarette
vending machines to be placed in violation of State or Federal tobacco rules.
To this end, cigarette vending machines may only be placed in locations where
persons under the age of eighteen (18) years are prohibited. (Ord. 97-08, 6-11-
1997)
13-1-3: LICENSES:
13-1-3-1: PROPRIETARY LICENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to have within any premises in the Village
more than four (4) coin operated amusement devices without obtaining a
proprietary license for said premises.
   A.   There shall be three (3) classes of coin operated amusement machine and
device establishments which require a proprietary license.
      1.   An "amusement device arcade" shall require a Class A license.
      2.   A "restaurant/beverage amusement device establishment" shall require
a Class B license.
      3.   An "accessory and subordinate use amusement device establishment"
shall require a Class C license.
   B.   All holders of proprietary licenses shall be subject to the following
rules and regulations:
      1.   A proprietary license is usable only at the place and by the person
designated in the license and is not transferable.
      2.   The licensee shall be permitted to substitute and/or exchange
devices providing the total number of devices does not exceed the number
permitted by the proprietary license. The Village Clerk must be notified of
each transaction and an individual license shall be purchased for each new
machine. Notification to the Clerk shall include the name, dimensions, and
general operation of each machine which is added or removed from the premises.
Machine licenses are issued for a specific machine and are not transferable.
      3.   No amusement device shall be placed in any required exit path of
travel.
      4.   An adult manager shall be required to be present during all times
that the premises is open for business.
      5.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall be allowed to
play an amusement device licensed in a retail alcoholic liquor establishment,
unless accompanied by a parent or guardian, or unless the device is housed in a
specifically designated area removed from the liquor service area.
      6.   It shall be unlawful to permit gambling on the premises.
      7.   It shall be unlawful for any proprietary license holder to allow a
degree of noise to develop which would cause a disturbance to the adjacent or
surrounding uses such that the normal use of said adjacent or surrounding uses
would be damaged or unreasonably disturbed.
      8.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or attendant to permit any
individual under the influence of alcohol or drugs to remain on the premises.
      9.   All licensees hereunder shall have the affirmative duty to report to
the Police Department any and all incidents or reports of a "disturbance of the
peace" as defined and regulated in this Code and which takes place within the
licensed premises or within one hundred feet (100') from the entrance. This
includes incidents both observed by or reported to the management of the
establishment. Failure to report to the Lake County Sheriff's Department shall
be deemed sufficient cause to revoke all licenses.
      10.   All licensees shall permanently and conspicuously post an occupancy
limit sign offered by the local fire protection district and shall adhere to
said limit.
      11.   All licensees shall:
         a.   Keep their premises clean and sanitary;
         b.   Provide waste receptacles;
         c.   Provide adequate and orderly parking for bicycles and motor
vehicles;
         d.   Ensure that all sidewalks and/or walkways outside the premises
are clear and open to pedestrian traffic;
         e.   Post any curfew law in force within the Village;
         f.   Open and operate the game room only during the hours that the
primary business establishment is open to the public;
         g.   Maintain and keep all machines in good repair and operating
condition; and
         h.   In the event of a malfunction of a machine, the operator of the
premises, his agents or employees on the premises shall furnish a refund to the
machine user.
      12.   A minimum of forty (40) square feet of floor area shall be devoted
to each amusement device. Such area shall include the machine, its immediate
area and may include the aisles.
   C.   All holders of Class A proprietary licenses shall also be subject to
the following additional rules and regulations:
      1.   The primary business on the premises shall be the use and operation
of the amusement devices. No Class A license shall be issued for operation on
any premises which have not been granted a special use permit for that use
under the provisions of Title 8 of this Code.
      2.   There shall be no permitted entry into the premises except from the
interior of an enclosed retail shopping center.
      3.   The proprietor shall, in a manner satisfactory to the Village
President, prevent the use or operation of any of the amusement devices by any
person under eighteen (18) years of age, unless they are accompanied by a
parent or an adult twenty one (21) years of age or older.
      4.   The sale or consumption of alcoholic liquor as defined in Chapter 10
of this Code on the licensed premises shall be prohibited.
      5.   The premises must be located in reasonable proximity to a security
office located within the enclosed retail shopping center. The exact distance
between such premises and the security office required shall be determined by
the Village Planning Commission in any findings and recommendations concerning
the special use permit application. (Ord. 97-08, 6-11-1997)
13-1-3-2: APPLICATION:
The application for all licenses, including proprietary licenses shall contain
the following information:
   A.   Name and address of the applicant, date of birth and place of birth.
   B.   Prior criminal convictions of applicant, if any.
   C.   Place where machine or device is to be displayed or operated and the
business conducted at that place.
   D.   Description of machine to be covered by the license, mechanical
features, name of manufacturer and serial number.
   E.   Name, address and date of birth of any and all officers of the
corporation.
   F.   Any convictions of criminal laws by officers of the corporation.
   G.   Any information that is required by the Village President and included
on said application or that may be required by the Village President at a later
date to conduct a proper investigation for purposes of this Chapter.
   H.   The application will be completed in full and with all questions
answered.
No such license shall be issued until the original application has been
completely filled out and referred to the Village President for investigation
and verification of the facts stated therein and the business methods of the
operator. Any omission on the application or untruthfulness of the applicant
shall be cause for the refusal or revocation of said license. Unless the
Village President shall find that the operator has been convicted of a felony
or that he has violated any law or ordinance imposing any tax, or if either the
owner or operator has employed coercive or illegal measures to promote the use
of this device, or that the place where said machine is to be used is not
qualified under the provisions of this Chapter or any other ordinance of the
Village, or that the applicant is not of good moral character, he shall return
said application to the Clerk of the Village with his approval. Otherwise he
shall return the application with a statement of his reasons for refusing to
approve the application.
Any person applying for an amusement device license, cigarette vending machine
or jukebox license shall make himself available to the Village officials for
purposes of being fingerprinted to determine criminal record, if any, of the
applicant. This requirement shall include officers or directors of any
corporate applicant. Failure to do so will justify refusal for issuance of
license.
Any person whose application has been rejected by reason of licensing
investigation shall have a right to appeal from such decision to the Village
Board within ten (10) days of date of rejection notice. The Board shall
establish a time and place for such hearing at which the applicant and his
attorney may be present, present witnesses and submit evidence. Following such
hearing, the Village Board shall have a right to confirm such rejection or to
order the license to be issued. (Ord. 97-08, 6-11-1997)
13-1-3-3: INSPECTION:
Application for all licenses including proprietary licenses shall be made out
in duplicate, one copy being referred to the Village President and the other
copy to the Building Commissioner of the Village.
   A.   The Village President shall investigate the location wherein it is
proposed to operate such machine, ascertain if the applicant is a person of
good moral character, and either approve or disapprove the application.
   B.   The Building Commissioner shall inspect all wiring connections to the
machine, determine if the same comply with the Electrical Code of the Village,
and shall either approve or disapprove the application.
   C.   No license, including proprietary licenses, shall be issued to any
applicant unless approved by the Village President and the Building
Commissioner. (Ord. 97-08, 6-11-1997)
13-1-3-4: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSEES:
No person who is under the age of twenty one (21) years, or who is not a
citizen of the United States shall be granted a license hereunder. (Ord. 97-08,
6-11-1997)
13-1-3-5: REVOCATION:
Every license issued under this Chapter is subject to the right, which is
hereby expressly reserved, to revoke the same should the licensee, directly or
indirectly, permit the operation of any vending machine, jukebox or amusement
device contrary to the provisions of this Chapter, the ordinances of the
Village, or the laws of the State. Said license may be revoked by the Board of
Trustees after written notice to the licensee, which notice shall specify the
ordinance or law violations with which the licensee is charged, if, after a
hearing, the licensee is found to be guilty of such violations. Ten (10) days'
notice of the hearing shall be given to the licensee. At such hearing, the
licensee and his attorney may be present and may submit evidence or witnesses
in his defense. (Ord. 97-08, 6-11-1997)
13-1-3-6: LICENSES FOR VENDING BULK FOOD OR BEVERAGES:
No license shall be issued for a vending machine which dispenses bulk food or
beverages or otherwise is subject to the provisions of the Lake County Board of
Health Ordinance, article XVI, as amended from time to time, relating to the
regulation of food and beverage vending machines, unless the machine and the
operator or owner shall have first complied in all respects with the provisions
of said Board of Health Ordinance, including, but not limited to, obtaining all
licenses, permits, and approvals required by the Lake County Board of Health to
operate such vending machine. When making application for a license for such
vending machines, the owner shall submit proof of compliance with the
provisions of said Board of Health Ordinance. Failure to maintain such
compliance, including, but not limited to, maintaining all licenses, permits
and approvals required thereunder, shall be grounds for revocation of the
license issued under this Chapter, as provided in Section
13-1-3-5 of this Chapter. The fee for all such machines shall be as set forth
in Section
13-1-4-2 of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-08, 6-11-1997)
13-1-4: LICENSE FEES:
13-1-4-1: FEE FOR INDIVIDUAL MACHINES:
An annual fee for each calendar year is imposed upon all amusement devices,
jukeboxes and vending machines operated for gain or profit in the amount as
prescribed by Section
13-1-4-2 of this Chapter, as amended.
The fee shall be paid by the owner of the device to the Village Clerk. The
Village Clerk shall issue evidence of such payment of said fee, a self-adhesive
fee emblem to be placed on each device. Such emblem shall be issued to a
specific machine and shall bear the wording as may be prescribed by the Village
Board of Trustees. It shall be unlawful for any person to mutilate said fee
emblem or to transfer said fee emblem to another machine during the year for
which it is issued.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of the machine and the owner or lessee of
any premises or person in control of such premises to permit the installation
or use of an amusement device, jukebox or vending machine within the Village
for gain or profit unless the fee has been paid and is evidenced by the fee
emblem affixed to the machine. Each such device shall be plainly labeled with
the name, address and telephone number of its owner. The owner of the machine
must apply for and be issued the license to operate the machine in the Village.
(Ord. 97-08, 6-11-1997)
13-1-4-2: FEE SCHEDULE FOR INDIVIDUAL MACHINES:
An annual fee for each calendar year is imposed upon each amusement device,
jukebox and vending machine operated for gain or profit, said fee to be in the
following amount:
 
Machines with a fee of $0.24 or less $25.00 per machine
Machines with a fee of $0.25 or more 50.00 per machine
 
(Ord. 97-08, 6-11-1997)
13-1-4-3: FEE SCHEDULE FOR PROPRIETARY LICENSES:
An annual fee for a proprietary license shall be as follows:
 
Class A establishment $40.00
Class B establishment 35.00
Class C establishment 30.00
 
The license fee per amusement device shall be in addition to the proprietary
license fee. The proprietary license fee shall be in addition to any other
business or alcoholic beverage fee required by the establishment. (Ord. 97-08,
6-11-1997)
13-1-5: FEE INCREASES:
Nothing herein shall in anyway be construed to eliminate the necessity for
public hearing prior to a license fee increase, as required by 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-55-1 et seq. Pursuant to said statutes, if a license fee
increase is proposed, the corporate authorities of the Village shall schedule
and hold a public hearing on the subject of the proposed increase. Notice of
the proposed hearing shall be mailed at least thirty (30) days before the
hearing to the last known address of each person holding such a license. At the
hearing, a sworn statement by the Village Administrator that such notice has
been mailed shall be prima facie evidence of such notice. (Ord. 97-08, 6-11-
1997)
13-1-6: SEIZURE AND DESTRUCTION OF MACHINES:
If any duly authorized enforcement officer of or for the Village shall have
reason to believe any amusement device is used as a gambling device, such
machine may be seized by the officer and impounded, and if upon trial of the
licensee or operator for allowing it to be used as a gambling device, said
licensee or operator be found guilty, such machine may be destroyed by order of
court, pursuant to 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1 et seq.
If any duly authorized enforcement officer of or for the Village shall have
reasonable basis for believing any vending machine, jukebox or amusement device
is operating unlicensed, it may be seized by any duly authorized enforcement
officer and impounded. When a machine is impounded for failure to have or
display a license, the machine shall be held until the owner pays the
appropriate license fee and all costs of seizure, cartage and impounding,
including five dollars ($5.00) per day for storage. If the machine is not
licensed and costs paid within thirty (30) days after impounding, the machine
may be destroyed. (Ord. 97-08, 6-11-1997)
13-1-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter upon conviction
thereof, in addition to the penalty of revocation of his license, shall be
fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day that an offense continues
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 97-08, 6-11-1997)
13-1-8: SEVERABILITY:
In the event that any section, clause, provision, or part of this Chapter shall
be found and determined to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, all
valid parts that are severable from the invalid parts will remain in full force
and effect. If any part of this Chapter is found to be invalid in any one or
more of its several applications, all valid applications that are severable
from the invalid application shall remain in effect. (Ord. 97-08, 6-11-1997)
CHAPTER 2
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
13-2-1: License Required
13-2-2: License Applications
13-2-3: Investigations
13-2-4: License Approval; Disapproval
13-2-5: License Term; Expiration; Renewal
13-2-6: Unlawful Use Of Licenses
13-2-7: Building And Premises
13-2-8: Location
13-2-9: Nuisances
13-2-10: Businesses Open To The Public
13-2-11: Inspections
13-2-12: Penalty; Enforcement
13-2-13: Suspension; Revocation Of License
13-2-14: Posting; Removal; Destruction Of License
13-2-15: Requirements For Additional Licenses
13-2-16: Adoption By Reference
13-2-17: License Fees; Required Licenses
13-2-18: Conflicts
13-2-19: Violations; Penalty; Nuisance
13-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall conduct, engage in, maintain, operate, carry on or
manage any business, occupation, activity or establishment, either by himself
or itself, or through an agent, employee or partner, for which a license is
required by this Chapter or by any other Village ordinance, without first
having obtained a license for such business, occupation, activity or
establishment.
   B.   Except as might be specifically set forth in other ordinances of the
Village, whenever a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person shall be subject to the requirements if
by himself or itself, or through an agent, employee or partner, he or it is
held forth as being engaged in the business, activity or occupation, or if he
or it solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively, or if he or it
performs or attempts to perform any part of such business, activity, or
occupation in the Village. (Ord. 97-16, 9-3-1997)
   C.   The regulations and licensure requirements of this Chapter do not apply
to any person operating a "home occupation" which is permitted under the zoning
regulations of the Village including, but not limited to, Section
8-5-3 of this Code. (Ord. 98-16, 12-16-1998)
13-2-2: LICENSE APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Applications for all licenses shall be made to the Village
Administrator, in writing, on a form provided for that purpose, except as may
be otherwise provided.
   B.   If the applicant is an individual (sole proprietorship), the
application shall contain his name, residence address and residential telephone
number. If the applicant is a partnership or other noncorporate business
entity, the application shall contain the name and residential address and
residential telephone number of each partner, principal or member thereof. If
the applicant is a corporation, the application shall contain the name,
residential address and residential telephone number of each principal officer
and the registered agent thereof.
   C.   Each application also shall contain:
      1.   A designation of the type or kind of license desired (e.g.,
"business license");
      2.   The location or proposed location of the place of business,
occupation or activity; (Ord. 97-16, 9-3-1997)
      3.   The applicable fee to be paid as provided in Section
13-2-17 of this Chapter; (Ord. 98-05, 3-25-1998)
      4.   The number of the certificate of registration required under the
Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, Service Occupation Tax Act, and/or Use Tax Act,
if applicable; and
      5.   Such additional information as may be needed for the proper guidance
of village officials in the evaluation of such application, including proof of
any insurance policy or bond if required by any ordinance of the village. (Ord.
97-16, 9-3-1997)
13-2-3: INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   Where this chapter or village policy authorizes or requires an
investigation by any department or official of the village before the issuance
of a license, and requires the approval by such department or official
regarding the proper zoning location or condition of the premises in which the
business, occupation or activity for which a license is applied for, is to be
managed, conducted, operated or carried on, or regarding the condition and
nature of the equipment, any methods intended to be used by the applicant in
such business, occupation or activity, then the village administrator shall
transmit to the appropriate official or department such information necessary
for the required investigation or inspection.
   B.   The designated official or department shall:
      1.   Make all necessary investigation and inspections, and the results
thereof shall be reported in writing to the village administrator; and
      2.   Indicate on the application a recommendation for the approval or
disapproval thereof.
   C.   Upon receipt of all related investigative and inspection reports, if
any, the clerk shall forward such reports, together with the application, to
the village president for final determination. (Ord. 97-O-16, 9-3-1997)
13-2-4: LICENSE APPROVAL; DISAPPROVAL:
   A.   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and related investigative and inspection reports, the village
president shall determine that the application is satisfactory, he shall
approve the application. Thereupon, the village administrator shall notify the
applicant that the application has been approved. The license shall be signed
by the village president, or, at his/her direction, the village administrator,
and then issued to the licensee.
   B.   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and related investigative and inspection reports, the village
president shall determine that matters concerning the application are
unsatisfactory, the village president shall disapprove the application,
indicating the reasons therefor. Thereupon, the village administrator shall
notify the applicant that the application has not been approved and that no
license will be issued. (Ord. 97-O-16, 9-3-1997)
13-2-5: LICENSE TERM; EXPIRATION; RENEWAL:
   A.   Each license shall indicate its term. All annual licenses shall be
operative and the license year for the village shall commence on January 1 of
each year. No license shall be granted for a period longer than one year.
Except where otherwise provided in this chapter, every license shall expire on
December 31 following the date of issuance.
   B.   The village administrator shall endeavor to notify each annual licensee
of the expiration of time on the license held by the licensee at least twenty
one (21) days prior to such expiration date; provided, however, that a failure
to make such notification or the licensee's failure to receive it shall not
exclude the licensee from the obligation to obtain a new license or a renewal.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided herein, each license may be renewed upon
proper application and payment of the required fee. The requirements and
procedures for granting and issuing a license renewal shall be the same as the
requirements and procedures for granting a new license. (Ord. 2006-O-03, 4-26-
2006)
13-2-6: UNLAWFUL USE OF LICENSES:
No license may be assigned, sold, loaned, transferred, used as collateral or
otherwise encumbered. No person shall use or display on the licensed premises
any license, certificate, tag, badge or sticker issued by the village to any
other person. (Ord. 97-O-16, 9-3-1997)
13-2-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit shall
be issued for any purpose or activity if the premises or building to be used
for the purpose stated in the application does not fully comply with all
applicable ordinances and regulations of the village. (Ord. 97-O-16, 9-3-1997)
13-2-8: LOCATION:
   A.   No license for the operation of a business, establishment or activity
in the village shall be construed to permit its operation in more than one
location in the Village; a separate license shall be required for each
location.
   B.   For the purpose of this Chapter, the existence of a single location
shall be evidenced by the fact that all buildings containing the principal or
lawful accessory uses:
      1.   Shall be connected or shall be located on the same lot or parcel;
      2.   Shall be operated and managed by the same person or owner; and
      3.   Shall be an establishment with the same classification.
   C.   The location of any licensed business or occupation, other than the
sale of alcoholic liquors, or the location of any permitted act, may be
changed, provided that the Village Administrator's office shall be given
sufficient notice of such intended change in location to determine that the
operation for which the license is required conforms with all applicable
ordinances and regulations of the Village at its new location. (Ord. 97-16, 9-
3-1997)
13-2-9: NUISANCES:
   A.   Prohibited: Generally, no business or establishment, whether or not
licensed, shall be so conducted or operated as to constitute a nuisance in
fact; and no building, vehicle, structure, yard, lot, premises, or part thereof
shall be used, kept, maintained or operated in connection with any business or
establishment so as to occasion any nuisance, or so as to be dangerous to life,
detrimental to health, or operated in violation of any local, State or Federal
laws.
   B.   Refuse Disposal:
      1.   Refuse Containers: All refuse which is placed for collection service
outside any building or structure must be kept in standard refuse containers
unless another type of container is approved by the Village due to the unusual
nature of the refuse produced by the business.
      2.   Refuse Removal: It shall be the duty of the occupant of every
building, structure or premises used or maintained in connection with any
business or occupation to cause all refuse produced therein to be removed at
his own cost and expense.
      3.   Removal By Business Or Occupations: Every person owning or
controlling any hotel, restaurant, cafe, retail food establishment or other
business or occupation, where more than thirty two (32) gallons of refuse is
normally produced weekly, shall cause all substances deposited in such
containers to be removed as often as shall be necessary, including daily
removal from his premises, to ensure the healthful environment surrounding such
establishment. (Ord. 97-16, 9-3-1997)
13-2-10: BUSINESSES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC:
All business or commercial establishments licensed under this Chapter which
invite the public generally into their establishments for the purpose of
conducting business, commercial activity or any other activity licensed under
this Chapter, shall be subject to the following regulations in addition to all
other applicable ordinances, regulations and laws:
   A.   All business or commercial establishments subject to this Section shall
refrain from all deceptive trade practices as defined by State or Federal law
or regulation and shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations
regarding consumer protection and deceptive trade practices. In the event of
any such violation, the business license of the establishment may be revoked
pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   All licensees shall comply, at all times, with all applicable Federal,
State and local statutes, ordinances, resolutions and regulations. (Ord. 97-16,
9-3-1997)
13-2-11: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by
this Chapter, or any other ordinance of the Village upon probable cause that a
violation of law exists upon the premises, or are reasonably necessary to
assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or regulation of the
Village, or to determine violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises to admit thereto for the
purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the Village who is
duly authorized to make such inspection at any reasonable time that such
admission or entry is requested. By applying for a license hereunder, the
applicant agrees and consents to the provisions of this subsection.
   B.   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of this Chapter, or of any
ordinance or regulations, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty
of the licensee or person in charge of the premises to give to any duly
authorized officer or employee of the Village requesting the same, sufficient
samples of such material or commodity for such analysis upon official request.
   C.   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Village
President may revoke under the provisions of this Chapter the license of any
owner or operator of a licensed business in the Village who refuses to permit
any duly authorized officer or employee to make such inspection or to take any
adequate sample of said commodity, or who interferes with such officer or
employee while in the performance of his duties. (Ord. 97-16, 9-3-1997)
13-2-12: PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Unless otherwise expressly provided, any person convicted of violating
any provisions of this Chapter shall be fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each day
that a violation exists.
   B.   Whenever a person shall neglect or refuse to procure any license
required by this Chapter, or otherwise violates the terms of this Chapter, the
Village President is authorized to cause appropriate legal or equitable action
and proceedings to be instituted to enforce the license requirement.
   C.   The Village President shall take all necessary and appropriate action
to compel compliance with the regulatory provisions of this Chapter. When
necessary and expedient, he may call upon the appropriate law enforcement
official to assist in such enforcement. (Ord. 97-16, 9-3-1997)
13-2-13: SUSPENSION; REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   When the conduct or operation of any business, occupation, activity or
establishment, whether licensed or unlicensed, shall constitute a nuisance in
fact and a clear and present danger to the public health, safety or general
welfare, or where the owner and/or operator of any such licensed business shall
have refused to allow an inspection of his premises or has refused to furnish a
sample of his goods for testing, the Village President shall be authorized to
summarily order the cessation of business and the closing of the premises until
the danger no longer exists or until the licensee provides adequate assurance
that such conditions or violations shall not be revived or renewed. In any
other case, when there has been a violation of any provision of this Chapter,
the Village President may suspend or revoke the license so issued.
   B.   Within ten (10) days after a license is suspended or revoked, the
Village President shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether
or not the license revocation should be annulled or modified and in the case of
a suspension, whether or not the suspension should be continued or converted to
a revocation.
   C.   Licenses issued by the Village, unless otherwise provided, may be
revoked or suspended by the Village President after notice and hearing as
provided in subsections D and E of this Section for any of the following
causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for the license;
      2.   Any violation by the licensee of provisions of this Chapter or other
ordinances of the Village relating to the license, the subject matter of the
license or the premises occupied;
      3.   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor where
such conviction indicates their inability to operate a safe, honest and
legitimate business operation within the Village;
      4.   Failure of the licensee to pay any fine, penalty or charge owed to
the Village;
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling or any interference with
a duly authorized Municipal officer or employee while in the reasonable
performance of his duties in making such inspections, as provided herein;
      6.   Causing or allowing the licensed premises or any portion thereof to
become or remain a nuisance as defined in Section
13-2-9 of this Chapter.
Such revocation or continuation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and
imposition of any other penalties provided for the violation of other
applicable provisions of this chapter or other ordinances of the village.
   D.   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified or registered
mail to the licensee at the address stated in the application at least five (5)
days prior to the date set for the hearing. The village president or his
designee may continue the hearing for good cause shown.
   E.   At the hearing, the village attorney shall present the complaint and
shall represent the village. The licensee shall be permitted counsel and shall
have the right to submit evidence and cross examine witnesses. The village
president or his designee shall preside and shall render the decision. Strict
rules of evidence shall not be applicable.
   F.   A stenographically or electronically recorded record of the hearing
shall be kept. The village shall pay the cost of attendance fees of the
reporter and the cost of the transcript, if such transcript shall be ordered by
the village. The licensee shall pay the cost of any transcript or copy ordered
by him/her/it.
   G.   Within a reasonable time after the conclusion of the hearing, but not
later than ten (10) days after such conclusion, the village president shall
file a written decision in which he has summarized the evidence and has stated
the reasons for his decision. (Ord. 97-16, 9-3-1997)
13-2-14: POSTING; REMOVAL; DESTRUCTION OF LICENSE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in
the village to keep his license displayed at all times in a prominent place on
the premises, machine or vehicle used for such business. Upon request of the
village president or any person designated by him, the licensee shall produce
the license for inspection.
   B.   No person shall destroy, obliterate, take, remove or carry away without
the consent of the owner any license, certificate, plate, or sticker which has
been issued by the village except when such license, certificate or sticker has
been discontinued or the licensed premises have been abandoned. Nothing herein
shall prevent the village president or his duly authorized representative from
removing any license, certificate, plate, or sticker from the possession of a
former licensee, his premises, any vehicle or any machine when said license has
been revoked under the provisions of this code. (Ord. 97-16, 9-3-1997)
13-2-15: REQUIREMENTS FOR ADDITIONAL LICENSES:
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, each individual business or
commercial activity within the village shall be required to obtain only one
license, but shall be required to comply with all applicable regulations
contained in this chapter or elsewhere. The license fee required to be paid by
an individual business which is subject to two (2) or more licenses in this
chapter shall be the largest of those applicable. A business shall be
considered to be individual only if it is owned by identical persons or
entities, is contained within one single building and conducts activities which
are closely related. (Ord. 97-16, 9-3-1997)
13-2-16: ADOPTION BY REFERENCE:
Whenever within this chapter any regulation or public record is adopted and
incorporated by reference, the manner of their adoption and incorporation shall
have complied with the provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statutes allowing
such incorporation and adoption. (Ord. 97-16, 9-3-1997)
13-2-17: LICENSE FEES; REQUIRED LICENSES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for a business to operate within the village
without a business license required by this chapter.
   B.   Annual license fees under the terms of this chapter, for the
businesses, occupations, activities and uses set forth, shall be sixty five
dollars ($65.00) if purchased by January 31 of the license year. The license
fee shall be one hundred thirty dollars ($130.00) if purchased between January
31 and June 30 of the license year. If purchased on or after July 1 of the
license year, the license fee shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). The
license year shall be January 1 to December 31. The full license fee shall be
paid annually and no fee shall be prorated for a term of less than one year.
Proof of any bond or liability insurance policy required by this chapter shall
be provided with the license fee.
   C.   A license is required for the following businesses:
Amusements.
Animal sales.
Auctioneers and going out of business sales (at fixed locations within the
village).
Billiard table operators and bowling alleys.
Breweries.
Carters, expressmen and storage of carting and express vehicles and trailers.
Cigarette/tobacco dealers and cigarette vending machines.
Coffeehouses.
Cold storage establishments.
Dry cleaning establishments.
Explosive storage and handling.
Fire extinguisher service and repair.
Flammable and hazardous chemicals.
Flammable liquids; storage and handling.
Florists, plant shops.
Food establishments; where food is sold, eaten, or prepared.
Fuel oil, solid fuel dealers.
Gasoline filling stations; automotive vehicle wrecking and repair
establishments.
Hotels and motels.
Junk dealers.
Laundry and laundromats.
Livery stables.
Lumberyards and lumber storehouses.
Medical dispensaries.
Parking lot or public garage.
Pawnbrokers.
Retail sales.
Secondhand dealers and similar sales (excluding occasional garage sales by
persons who are not dealers).
Theaters and theatrics.
Video movie sales or rentals.
   D.   At any time on or after July 1 of each license year the village may
take any or all lawful action necessary to collect the license fee due under
this section including, but not limited to, placing the delinquent license fee
account for collection with a debt collection company. (Ord. 2013-O-04, 4-24-
2013; amd. Ord. 2021-O-22, 12-15-2021)
13-2-18: CONFLICTS:
The provisions of this chapter are not intended to supersede any other specific
ordinance which pertains to any specific other license or licensing procedure
or regulation. Where this chapter is in conflict with any other provision of
this code, the most restrictive provision shall apply. Where state statute
specifically supersedes this chapter, the state statute shall prevail. (Ord.
97-16, 9-3-1997)
13-2-19: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY; NUISANCE:
It is declared by the corporate authorities that the maintaining, operating or
continuation of any enterprise, activity or device requiring a license under
this chapter or any other ordinance without actual issuance to and possession
by the licensee of the license granted, is a public nuisance. Any such public
nuisance may be abated by an action for any or all of the remedies of penalty
pursuant to the penalty provisions of this chapter, temporary restraining
order, preliminary injunction, and permanent injunction or other equivalent
legal remedy. The remedies provided for herein and any other provision of law
are deemed cumulative and not exclusive. Each day that a violation of this
chapter shall exist shall be considered a separate violation. (Ord. 97-16, 9-3-
1997)
CHAPTER 3
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
13-3-1: Short Title
13-3-2: Definitions
13-3-3: Adult Use Commissioner; Commission
13-3-4: Adult Establishment Licenses Generally
13-3-5: Form; Submittal Of License Application
13-3-6: Processing Of License Application
13-3-7: Standards For Issuance Or Denial Of License
13-3-8: Inspections
13-3-9: Change In Information
13-3-10: Regulations Applicable To All Adult Entertainment Establishments
13-3-11: Special Regulations For Adult Booths
13-3-12: Special Regulations For Adult Cabarets
13-3-13: Special Regulations For Adult Stores
13-3-14: Special Regulations For Adult Theaters
13-3-15: Licensee Responsibility For Employees
13-3-16: License Revocation Or Suspension
13-3-17: Administrative Record
13-3-18: Employee Registration And Record Keeping
13-3-19: Penalty
13-3-20: Nuisance Declared
13-3-21: Computation Of Time
13-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as, and may be referred to as, the GREEN OAKS ADULT
USE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 98-08, 4-22-1998)
13-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms, phrases, and words shall
have the meanings given herein:
ADULT BOOTH: Any area of an adult entertainment establishment set off from the
remainder of such establishment by one or more walls or other dividers or
partitions and used to show, play, or otherwise demonstrate any adult materials
or to view any live performance that is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of specified anatomical
areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT: Any of the following commercial
establishments, as defined herein:
Adult Cabaret: Any commercial establishment that as a substantial or
significant portion of its business features or provides any of the following:
   A.   Persons who appear seminude.
   B.   Live performances that are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of specified anatomical
areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities.
   C.   Films, motion pictures, video or audiocassettes, slides, computer
displays, or other visual representations or recordings of any kind that are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or
description of specified anatomical areas, or the conduct or simulation of
specified sexual activities.
Adult Store: Any commercial establishment that: a) contains one or more adult
booths; b) as a substantial or significant portion of its business offers for
sale, rental, or viewing any adult materials; or c) has a segment or section
devoted to the sale or display of adult materials.
Adult Theater: Any commercial establishment that as a substantial or
significant portion of its business features or provides: a) films, motion
pictures, video or audiocassettes, slides, or other visual representations or
recordings that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
exposure, depiction, or description of specified anatomical areas, or the
conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities; or b) live performances
that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the exposure,
depiction, or description of specified anatomical areas or the conduct or
simulation of specified sexual activities.
ADULT ESTABLISHMENT EMPLOYEE: Any individual, including entertainers, who work
in or at, or render any services directly related to the operation of, an adult
entertainment establishment; provided, however, that this definition shall not
include persons delivering goods, materials (other than adult materials), food
and beverages, or performing maintenance or repairs, to the licensed premises.
ADULT ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE: A license issued for an adult entertainment
establishment pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
ADULT ESTABLISHMENT PATRON: Any individual, other than an adult establishment
employee, present in or at any adult entertainment establishment at any time
when such adult entertainment establishment is open for business.
ADULT MATERIAL: Any of the following, whether new or used:
   A.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or digitally
stored material, films, motion pictures, video or audiocassettes, slides,
computer displays, or other visual representations or recordings of any kind,
that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the exposure,
depiction, or description of specified anatomical areas, or the conduct or
simulation of specified sexual activities.
   B.   Instruments, novelties, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use in connection with specified sexual activities, or that depict or describe
specified anatomical areas.
ADULT USE COMMISSION: A commission appointed by the Adult Use Commissioner
pursuant to Section
13-3-3 of this Chapter.
ADULT USE COMMISSIONER: The Village President, pursuant to Section
13-3-3 of this Chapter.
COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT: Any place where admission, services, performances, or
products are provided for or upon payment of any form of consideration.
DAYS: Calendar days, unless otherwise specifically set forth in this Chapter.
LICENSED PREMISES: The place or location described in an adult establishment
license where an adult entertainment establishment is authorized to operate. No
sidewalks, streets, parking areas, public rights of way, or grounds adjacent to
any such place or location shall be included within the licensed premises.
LICENSEE: Any person or entity that has been issued an adult establishment
license pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
MINOR: Any person less than eighteen (18) years of age.
NUDE OR STATE OF NUDITY: A state of dress or undress that exposes to view: a)
less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals; pubic region; anus;
or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola, but not
including any portion of the cleavage of the female breast exhibited by a
dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel, provided
the areola is not exposed; or b) human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if completely and opaquely covered, or any device or covering that,
when worn, simulates human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
REVIEWING DEPARTMENTS: Offices of the Village Building Commissioner, Zoning
Administrator and Police Department.
SEMINUDE: A state of dress or undress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices or by other minor accessory
apparel such as hats, gloves, and socks.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Any of the following:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals; pubic region;
buttocks; anus; or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola, but not including any portion of the cleavage of the female breast
exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing
apparel, provided the areola is not exposed.
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered, or any device or covering that, when worn, simulates
human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACT: Any unlawful lewd, indecent, or immoral conduct,
including specifically, but without limitation, any of the lewd, indecent, or
immoral criminal acts specified in any of the following statutes:
   A.   Article II of the Illinois Criminal Code (sex offenses).
   B.   Section 26-4 of the Illinois Criminal Code, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/26-4 (unauthorized videotaping).
   C.   Section 33D-1 of the Illinois Criminal Code, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/33D-1 (contributing to the criminal delinquency of a juvenile).
   D.   The Obscene Phone Call Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 135/0.01 et
seq.
   E.   The Wrongs to Children Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 150/0.01 et
seq.
   F.   The Improper Supervision of Children Act, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 640/0.01 et seq.
   G.   The Sale of Immoral Publications to Children Act, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 670/0.01 et seq.
   H.   The Cannabis Control Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq.
   I.   The Illinois Controlled Substances Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
570/100 et seq.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following:
   A.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts.
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy.
   C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated.
   D.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or
tumescence.
   E.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in this definition.
STRADDLE DANCE: The use by any person, including specifically, but without
limitation, any adult establishment employee, of any part of his or her body to
touch the genitals, pubic region, buttock, anus, or female breast of any adult
establishment patron, or the touching of the genitals, pubic region, buttock,
anus, or female breast of any person by any adult establishment patron. Conduct
shall be a "straddle dance" regardless of whether the "touch" or "touching"
occurs while the person is displaying or exposing any specified anatomical
area. Conduct shall also be a "straddle dance" regardless of whether the
"touch" or "touching" is direct or through a medium. Conduct commonly referred
to by the slang terms "lap dance", "table dance", and "face dance" shall be
included within this definition of straddle dance.
VILLAGE ZONING ORDINANCE: The ordinance known and referred to as the Green Oaks
Zoning Ordinance, as it may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 98-08, 4-22-
1998)
13-3-3: ADULT USE COMMISSIONER; COMMISSION:
   A.   Adult Use Commissioner: The Village President is hereby designated as
the Adult Use Commissioner pursuant to the terms and conditions of this
Chapter. The Adult Use Commissioner shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   To administer and rule upon the applications for, and the issuance,
renewal, suspension, and revocation of, adult establishment licenses as set
forth in this Chapter.
      2.   To conduct or provide for such inspections of adult entertainment
establishments as shall be necessary to determine and ensure compliance with
the provisions of this Chapter and other applicable provisions of law.
      3.   To periodically review the provisions of this Chapter and the
conduct and operation of adult entertainment establishments and adult
establishment licensees, and to make such related reports and recommendations
to the Village Board of Trustees as the Adult Use Commissioner shall deem
necessary.
      4.   To appoint Village Board Trustees to serve on the Adult Use
Commission as set forth in subsection B of this Section.
      5.   To direct the Adult Use Commission to conduct such hearings,
studies, and reports on adult entertainment establishments, and the regulations
relating thereto, as the Adult Use Commissioner shall deem necessary.
      6.   To take such further actions as the Adult Use Commissioner shall
deem necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Chapter and to
exercise such additional powers in furtherance thereof as are implied or
incident to those powers and duties expressly set forth in this Chapter.
   B.   Adult Use Commission:
      1.   Creation: A commission entitled "Adult Use Commission" is hereby
created and established for the purposes set forth in this Chapter.
      2.   Composition: The Adult Use Commissioner may appoint one or more
current Trustees of the Village Board to serve at the will of the Adult Use
Commissioner and to advise the Adult Use Commissioner on matters relating to
the implementation and enforcement of the regulations set forth in this Chapter
and to the exercise of the Adult Use Commissioner's powers and duties under
this Chapter. The person or persons appointed by the Adult Use Commissioner,
along with the Adult Use Commissioner, shall comprise the Adult Use Commission.
      3.   Filing Of Appointments: The Adult Use Commissioner shall file a
written appointment of each of the members of the Adult Use Commission in the
office of the Village Clerk within five (5) days of such appointment.
      4.   Duties: The Adult Use Commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
         a.   At the direction of the Adult Use Commissioner, to recommend to
the Adult Use Commissioner such further regulations regarding adult
entertainment establishments and adult establishment licenses as the members of
the Commission may deem necessary to protect the public health, safety, and,
welfare or to otherwise carry out the purposes and objectives of the
regulations established pursuant to this Chapter.
         b.   To conduct and prepare hearings, studies, and reports upon
matters referred to the Commission by the Adult Use Commissioner and to make
such reports and recommendations relating thereto as are requested by the Adult
Use Commissioner.
         c.   To conduct such hearings on the revocation or suspension of an
adult establishment license as required pursuant to Section
13-3-16 of this Chapter. (Ord. 98-08, 4-22-1998)
13-3-4: ADULT ESTABLISHMENT LICENSES GENERALLY:
   A.   License Required: An adult establishment license shall be required to
establish, operate, or maintain an adult entertainment establishment within the
Village.
   B.   Operation Without License Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person not having a current and valid adult establishment license to establish,
operate, or maintain an adult entertainment establishment within the
incorporated area of the Village at any time after the effective date hereof.
   C.   Operation In Violation Of License Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any licensee to establish, operate, or maintain an adult entertainment
establishment within the incorporated area of the Village except in the manner
authorized by, and in compliance with, the provisions of this Chapter and the
licensee's adult establishment license.
   D.   Content And Display Of License: Every adult establishment license shall
be provided by the Village and shall, at a minimum, prominently state on its
face the name of the licensee, the expiration date, and the address of the
adult entertainment establishment. Every licensee shall cause the licensee's
adult establishment license to be framed, covered by glass, and hung at all
times, in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises so that it
can be easily seen and read at any time by any person entering the licensed
premises.
   E.   License Term: All adult establishment licenses shall expire on the last
day of the Village fiscal year in which they are issued.
   F.   Renewal: An adult establishment license may be renewed only by making
application as required for an initial license pursuant to Section
13-3-5 of this Chapter. Application for renewal shall be made at least thirty
(30) days before the expiration of the then current license term. The
expiration of the license shall not be affected or extended by a renewal
application that is made less than thirty (30) days before expiration. (Ord.
98-08, 4-22-1998)
13-3-5: FORM; SUBMITTAL OF LICENSE APPLICATION:
   A.   Required Form: An application for an adult establishment license, or
the renewal thereof, shall be made in writing to the Adult Use Commissioner on
a form prescribed by the Adult Use Commissioner and shall be signed: 1) by the
proprietor, if the applicant is a sole proprietorship; 2) by at least one of
the general partners entitled to share in the profits of the partnership and
having unlimited personal liability for the obligations of the organization and
the right to bind all other such persons, if the applicant is a partnership
(general or limited), joint venture, or any other type of organization where
two (2) or more persons share in the profits and liabilities of the
organization; 3) by a duly authorized agent, if the applicant is a corporation;
or 4) by the trustee, if the applicant is a land trust, provided the land
trustee provides the required verification without limitation, that the
information provided is true and correct. The application shall be verified by
oath or affidavit as to all statements made on or in connection with the
application and any attachments thereto. Each application shall specifically
identify the applicant and the licensed premises for which an adult
establishment license is sought. Each initial or renewal application shall be
accompanied by four (4) identical copies.
   B.   Administrative Processing Fee: Every applicant for an adult
establishment license or for the renewal of an existing adult establishment
license shall pay an administrative processing fee (sometimes referred to as a
"license fee") in the amount of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) by
certified check to the Village at the time of filing such application. The
administrative processing fee shall in all cases be nonrefundable and shall be
deposited in the General Corporate Fund of the Village.
   C.   Required Information And Documents: Each application shall include the
following information and documents:
      1.   In addition to the specific information required in this subsection,
all applicants shall provide:
Federal employer identification number.
Illinois sales and/or use tax retailers' occupation tax number showing point of
sale registration in the Village.
Where age is required, date of birth shall be stated.
         a.   Individuals: The applicant's legal name, all of the applicant's
aliases, the applicant's business address, social security number, written
proof that the applicant is at least eighteen (18) years of age, the
citizenship and place of birth of the applicant and, if a naturalized citizen,
the time and place of his or her naturalization.
         b.   Corporations: The applicant corporation's complete name and
official business address; the legal name, all aliases, and the ages, business
addresses, and social security numbers of all of the directors, officers, and
managers of the corporation and of every person owning or controlling more than
fifty percent (50%) of the voting shares of the corporation; the corporation's
date and place of incorporation and the objects for which it was formed; proof
that the corporation is a corporation in good standing and authorized to
conduct business in the State; and the name of the registered corporate agent
and the address of the registered office for service of process.
         c.   Partnerships (General Or Limited): Joint ventures, or any other
type of organization where two (2) or more persons share in the profits and
liabilities of the organization; the applicant organization's complete name and
official business address; the legal name, all aliases, and the ages, business
addresses, and social security numbers of each partner or any other person
entitled to share in the profits of the organization, whether or not any such
person is also obligated to share in the liabilities of the organization. The
date, place and document number of the recording of the certificate of limited
partnership and a copy of said certificate.
         d.   Land Trusts: The applicant land trust's complete name; the legal
name, all aliases, and the business address of the trustee of the land trust;
the legal name, all aliases, and the ages, business addresses, and social
security numbers of each beneficiary of the land trust and the specific
interest of each such beneficiary in the land trust; and the interest, if any,
that the land trust holds in the licensed premises.
         e.   Agents: An agent for an applicant shall provide the agent's name,
age, address and disclose the name, address and legal entity status of his/her/
its principal. The information required in subsections C1a through C1d of this
Section shall be provided, as applicable, according to the type of legal entity
for which the agent is acting.
      2.   If a corporation or partnership is an interest holder that must be
disclosed pursuant to subsection C1b or C1c of this Section, then such interest
holders shall disclose the information required in said subsections with
respect to their interest holders.
      3.   The general character and nature of the business of the applicant.
      4.   The length of time that the applicant has been in the business of
the character specified in response to subsection C3 of this Section.
      5.   The location, including street address and legal description, and
telephone number, of the premises for which the adult establishment license is
sought.
      6.   The specific name of the business that is to be operated under the
adult establishment license.
      7.   The identity of each owner of the licensed premises. With respect to
each owner, the information that would have been required pursuant to
subsections C1 and C2 of this Section as if the owner was the applicant shall
be provided pursuant to this subsection C7.
      8.   A diagram showing the internal and external floor plan and
configuration of the licensed premises, including all doors, windows,
entrances, exits, the fixed structural internal features of the licensed
premises, plus the interior rooms, walls, partitions, stages, performance
areas, and restrooms. Areas available to patrons shall be clearly marked, areas
limited to use by employees only shall be clearly marked, areas limited to use
by management only shall be clearly marked, adult booths, if any, shall be
clearly marked. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an
engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be required; provided, however,
that each diagram shall be oriented to the north or to some designated street
or object and shall be drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions to
an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6") and sufficient to show clearly
the various interior dimensions of all areas of the licensed premises and to
demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. The requirements of
this subsection C8 shall not apply for renewal applications if the applicant
adopts a diagram that was previously submitted for the license sought to be
renewed and if the licensee certifies that the licensed premises has not been
altered since the immediately preceding issuance of the license and that the
previous diagram continues to accurately depict the exterior and interior
layouts of the licensed premises. The approval or use of the diagram required
pursuant to this subsection C8 shall not be deemed to be, and shall not be
interpreted or construed to constitute, any other Village approval otherwise
required pursuant to applicable Village ordinances and regulations.
      9.   The names of each governmental body from which, within five (5)
years immediately prior to the date of the present application, the applicant,
or any of the individuals identified in the application pursuant to subsection
C1 or C2 of this Section, has received a license or other authorization to
conduct or operate a business: a) substantially the same as an adult
entertainment establishment, and the names and addresses of each such business;
b) requiring a Federal, State, or local liquor license; or c) requiring a
Federal, State, or local gaming license.
      10.   The specific type or types of adult entertainment establishment(s)
that the applicant proposes to operate in the licensed premises.
      11.   A copy of each adult establishment license, liquor license, and
gaming license currently held by the applicant, or any of the individuals
identified in the application pursuant to subsection C1 or C2 of this Section.
      12.   Whether the applicant, or any of the individuals identified in the
application pursuant to subsection C1 or C2 of this Section, has been, within
five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the application, convicted of
any specified criminal act or any misdemeanor or felony violation or offense in
the Village or in any jurisdiction, other than parking violations and minor
traffic infractions. As to each conviction, the applicant or other individual
shall provide the conviction date, the case number, the nature of the
misdemeanor or felony violation(s) or offense(s), and the name and location of
the court.
      13.   Whether the applicant, or any of the individuals identified in the
application pursuant to subsection C1 or C2 of this Section, has had a license
or other authorization to conduct or operate a business substantially the same
as an adult entertainment establishment or any business requiring either a
liquor or gaming license, revoked or suspended, and, if so, the date and
grounds for each such revocation or suspension, and the name and location of
the establishment at issue.
      14.   The name of the individual or individuals who shall be the day-to-
day, on-site managers of the proposed adult entertainment establishment. If the
manager is other than the applicant, the applicant shall provide, for each
manager, all of the information required pursuant to subsections C1a, C9, and
C11 through C13 of this Section. If different managers are responsible for
different shifts, then the applicant shall provide a description of which
manager is responsible for which shift. Any change in managers shall require
immediate revision of the application and it shall be unlawful for any licensee
hereunder to operate unless all required management information is current and
accurate.
      15.   If the management posts or publishes rules of conduct for patrons,
a copy of such rules shall be included with the application. A current copy of
such rules shall be on file with the Adult Use Commissioner.
   D.   Incomplete Applications Returned: Any application for an adult
establishment license that does not include all of the information and
documents required pursuant to subsection C of this Section as well as the
administrative processing fee required pursuant to subsection B of this
Section, shall be deemed to be incomplete and shall not be acted on or
processed by the Village. The Adult Use Commissioner shall, within seven (7)
days of such submittal, return the incomplete application to the applicant
along with a written explanation of the reasons why the application is
incomplete. Provided, however, failure to issue the license or to return an
incomplete application within seven (7) days shall not be considered to
authorize the adult entertainment establishment to commence operations. (Ord.
98-08, 4-22-1998)
13-3-6: PROCESSING OF LICENSE APPLICATION:
   A.   Reviewing Departments: Within three (3) days after receipt of a
complete application for an adult establishment license that includes all of
the information and documents required pursuant to subsection
13-3-5C of this Chapter as well as the administrative processing fee required
pursuant to subsection
13-3-5B of this Chapter, the Adult Use Commissioner shall transmit a copy of
the application to the reviewing departments.
   B.   Reviewing Department Reports: Each of the reviewing departments shall,
within twenty five (25) days after transmittal of the application thereto: 1)
review the application; 2) conduct such inspections of the proposed licensed
premises and background checks of the applicant and any of the individuals
identified in the application pursuant to subsections
13-3-5C1 and C2 of this Chapter, regarding matters within their respective
jurisdictions, as shall be reasonably necessary to verify the information set
forth in the application and to determine whether the proposed adult
entertainment establishment and licensed premises comply with the requirements
of this Chapter and other applicable laws, codes, ordinances, rules, and
regulations; and 3) prepare and submit to the Adult Use Commissioner a written
report regarding the results and findings of such reviews, inspections and
investigations.
   C.   Adult Use Commissioner Review: The Adult Use Commissioner shall also
conduct such inspections and investigations as the Adult Use Commissioner shall
deem reasonably necessary to verify the information set forth in the
application and to determine whether the proposed adult entertainment
establishment and licensed premises comply with the requirements of this
Chapter and other applicable laws, codes, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
   D.   Reliance On Diagram: In the event that the licensed premises has not
yet been constructed or reconstructed to accommodate the proposed adult
entertainment establishment, the Adult Use Commissioner and the reviewing
departments shall base their respective written reports, investigations, and
inspections to the extent necessary, on the diagram submitted pursuant to
subsection
13-3-5C8 of this Chapter. Any adult establishment license issued prior to the
construction or reconstruction necessary to accommodate the proposed adult
entertainment establishment shall contain, or shall be construed to contain, a
condition that the adult entertainment establishment shall not open for
business until the licensed premises has been inspected and determined to be in
substantial compliance with the diagram submitted with the application.
   E.   Applicant Cooperation Required: An applicant for an adult establishment
license shall cooperate fully in the inspections and investigations conducted
by the Adult Use Commissioner and the reviewing departments. The applicant's
failure or refusal to: 1) give any information reasonably relevant to the
verification of the information on the application; 2) allow the licensed
premises to be inspected; 3) appear at any reasonable time and place for
examination under oath regarding the application; or 4) otherwise fail or
refuse to cooperate with any investigation or inspection required by this
Chapter, shall be grounds for denial of the license by the Adult Use
Commissioner.
   F.   Time For Issuance Or Denial: The Adult Use Commissioner shall, within
thirty (30) days after submittal of a properly completed application, either
issue an adult establishment license pursuant to the provisions of subsection
13-3-7A of this Chapter or deny issuance of the adult establishment license
pursuant to the provisions of subsection
13-3-7B of this Chapter. The Adult Use Commissioner shall issue or deny the
license within said thirty (30) day period regardless of whether or not the
Adult Use Commissioner has received all of the reviewing department reports.
(Ord. 98-08, 4-22-1998)
13-3-7: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Issuance: The Adult Use Commissioner shall issue an adult establishment
license to an applicant if, but only if, the Adult Use Commissioner finds and
determines all of the following, based on the reports, investigations, and
inspections conducted by the Adult Use Commissioner and the reviewing
departments and on any other credible information on which it is reasonable for
the Adult Use Commissioner to rely:
      1.   All information and documents required by Section
13-3-5 of this Chapter for issuance of an adult establishment license have been
properly provided and the material statements made in the application are true
and correct.
      2.   All persons identified in the application pursuant to subsection
13-3-5C1 or C2 of this Chapter are at least eighteen (18) years of age and not
under any legal disability.
      3.   No person identified in the application pursuant to subsection
13-3-5C1 or C2 of this Chapter has been convicted of any specified criminal act
within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the application.
      4.   No person identified in the application pursuant to subsection
13-3-5C1 or C2 of this Chapter has been convicted of any violation of a
provision of this Chapter within five (5) years immediately preceding the date
of the application.
      5.   No person or other entity identified in the application pursuant to
subsection
13-3-5C1 or C2 of this Chapter is overdue on payment to the Village of taxes,
fees, fines, or penalties assessed against, or imposed on, any such individual
or entity.
      6.   No person identified in the application pursuant to subsection
13-3-5C1 or C2 of this Chapter is residing with, or married to, a person: a)
who has been denied an adult establishment license within twelve (12) months
immediately preceding the date of the application, b) whose adult establishment
license has been revoked within twenty four (24) months immediately preceding
the date of the application, or c) whose adult establishment license is under
suspension at the time of application; provided, however, that this prohibition
shall not disqualify an application if the Adult Use Commissioner finds that
the applicant was not chosen or used for purposes of subterfuge or to otherwise
avoid the fact that the person with whom the persons identified in the
application pursuant to subsection
13-3-5C1 or C2 of this Chapter is residing with, or married to, would not be
eligible for an adult establishment license pursuant to this Chapter.
      7.   The adult entertainment establishment and the licensed premises and
its improvements, and the proposed operation of the adult entertainment
establishment, comply with all then applicable building, health, life-safety
and revenue codes and regulations and have received all necessary zoning
approvals required pursuant to the then applicable provisions of the Village
Zoning Ordinance and regulations, including specifically, but without
limitation, the zoning certificate required for the adult entertainment
establishment at issue.
      8.   The applicant has confirmed in writing and under oath as part of the
application that the applicant is familiar with the terms and conditions of
this Chapter and the applicable provisions of the Zoning Ordinance, and that
the licensed premises and the proposed adult entertainment establishment and
its proposed operation are and shall at all times, be in compliance therewith.
   B.   Denial: If the Adult Use Commissioner determines that the applicant has
not met any one or more of the conditions set forth in subsection A of this
Section, then the Adult Use Commissioner shall deny issuance of the adult
establishment license and shall give the applicant a written notification and
explanation of such denial. The Adult Use Commissioner's notice of denial shall
be delivered in person or by certified U.S. mail, postage prepaid, return
receipt requested, addressed to the applicant's business address as set forth
in the application. The adult establishment license shall be deemed denied on
the day that the notice of denial is personally delivered or is placed in the
U.S. mail as provided in this subsection.
   C.   License Deemed To Be Issued: If the Adult Use Commissioner does not
issue or deny the adult establishment license within thirty (30) days after the
properly completed application is submitted, then the adult establishment
license applied for shall be deemed to have been issued. (Ord. 98-08, 4-22-
1998)
13-3-8: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Authority: The Adult Use Commissioner and other Village representatives
and departments with jurisdiction shall periodically inspect all adult
entertainment establishments as shall be necessary to determine compliance with
the provisions of this Chapter and all other applicable laws.
   B.   Licensee Cooperation: A licensee shall permit representatives of the
Village to inspect the licensed premises and the adult entertainment
establishment for the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of
this Chapter and all other applicable laws at any time during which the
licensed premises is occupied or the adult entertainment establishment is open
for business.
   C.   Interference Or Refusal Illegal: It shall be unlawful for the licensee,
any adult establishment employee, or any other person to prohibit, interfere
with, or refuse to allow, any lawful inspection conducted by the Village
pursuant to this Chapter or any other authority.
   D.   Revocation: Any prohibition, interference, or refusal to permit such
inspections shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of the adult
establishment license pursuant to Section
13-3-17 of this Chapter. (Ord. 98-08, 4-22-1998)
13-3-9: CHANGE IN INFORMATION:
During the pendency of any application for, or during the term of, any adult
establishment license, the applicant or licensee shall promptly notify the
Adult Use Commissioner in writing: a) of any change in any material information
given by the applicant or licensee in the application for such license,
including specifically, but without limitation, any change in managers of the
adult entertainment establishment or in the individuals identified in the
application pursuant to subsection
13-3-5C1 or C2 of this Chapter; or b) if any of the events specified in
subsection
13-3-16A of this Chapter occur. (Ord. 98-08, 4-22-1998)
13-3-10: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   General Compliance: All licensed premises and adult entertainment
establishments shall comply with the provisions of this Chapter; all other
applicable Village ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations; and all
other applicable Federal, State, and local laws.
   B.   Hours Of Operation: No adult entertainment establishment shall be open
for business at any time between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on any weekday or Saturday. No adult
entertainment establishment shall be open for business at any time on any
Sunday or on any legal State or Federal holiday.
   C.   Provisions Regarding Minors:
      1.   No adult entertainment establishment employee shall be a minor.
      2.   No minor shall be admitted to any premises licensed hereunder or
adult entertainment establishment.
      3.   No minor shall be allowed or permitted to remain at any licensed
premises or adult entertainment establishment.
      4.   No minor shall be allowed or permitted to purchase or receive,
whether for consideration or not, any adult material or other goods or services
at or upon any licensed premises or adult entertainment establishment.
   D.   Animals: No animals or reptiles except only for seeing eye dogs
required to assist the blind, shall be permitted at any time at or in any adult
entertainment establishment or licensed premises.
   E.   Restrooms: All restrooms in adult entertainment establishments shall be
equipped with standard toilets, sinks, and other traditional lavatory
facilities. No adult materials or live performances shall be provided or
allowed at any time in the restrooms of an adult entertainment establishment.
Separate male and female restrooms shall be provided for and used by adult
establishment employees and adult establishment patrons.
   F.   Restricted Access: No adult entertainment establishment patron shall be
permitted at any time to enter into any of the nonpublic portions of any adult
entertainment establishment, including specifically, but without limitation,
any storage areas or dressing or other rooms provided for the benefit of adult
establishment employees. No such patron shall be permitted in any area not
available to the general public. This subsection shall not apply to persons
delivering goods and materials, food and beverages, or performing maintenance
or repairs to the licensed premises; provided, however, that any such persons
shall remain in such nonpublic areas only for the purposes and to the extent
and time necessary to perform their job duties.
   G.   Specific Prohibited Acts:
      1.   No adult establishment employee or any other person at any adult
entertainment establishment shall appear, be present, or perform while nude.
      2.   No adult establishment employee at any adult entertainment
establishment shall perform or conduct any specified sexual activity with or
for any adult establishment patron. No adult establishment patron at any adult
entertainment establishment shall perform or conduct any specified sexual
activity with or for any adult establishment employee or any other adult
establishment patron.
      3.   Straddle dances shall be prohibited at all adult entertainment
establishments.
   H.   Exterior Display: No adult entertainment establishment shall be
maintained or operated in any manner that causes, creates, or allows public
viewing of any adult material, or any entertainment depicting, describing, or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, from any
sidewalk, public or private right of way, or any property other than the lot or
parcel on which the licensed premises is located. No portion of the exterior of
an adult entertainment establishment shall utilize or contain any flashing
lights, searchlights, or spotlights, or any other similar lighting systems, or
any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes, drawings, or pictorial
representations of any manner except to the extent specifically set forth in
subsection I of this Section with regard to signs. This subsection shall apply
to any advertisement, display, promotional material, merchandise, decoration,
or sign; to any performance or show; and to any window, door or other opening.
   I.   Signage Limitations: All signs for adult entertainment establishments
shall be flat wall signs. The maximum allowable sign area shall be one square
foot of sign area per foot of lot frontage on a street, but in no event
exceeding thirty two (32) square feet. The maximum number of signs shall be one
per lot frontage. Signs otherwise permitted pursuant to this Chapter shall
contain only: 1) the name of the adult entertainment establishment; and/or 2)
the specific type of adult entertainment establishment conducted on the
licensed premises. Temporary signage shall not be permitted in connection with
any adult entertainment establishment.
   J.   Noise: No loudspeakers or sound equipment audible beyond the licensed
premises shall be used at any time.
   K.   Gambling And Related Devices Prohibited: No adult entertainment
establishment shall contain any video, pinball, slot, bagatelle, pigeonhole,
pool, or any other games, machines, tables, or implements.
   L.   Manager's Station: Each adult entertainment establishment shall have
one or more manager's stations. The interior of each adult entertainment
establishment shall be configured in such a manner that there is a direct and
substantially unobstructed view from at least one manager's station to every
part of each area, except into restrooms, of the establishment to which any
adult establishment patron is permitted access for any purpose.
   M.   Alcohol Prohibition: No alcoholic liquor of any kind shall be sold,
used, consumed, or possessed at any time on any licensed premises or at any
adult entertainment establishment. (Ord. 98-08, 4-22-1998)
13-3-11: SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT BOOTHS:
   A.   Prohibited Except In Adult Stores: Adult booths shall be prohibited in
all adult entertainment establishments except adult stores.
   B.   Occupancy And Prohibited Acts: Only one individual shall occupy an
adult booth at any one time. No individual occupying an adult booth shall
engage in any specified sexual activities. No individual shall damage or deface
any portion of an adult booth.
   C.   Open Booth Requirement: In addition to satisfying the requirement of
subsection
13-3-10L of this Chapter, all adult stores containing adult booths shall be
physically arranged in such a manner that the entire interior portion of each
adult booth shall be visible from the common area of the adult store. To
satisfy this requirement, there shall be a permanently open and unobstructed
entranceway for each adult booth and for the entranceway from the area of the
adult store that provides other adult materials to the area of the adult store
containing the adult booths. Each of these entranceways shall not be capable of
being closed or obstructed, entirely or partially, by any door, curtain,
partition, drapes, or any other obstruction whatsoever that would be capable of
wholly or partially obscuring any person situated in an adult booth. It shall
be unlawful to install adult booths within an adult entertainment establishment
for the purpose of providing secluded viewing of adult materials or live
performances.
   D.   Aisle Required: There shall be one continuous lighted main aisle
alongside the adult booths provided in any adult store. Each person situated in
a booth shall be visible at all times from the aisle.
   E.   Holes Prohibited: Except for the open booth entranceway, the walls and
partitions of each adult booth shall be constructed and maintained of solid
walls or partitions without any holes or openings whatsoever.
   F.   Signage: A sign shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entranceway to each adult booth that states: 1) that only one person is allowed
in an adult booth at any one time; 2) that it is unlawful to engage in any
specified sexual activities while in an adult booth; and 3) that it is unlawful
to damage or deface any portion of an adult booth. (Ord. 98-08, 4-22-1998)
13-3-12: SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT CABARETS:
   A.   Performance Area: The performance area of an adult cabaret shall be
limited to one or more stages or platforms permanently anchored to the floor (a
"cabaret stage"). Each cabaret stage shall be at least eighteen inches (18") in
elevation above the level of the patron seating areas. Each cabaret stage shall
be separated by a distance of at least eight feet (8') from all areas of the
premises to which adult entertainment patrons have access. A continuous barrier
at least three feet (3') in height and located at least eight feet (8') from
all points of each cabaret stage shall separate each cabaret stage from all
patron seating areas. The barrier shall consist of horizontal or vertical
members spaced no more than nine inches (9") apart and nine inches (9") from
the floor or the walls to which it is attached.
   B.   Lighting: Sufficient lighting shall be provided and equally distributed
throughout the public areas of the adult cabaret so that all objects are
plainly visible at all times. A minimum lighting level of not less than 30 lux
horizontal, measured at thirty inches (30") from the floor and on ten foot
(10') centers shall be maintained at all times for all areas of the adult
cabaret where adult establishment patrons are admitted.
   C.   Tipping: No tip or gratuity from any adult establishment patron may be
offered or accepted for any performance by an adult establishment employee on
any adult cabaret stage at any time prior to the completion of any such
performance. No adult establishment patron shall offer, and no adult
establishment employee having performed on any cabaret stage shall accept, any
form of tip or gratuity offered directly to the employee by the adult
establishment patron. Rather, following completion of a performance, all tips
and gratuities to adult establishment employees performing on any cabaret stage
shall be placed into a receptacle provided for receipt of such tips and
gratuities by the adult entertainment establishment.
   D.   Notice Of Select Rules: A sign at least two feet by two feet (2' x 2'),
with letters at least one inch (1") high shall be conspicuously displayed on or
adjacent to every cabaret stage stating the following:
THIS ADULT CABARET IS REGULATED BY THE VILLAGE OF GREEN OAKS. ENTERTAINERS ARE:
1.   NOT PERMITTED TO ENGAGE IN ANY TYPE OF SEXUAL CONDUCT.
2.   NOT PERMITTED TO APPEAR IN A STATE OF NUDITY.
3.   NOT PERMITTED TO ACCEPT TIPS OR GRATUITIES FOR ANY PERFORMANCE UNTIL AFTER
COMPLETION OF THE PERFORMANCE.
4.   NOT PERMITTED TO ACCEPT ANY TIPS DIRECTLY FROM PATRONS EVEN AFTER
COMPLETION OF THE PERFORMANCE. ANY SUCH TIPS MUST BE PLACED INTO THE RECEPTACLE
PROVIDED BY MANAGEMENT.
(Ord. 98-08, 4-22-1998)
13-3-13: SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT STORES:
Window areas for adult stores shall not be covered or obstructed in any way. No
signs or other obstructions shall be placed in the windows. Goods and
merchandise shall not be displayed so as to be observed from public sidewalks,
roadways or rights of way if such goods or merchandise, when so displayed, show
specified anatomical areas and/or specified sexual activities. (Ord. 98-08, 4-
22-1998)
13-3-14: SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT THEATERS:
   A.   Seating: Each adult theater shall provide seating only in individual
chairs with arms or in seats separated from each other by immovable arms and
not on couches, benches, or any other multiple person seating accommodations.
The number of seats shall not exceed the maximum number of persons who may
occupy the adult theater. No standing or sitting on the floor during the show
or performance shall be permitted.
   B.   Aisle: Each adult theater shall have a continuous main aisle alongside
the seating area in order that each person seated in the adult theater shall be
visible from the aisle at all times.
   C.   Sign: Each adult theater shall have a sign posted in a conspicuous
place at or near each entranceway to the auditorium or similar area that lists
the maximum number of persons who may occupy the auditorium area, which number
shall not exceed the number of seats in the auditorium area. (Ord. 98-08, 4-22-
1998)
13-3-15: LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITY FOR EMPLOYEES:
Every act or omission by an adult establishment employee constituting a
violation of the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed to be the act or
omission of the licensee if such act or omission occurs either with the
authorization, knowledge, or approval of the licensee, or as a result of the
licensee's negligent failure to supervise the adult establishment employee. The
licensee shall be punishable to the fullest extent provided by law for any such
act or omission in the same manner as if the licensee committed the act or
caused the omission. Accordingly, any such act or omission of any such employee
constituting a violation of the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed for
purposes of determining whether the licensee's adult entertainment
establishment license shall be revoked, suspended, or renewed to be the act or
omission of the licensee. This subsection shall not be construed to be a
limitation upon the Adult Use Commissioner or Commission to take into
consideration during any license renewal, suspension or revocation proceedings,
evidence of any acts or omissions occurring upon or stemming from the adult
entertainment establishment premises for which the licensee may be responsible
under the provisions of this Section. (Ord. 98-08, 4-22-1998)
13-3-16: LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
   A.   Grounds: Pursuant to the procedures set forth in subsection B of this
Section, the Adult Use Commissioner may suspend for not more than thirty (30)
days, or revoke, any adult establishment license if the Adult Use Commissioner,
based on credible and reasonably reliable information and evidence, determines
that any one or more of the following has occurred:
      1.   The licensee has violated any of the provisions or requirements of
this Chapter or the adult establishment license issued pursuant hereto, or the
provisions of the Village Zoning Ordinance and regulations or building life-
safety codes applicable to the licensed premises or the adult entertainment
establishment.
      2.   The licensee: a) knowingly or negligently furnished false or
misleading information or withheld information on any application or other
document submitted to the Village for the issuance or renewal of any adult
establishment license; or b) knowingly or negligently caused or suffered any
other person to furnish or withhold any such information on the licensee's
behalf.
      3.   The licensee has committed a felony or specified criminal act on the
licensed premises.
      4.   The licensee authorizes, approves, or, as a result of the licensee's
negligent failure to supervise the licensed premises or the adult entertainment
establishment, allows an adult establishment employee, an adult establishment
patron, or any other person to: a) violate any of the provisions or
requirements of this Chapter or of the provisions or requirements of the adult
establishment license issued pursuant hereto; or b) commit any felony or
specified criminal act on the licensed premises.
      5.   The licensee, or any person identified pursuant to subsection
13-3-5C1 or C2 of this Chapter becomes disqualified for the issuance of an
adult establishment license at any time during the term of the license at
issue.
      6.   The licensee fails to timely provide supplemental or additional
information to the license application on file with the Village as such
supplemental or additional information is required under the provisions of this
Chapter.
   B.   Procedure: An adult entertainment establishment license may be
suspended for not more than thirty (30) days or revoked pursuant to the terms
and conditions set forth in this subsection.
      1.   Notice: Upon determining that one or more of the grounds for
suspension or revocation under subsection A of this Section may exist, the
Adult Use Commissioner shall serve a written notice on the licensee in person
or by certified U.S. mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed
to the licensee's address as set forth in the licensee's application. The
written notice shall, at a minimum: a) state that the Adult Use Commissioner
has determined that the adult establishment license may be subject to
suspension or revocation pursuant to subsection A of this Section; b) identify
the specific grounds for the Adult Use Commissioner's determination; and c) set
a date for a hearing regarding the Adult Use Commissioner's determination as to
the possibility of suspension or revocation of the adult establishment license.
The date of the hearing shall be no less than five (5) days after service of
the Adult Use Commissioner's notice, unless an earlier or later date is agreed
to by the licensee and the Adult Use Commissioner.
      2.   Hearing: The hearing shall be conducted by the Adult Use
Commissioner, or, at the Adult Use Commissioner's direction, by the Adult Use
Commission. At the hearing, the licensee may present and submit evidence and
witnesses to refute the grounds cited by the Adult Use Commissioner for
suspending or revoking the license and the Village and any other persons may
submit evidence to sustain such grounds. The administrative record compiled on
the adult entertainment establishment pursuant to Section
13-3-17 of this Chapter shall be made part of the hearing record. Within three
(3) days after the close of the hearing, the Adult Use Commissioner shall,
having considered the record made at the hearing, render a decision in writing,
setting forth the reasons for the decision. The action taken by the Adult Use
Commissioner shall be final and shall be subject to judicial review.
      3.   Notice Of Suspension Or Revocation: The Adult Use Commissioner's
written decision shall be posted at the office of the Adult Use Commissioner
and shall be served on the licensee in person or by certified U.S. mail,
postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the licensee's address
as set forth in the licensee's application. The suspension or revocation, as
the case may be, shall take effect immediately upon service of the Adult Use
Commissioner's written decision, or if the license is unavailable for or
refuses or avoids service, then the decision shall take effect twenty four (24)
hours after its posting.
      4.   Surrender Of License And Bond: Upon the suspension or revocation of
an adult establishment license pursuant to this Chapter, the Adult Use
Commissioner shall take custody of the suspended or revoked license. (Ord. 98-
08, 4-22-1998)
13-3-17: ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD:
The Adult Use Commissioner shall cause to be kept in the Adult Use
Commissioner's office an accurate record of every adult entertainment license
application received and acted on, together with all relevant information and
material pertaining to such application, any adult establishment license issued
pursuant thereto, and any adult entertainment establishment operated pursuant
to such adult establishment license. (Ord. 98-08, 4-22-1998)
13-3-18: EMPLOYEE REGISTRATION AND RECORD KEEPING:
   A.   Registration: The licensee of every adult entertainment establishment
shall register each of the licensee's adult establishment employees with the
Adult Use Commissioner by providing the following information to the Adult Use
Commissioner no later than the business day immediately preceding the day of
commencement of the employee's employment at the adult entertainment
establishment:
      1.   Legal name.
      2.   Any and all aliases.
      3.   Current residential address and telephone number, and all
residential addresses for the previous three (3) years.
      4.   Date of birth.
      5.   Gender, height, weight, hair and eye color.
      6.   Social security number.
      7.   Date of commencement of employment.
      8.   Specific job or employment duties.
      9.   Whether the employee, within three (3) years immediately preceding
the date of registration, has been convicted of any specified criminal act. As
to each such conviction, the licensee shall provide the conviction date, the
nature of the conviction, and the name and location of the court.
      10.   The names of each governmental body, including the county, from
which, within three (3) years immediately preceding the date of registration,
the employee has received an adult establishment license, or any other official
authorization to operate or to be employed at, an adult entertainment
establishment or a business substantially the same as an adult entertainment
establishment. For each such license or authorization, the licensee shall
provide the name and address of the business.
      11.   Whether the employee has had any such license or authorization
revoked or suspended, and, if so, the date and grounds for each such revocation
or suspension, and the name and location of the establishment at issue.
   B.   Employee Register: The licensee of every adult entertainment
establishment shall maintain a register of all of its adult establishment
employees. For each such employee, the register shall include the following
information:
      1.   Legal name.
      2.   Any and all aliases.
      3.   Current residential address and telephone number.
      4.   Date of birth.
      5.   Gender.
      6.   Social security number.
      7.   Date of commencement of employment.
      8.   Date of employment termination, if applicable.
      9.   Specific job or employment duties.
      10.   Wage rate, both current and historical.
      11.   Tip income, through the end of the last regular pay period.
The register shall be maintained for all current employees and all employees
employed at any time during the preceding thirty six (36) months. The licensee
shall make the register of its adult establishment employees available for
inspection by the Village immediately upon demand at all reasonable times. All
registration information obtained by the Village shall be considered
confidential, private and personal information and shall not be disclosed to
the media or members of the public under the Freedom of Information Act. (Ord.
98-08, 4-22-1998)
13-3-19: PENALTY:
Any person who violates, neglects, refuses to comply with, or assists or
participates in any way in the violation of any of the provisions or
requirements of this Chapter or of any of the provisions or requirements of any
adult entertainment establishment license, shall be fined not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such violation. Each day such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. The Adult Use
Commissioner shall give written notice to any such person of any such violation
and the fine imposed by serving a citation in person or by certified U.S. mail,
postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the licensee's address
as set forth in the licensee's application. (Ord. 98-08, 4-22-1998)
13-3-20: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any adult entertainment establishment established, operated, or maintained in
violation of any of the provisions or requirements of this Chapter or of any
adult establishment license shall be, and the same is, declared to be unlawful
and a public nuisance. The Village may, in addition to or in lieu of any other
remedies set forth in this Chapter, commence an action to enjoin, remove, or
abate such nuisance in the manner provided by law and shall take such other
steps and apply to such court or courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such
relief as will abate or remove such public nuisance, and restrain and enjoin
any person from establishing, operating, or maintaining an adult entertainment
establishment contrary to the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 98-08, 4-22-
1998)
13-3-21: COMPUTATION OF TIME:
Unless otherwise specifically set forth in this Chapter, the time within which
any act required by this Chapter is to be done shall be computed by excluding
the first day and including the last day, unless the last day is Saturday,
Sunday or a Federal or State holiday, in which case it shall also be excluded.
If the day immediately following such Saturday, Sunday, or holiday is also a
Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, then such succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(Ord. 98-08, 4-22-1998)
CHAPTER 4
KENNELS, PET SHOPS AND VETERINARY HOSPITALS
SECTION:
13-4-1: Definitions
13-4-2: License Required
13-4-3: Application For License
13-4-4: Sanitation Requirements; Inspection
13-4-5: Required Monitoring Of Animals
13-4-6: Compliance With State Law
13-4-7: Penalties
13-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
KENNELS AND PET SHOPS: Any establishment which is used solely for the raising,
training, boarding or selling of dogs, cats, birds, mice, hamsters, as well as
all other types of small animals, for hire or profit, or where more than three
(3) dogs, cats or like animals are harbored or kept.
VETERINARY HOSPITAL: Any institution, place or enclosure used for the harboring
or reception for care and treatment of two (2) or more dogs, cats or other
animals. (Ord. 2007-O-1, 2-28-2007)
13-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate a kennel, pet shop or veterinary hospital
anywhere within the corporate limits of the village without first securing a
license therefor. The annual license fee shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00).
In any circumstance where multiple licenses are required, each kennel, pet shop
or veterinary hospital within the village shall be required to obtain only one
license, but shall be required to comply with all applicable regulations
contained in this chapter or elsewhere. The license fee required to be paid for
any kennel, pet shop or veterinary hospital which is subject to two (2) or more
licenses shall be the largest of those applicable. A business shall be
considered to be individual only if it is owned by identical persons or
entities, is contained within one single building, and conducts activities
which are closely related. (Ord. 2007-O-1, 2-28-2007)
13-4-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for a veterinary hospital license, a kennel license or pet shop
license shall be made in conformity with the general requirements of this code
relating to applications for licenses. Upon the application being made, the
building commissioner of the village shall cause an investigation to be made of
the premises named and described in the application for the purpose of
determining the fitness and suitability of the premises for such business from
a sanitary standpoint. (Ord. 2007-O-1, 2-28-2007)
13-4-4: SANITATION REQUIREMENTS; INSPECTION:
Every place or business establishment used as a kennel, pet shop, or veterinary
hospital shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be kept free
of accumulated decaying food, refuse, waste materials, or filth of any kind.
All animals shall be humanely treated and any animal having any communicable
disease shall be properly isolated and treated. All parts of the building,
premises or enclosures shall be disinfected daily and shall be kept in a
sanitary condition. The building commissioner or health officer periodically
shall inspect each such place to determine whether the provisions of this code
regulating health and sanitation are being complied with. (Ord. 2007-O-1, 2-28-
2007)
13-4-5: REQUIRED MONITORING OF ANIMALS:
At all times of operation, any place or business establishment used as a
kennel, pet shop, or veterinary hospital shall implement the necessary and
reasonable measures to maintain and promote the security of the animals on
site. It shall be unlawful to operate any veterinary hospital unless such
hospital has at least one licensed veterinarian available at all times. (Ord.
2007-O-1, 2-28-2007)
13-4-6: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
Every place or business establishment used as a kennel, pet shop or veterinary
hospital shall comply with all applicable Illinois state statutes and
regulations pertaining thereto. No such place or business establishment shall
be licensed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter that is in violation of
any such Illinois state statute or regulation. Any such place or business
establishment in violation of any such Illinois state statute or regulation may
have any license issued pursuant to this chapter suspended or revoked as
provided herein. (Ord. 2007-O-1, 2-28-2007)
13-4-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Unless otherwise expressly provided, any person convicted of violating
any provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each day
that a violation exists. Each day that a violation of this chapter shall exist
shall be considered a separate violation.
   B.   Whenever a person shall neglect or refuse to procure any license
required by this chapter, or otherwise violates the terms of this chapter, the
village president is authorized to cause appropriate legal or equitable action
and proceedings to be instituted to enforce the license requirement.
   C.   The village president shall take all necessary and appropriate action
to compel compliance with the regulatory provisions of this chapter. When
necessary and expedient, he may call upon the appropriate law enforcement
official to assist in such enforcement.
   D.   It is declared by the corporate authorities that the maintaining,
operating or continuation of any kennel, pet shop or veterinary hospital
requiring a license under this chapter or any other ordinance without actual
issuance to and possession by the licensee of the license granted, is a public
nuisance. Any such public nuisance may be abated by an action for any or all of
the remedies of penalty pursuant to the penalty provisions of this chapter,
temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction, and permanent injunction
or other equivalent legal remedy. The remedies provided for herein and any
other provision of law are deemed cumulative and not exclusive. Each day that a
violation of this chapter shall exist shall be considered a separate violation.
   E.   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
suspended or revoked for any violation of this chapter pursuant to the
procedures in section
13-2-13 of this title. (Ord. 2007-O-1, 2-28-2007)
CHAPTER 5
LICENSED VIDEO GAMING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
13-5-1: Qualified Exemption From Gaming
13-5-2: Video Gaming Establishment License
13-5-3: Video Gaming Terminal Permit Sticker And Fee
13-5-4: Regulations For Operating Video Gaming Terminals
13-5-5: Inspection Of Premises
13-5-6: Revocation/Suspension Of License And Permit Sticker
13-5-7: Seizure Of Unlawful Video Gaming Terminals
13-5-8: Video Gaming Signage Prohibited
13-5-9: Monetary Penalty; Other Penalties
13-5-1: QUALIFIED EXEMPTION FROM GAMING:
   A.   Licensed Video Gaming Exemption: The prohibitions of this title and any
other chapter or section of this code that may reference or govern gambling or
gaming shall not apply to any video gaming terminal that has a valid video
gaming terminal permit sticker and is being operated by a licensed liquor
establishment which holds a valid village video gaming establishment license
and is in full compliance with this chapter.
   B.   Definitions:
 
                                   Any establishment which holds a valid
                                   village license to sell liquor at retail for
                                   consumption on the licensed premises under
                                   title 10, "Liquor Control", of this code and
LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT OR LICENSED licensed by the Illinois gaming board to
PREMISES:                          operate a video gaming terminal on its
                                   premises. For purposes of this Chapter 13-5,
                                   this definition also includes "Truck Stops"
                                   as that term is used under the Illinois
                                   Video Gaming Act.
                                   Any electronic video game machine that, upon
                                   insertion of cash, is available to play or
                                   simulate the play of a video game,
                                   including, but not limited to, video poker,
                                   line up, and blackjack, utilizing a video
                                   display and microprocessors in which the
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL:             player may receive free games, receipts or
                                   credits which can be redeemed for cash. The
                                   definition of "video gaming terminal" does
                                   not include a machine that directly
                                   dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for
                                   amusement purposes only. (Ord. 2014-O-01, 3-
                                   26-2014; amd. Ord. 2022-O-01, 1-26-2022)
 
13-5-2: VIDEO GAMING ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE:
It shall be unlawful for a licensed establishment to operate any video gaming
terminal, unless the licensed establishment obtains and maintains a valid video
gaming terminal permit sticker from the village for each video gaming terminal
to be operated on the licensed premises. The burden is upon each applicant to
demonstrate its suitability and qualifications for the permit sticker. All
video gaming terminal stickers issued hereunder shall expire on December 31
after date of issue. A video gaming terminal sticker shall be purely a personal
privilege, good for a time period not to exceed the sooner to occur of one year
after issuance or December 31 following the date of issuance, unless sooner
revoked as provided by law, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be
subject to attachment, garnishment, or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered by
any interest other than the interest of the applicant. (Ord. 2014-O-01, 3-26-
2014)
13-5-3: VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL PERMIT STICKER AND FEE:
In order for any video gaming terminal to be operated at a licensed
establishment, the licensed establishment is required to obtain an annual video
gaming terminal permit sticker from the village for each video gaming terminal
located on its premises by submitting a written application, on a form provided
by the village, to the liquor commissioner or his designee. Each video gaming
terminal permit sticker issued by the village shall expire December 31 after
date of issue, with an annual fee of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00)
per video gaming terminal payable in full at the time the original or renewal
application is filed with the village. The permit sticker fee shall not be
prorated for a partial year. Renewal of the video gaming terminal permit
stickers shall be made before January 1 of each year. (Ord. 2014-O-01, 3-26-
2014; amd. Ord. 2022-O-01, 1-26-2022)
13-5-4: REGULATIONS FOR OPERATING VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS:
   A.   The following regulations apply to all licensed establishments
operating a video gaming terminal on the licensed premises with a valid video
gaming terminal permit sticker for each video gaming terminal:
      1.   A valid Illinois gaming board video gaming license must be clearly
displayed at all times.
      2.   A valid village video gaming terminal permit sticker shall be
clearly displayed at all times on each video gaming terminal on the licensed
premises whether operational or not.
      3.   No more than five (5) video gaming terminals may be located on the
licensed premises.
      4.   Other than having up to five (5) video gaming terminals with valid
video gaming terminal permit stickers, a licensed establishment is prohibited
from having, anywhere on its premises, an electronic video gaming machine which
may be available to play or simulate the play of poker, line up, blackjack,
faro, roulette, craps, slots, or any other card or dice game or other game of
chance, or that is otherwise similar to a gambling or gaming device under this
code, even if solely for amusement purposes.
      5.   All video gaming terminals must be located in an area restricted to
persons twenty one (21) years of age or older. The entrance to such area must,
at all times, be within the view of at least one employee of the licensee who
is at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      6.   No licensed establishment may cause, suffer or permit any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years to use, play or operate a video gaming
terminal.
      7.   No video gaming terminal may be played except during the legal hours
of operation allowed for the consumption of alcoholic beverages at the licensed
establishment pursuant to title 10, "Liquor Control", of this code.
      8.   The licensed establishment must fully comply with the Illinois video
gaming act 1 , as amended and all rules, regulations and restrictions imposed
by the Illinois gaming board.
      9.   The licensed establishment must fully comply with title 10, "Liquor
Control", of this code and all other provisions of this code as well as any
applicable federal and Illinois laws or regulations. (Ord. 2014-O-01, 3-26-
2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
13-5-5: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
   A.   Every licensed establishment where a video gaming terminal is kept
shall be subject to inspection by the designated police authority for the
village of Green Oaks or the designated code enforcement official of the
village, at any time, to ensure compliance with this code. This includes
licensed establishments applying for a video gaming establishment license and/
or video gaming terminal permit sticker. It shall be unlawful for any person to
hinder, resist, oppose or attempt to hinder, resist or oppose the designated
police authority for the village of Green Oaks or the designated code
enforcement official of the village or their/his/her respective agents in the
course of an inspection. (Ord. 2014-O-01, 3-26-2014)
13-5-6: REVOCATION/SUSPENSION OF LICENSE AND PERMIT STICKER:
The liquor commissioner may revoke or suspend any video gaming terminal permit
sticker issued by the village if the liquor commissioner determines that the
licensed establishment has violated any of the provisions of title 10 of this
code, any other provision of this code, or any other applicable state or
federal statute or applicable regulation. No video gaming terminal permit shall
be revoked or suspended, except after a public hearing before the liquor
commissioner, with a three (3) day written notice to the licensed
establishment, served upon the liquor licensee or the licensee's manager of the
licensed premises. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any licensed establishment
which has its liquor license forfeited, revoked, or suspended by the village or
by the Illinois state liquor commission, or has its state video gaming license
revoked or suspended by the Illinois gaming board, shall forthwith, without a
hearing before the liquor commissioner, have all of its village video gaming
terminal permit stickers revoked or suspended for the duration for which its
liquor and/or Illinois gaming board gaming license is suspended, as the case
may be. (Ord. 2014-O-01, 3-26-2014)
13-5-7: SEIZURE OF UNLAWFUL VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS:
Every video gaming terminal which does not have a valid video gaming terminal
permit sticker or is otherwise unlawful shall be considered a gambling device
subject to seizure and shall be turned over to the Illinois gaming board, in
accordance with board regulations and applicable law, unless otherwise ordered
by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2014-O-01, 3-26-2014)
13-5-8: VIDEO GAMING SIGNAGE PROHIBITED:
There shall be no external signage, or inside signage visible from the outside,
advertising the availability of video gaming. (Ord. 2014-O-01, 3-26-2014)
13-5-9: MONETARY PENALTY; OTHER PENALTIES:
Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of
not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a first offense in any twelve
(12) month period, and a fine of not less than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for a second offense and each subsequent offense in a twelve (12)
month period. This penalty may be enforced by issuance of a "notice of
violation" for the fine amount, or by issuance of a "notice to appear". Each
day any violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. This monetary
penalty shall be in addition to any and all other remedies, penalties or
actions which may be available to the village under any other provision of this
code including, but not limited to, an action for violation of these
regulations and the local liquor license regulations of the village of Green
Oaks or under Illinois or federal law. (Ord. 2014-O-01, 3-26-2014)
CHAPTER 6
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
SECTION:
13-6-1: Definitions
13-6-2: Prohibited
13-6-3: Public Nuisance Declared
13-6-4: Violations
13-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this chapter, have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section, as follows:
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: A cultivation center, craft grower,
processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization or
transporting organization.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (PA
101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis- infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (PA 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (PA 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (PA 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to- time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (PA 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (PA 101-0027),
as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization or legal entity, including any owner, manager, proprietor,
employee, volunteer or agent. (Ord. 2019-O-17, 8-28-2019)
13-6-2: PROHIBITED:
The following adult-use cannabis business establishments are prohibited in the
Village of Green Oaks, Illinois. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer,
allow to be operated or aide, abet or assist in the operation within the
Village of Green Oaks of any of the following:
Adult-use cannabis craft grower.
Adult-use cannabis cultivation center.
Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization.
Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser.
Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor.
Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter. (Ord. 2019-O-17,
8-28-2019)
13-6-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the Village
in violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared a public
nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies. (Ord. 2019-O-
17, 8-28-2019)
13-6-4: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of this chapter shall be enforced in accordance with the general
penalty provisions of title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-O-17, 8-28-
2019)
CHAPTER 7
SHORT TERM RENTALS PROHIBITED
SECTION:
13-7-1: Definitions
13-7-2: Short-Term Rentals Prohibited
13-7-3: Penalties
13-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Chapter, the following phrases shall have the definitions
as set forth below:
 
                   All or part of a principal structure or accessory structure
RENTAL PREMISES:   being rented or otherwise let to person(s) other than the
                   owner of the subject property.
                   The accessory use and/or occupancy for overnight human
                   accommodation for a period of less than twelve (12) months
                   of a principal structure or accessory structure pursuant to
                   a written or oral agreement which permits and/or provides
SHORT-TERM RENTAL: for occupancy of all or part of such structure by any person
                   other than the owner thereof, or an immediate family member
                   of the owner thereof, and whether or not the permission of
                   such occupancy is in exchange for consideration therefor.
                   (Ord. 2021-O-11, 7-28-2021)
 
13-7-2: SHORT-TERM RENTALS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided herein, leasing, renting, offering or
inviting the leasing or renting, or otherwise permitting the short term rental
and/or occupancy of any dwelling and/or accessory structure located within the
Village for less than twelve (12) consecutive months at a time shall be
prohibited, with the exception of a hotel or similar establishment duly
licensed by the Village, and such conduct shall be prohibited, whether engaged
in or participated in by the owner(s) of the property, one or more agent(s) of
the property owner(s), and/or by any person(s) leasing, or seeking to lease as
a lessor(s), or renting or seeking to rent as lessee(s) and/or otherwise occupy
a premises as tenant(s) and/or temporary occupant(s) thereof.
   B.   The term of any lease or occupancy agreement which has satisfied the
minimum term required by this section may be extended on a month-to-month basis
on the condition that the tenant(s) remain(s) the same.
   C.   Dwellings shall not be leased, or otherwise permitted to be occupied by
other than the same tenant, more than two (2) times during any consecutive
twelve (12) month period unless the rental agreement therefor has been
terminated by reason of a tenant default.
   D.   The restrictions of this chapter shall be applicable whether the rental
premises comprise(s) all or part of the principal structure, or all or part of
any accessory structure.
   E.   Whether or not consideration is exchanged for the lease and/or rental
premises shall not affect the fact that the occupancy thereof is treated as a
short-term rental for the purposes of this chapter if the definition thereof is
otherwise appliable to such activity.
   F.   The property owner shall remain responsible for compliance with all
applicable provisions of this code and/or the Village zoning ordinance during
the term of any rental and/or occupancy agreement and/or during the term of any
occupancy of the rental premises by persons other than the property owner.
   G.   No temporary structure shall be permitted to be used for a short-term
rental.
   H.   The prohibition on short term rentals as herein provided shall not
apply when the immediately preceding owner of a property maintains possession
of the dwelling unit after closing on a real estate transaction for the sale
thereof and leases said property back from the successor owner for a period of
time pursuant to written agreement.
   I.   Each day a principal structure or any accessory structure in the
Village is offered for rent as a short-term rental, is leased or rented as a
short-term rental, and/or each day a principal structure or any accessory
structure is occupied as a "short term rental", as that term is defined herein,
shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2021-O-11, 7-28-
2021)
13-7-3: PENALTIES:
Notwithstanding anything otherwise provided in this code to the contrary, any
person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to a mandatory fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day, nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per day. Each day a principal
structure or any accessory structure is offered for rent as a short-term
rental, is leased or rented as a short-term rental, and/or each day a principal
structure or any accessory structure is occupied as a short-term rental shall
constitute a separate violation of this Chapter. Without limitation on the
foregoing, each day a violation of this chapter occurs or continues shall be a
sperate offense, and each such offense shall be subject to not less than the
minimum mandatory daily fine. (Ord. 2021-O-11, 7-28-2021)
