COUNTY CODE
of
GRUNDY COUNTY, ILLINOIS
2004
Code current through:
Ord. 2023-013, passed 8-8-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This County Code of Grundy County, as supplemented, contains ordinances and
resolutions up to and including ordinance 2023-013, passed August 8, 2023, and
resolution 2019-017, passed March 12, 2019. Ordinances and resolutions of the
County adopted after said ordinance and resolution supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the County office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 05-004
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A GRUNDY COUNTY CODE:
   PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN MATERIALS NOT INCLUDED THEREIN:
   PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING AND SUPPLEMENTING SUCH CODE; AND
PROVIDING WHEN SUCH CODE AND THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.
BE IT ORDAINED by the county board of Grundy County, Illinois as follows:
   Section 1: The Grundy County code of ordinances, consisting of titles 1
through 9, each inclusive, with the attached highway access ordinance, changes
as shown in ordinance no. 04-022 dated September 14, 2004, changes as shown in
ordinance no. 04-023 dated October 12, 2004, changes as shown in ordinance. no.
05-001 dated January 11, 2005, changes as shown in ordinance no. 05-002 dated
January 11, 2005, and changes as shown in ordinance no. 05-003 dated February
8, 2005, and is hereby enacted pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/5-29001 et seq., as the
Grundy County code, which code shall supersede all general and permanent
ordinances of the county adopted on or before March 8, 2005, to the extent
provided in section 2 hereof.
   Section 2: All provisions of the Grundy County code shall be in full force
and effect from and after March 8, 2005, and all ordinances and resolutions of
a general and permanent nature of the Grundy County code, adopted on final
passage on or before March 7, 2005 and not included in such code or recognized
and continued in force by reference therein, are hereby repealed from and after
the effective date of such code.
   Section 3: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed and the repeal provided for in
section 2 and section 3 hereof shall not be construed to revive any ordinance
or resolution or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance
or resolution which is repealed by this ordinance.
   Section 4: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
Grundy County code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance
provision and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated
by the governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the
continuous effectiveness of ordinances included in said official Grundy County
code. All ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond
ordinances, franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall
continue in full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a
provision of the county code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included
in the official county code.
   Section 5: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in
any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the county to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: A violation of any provision of the Grundy County code hereby
adopted shall be an offense punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of the county code, and each day of such violation shall constitute a
separate offense, or shall be an offense as provided in any other applicable
section of the code.
   Section 6: Any and all additions and amendments to the Grundy County code,
when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the county board to
make the same a part of such code, shall be deemed to be incorporated in such
code, so that reference to such code shall be understood and intended to
include such additions and amendments.
   Section 7: In the case of the amendment of any section of the Grundy County
code for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty, as provided in
section
1-4-1 of the Grundy County code shall apply to the section as amended, or in
case such amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the
aforementioned general penalty is provided in another section of the same
title, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to relate to
the section so amended, unless such penalty is repealed therein.
   Section 8: Any ordinance or resolutions adopted after March 8, 2005, which
amends or refers to ordinances or resolutions which have been codified in the
Grundy County code, shall be construed as if they amend or refer to like
provisions of such code.
This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded and shall be
in full force and effect from and after its passage and approval.
PASSED and APPROVED this 8th day of March, 2005.
Aye   16
Nay    0
Abstain   0
            Paul B. Nelson
            Paul B. Nelson
            Chairman Grundy County Board
ATTESTED:   Lana J. Phillips
      Lana J. Phillips
      Grundy County Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the county board, this county code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official county code of Grundy County.
This county code of ordinances shall be known and cited as THE GRUNDY COUNTY
CODE and is hereby published by authority of the county board and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the county as
provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this county code by title in any legal documents. (2004 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The county code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the county of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2004 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the county code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this county code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this county code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the county code. (2004 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this county code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while
in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the county and shall be returned to the office of the
county clerk when directed so to do by order of the county board. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Ordinances Repealed And Ordinances Saved From Repeal: All general
ordinances of the county passed prior to the adoption of this county code are
hereby repealed, except such as are included in this county code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, public ways or other public places in
the county; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the county; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Limitations On Repeal: The repeal of the ordinances, as provided in
subsection A of this section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2004 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this county code or by virtue of
section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as the county code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this county code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2004 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current And Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the county herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the county under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this county code. (2004 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this county code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The county board
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this county code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this county code by words importing the
singular number only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or
persons and the opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this county code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the county has been
changed in the content of this county code to "title", "chapter", "article",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the county's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2004
Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The Grundy County code.
COUNTY: The county of Grundy in the state of Illinois.
COUNTY BOARD OR BOARD: The county board of Grundy County, Illinois.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a county employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
county of Grundy".
GENDER: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied
to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
ILCS: Illinois Compiled Statutes, as amended.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the county, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the county.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a county officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the county of
Grundy".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: The word "owner", applied to a building or land shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or
tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
PERSON: The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs,
societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to
individuals.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RESPONSIBLE BIDDER: The term "responsible bidder" for construction contracts
over twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) means a bidder who meets all of
the following applicable criteria, and submits evidence of such compliance:
   A.   Compliance with all applicable laws prerequisite to doing business in
Illinois;
   B.   Evidence of compliance with:
      1.   Federal employer tax identification number or social security
number, for individuals; and
      2.   Provision of section 2000(e) of chapter 21, title 42 of the United
States Code and federal executive order no. 11246 as amended by executive order
no. 11375, commonly known as the equal opportunity employer provision;
   C.   Certificates of insurance indicating the following coverage: general
liability, workers' compensation, completed operations, automobile, hazardous
occupation, product liability and professional liability;
   D.   Compliance with all provisions of the Illinois prevailing wage act,
including wages, medical and hospitalization insurance and retirement for those
trades as covered in the "act";
   E.   Participation in apprenticeship and training programs approved and
registered with the United States department of labor's bureau of
apprenticeship and training.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2004 Code; amd. Ord. 09-008, 6-9-2009)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the county code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Acts Punishable Under Different Sections
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Whenever in this code, or in any ordinance of the
county, any act or omission is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful
or an offense, or whenever in said code or ordinance the doing of any act or
the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful or an offense or is
prohibited, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, and state law does
not provide otherwise, the violation of any such provision of this code or any
ordinance shall be an offense punishable by a fine of up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00).
   B.   Separate Offense For Each Day: Unless specifically provided otherwise,
or the context thereof so dictates, each day any violation of any provision of
this code or any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 55 ILCS 5/5-1113.
1-4-2: ACTS PUNISHABLE UNDER DIFFERENT SECTIONS:
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may proceed
under both, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person
for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit
shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty
being enforced. (2004 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any county officer or
employee shall be so construed so as to make such officer or employee liable
for any fine or penalty provided in this code for a failure to perform such
duty, unless the intention of the county board to impose such a fine or penalty
on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the
section creating the duty. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 5
COUNTY BOARD RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE
SECTION:
1-5-1: Description Of County Board Meetings
1-5-2: Rules And Procedures At Meetings Of The Board
1-5-3: Officers
1-5-4: Removal Of A Chairperson
1-5-5: Removal Of A Vice-Chairperson
1-5-6: Compensation Of The Officers And Individual County Board Members
1-5-7: Payroll Voucher Process For All County Board Members
1-5-8: Roles And Responsibilities Of The Chairperson Of The Board
1-5-9: Roles And Responsibilities Of The Vice-Chairperson Of The Board
1-5-10: Full County Board Meeting Agenda
1-5-11: Conduct At County Board Meetings
1-5-12: Conduct At Committee Meetings
1-5-13: County Board Committees
1-5-13-1: Finance Committee
1-5-13-2: Personnel, Insurance, Education, And VAC Committees
1-5-13-3: Tax, Geographic Information System, Technology And Elections
Committee
1-5-13-4: Legislative, Law And Justice, EMA, And Facilities Committee
1-5-13-5: Highway, Animal Control, And Grundy County Transportation Committee
1-5-13-6: Land Use Committee
1-5-1: DESCRIPTION OF COUNTY BOARD MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Full Board Meetings:
      1.   Regular meetings of the County Board shall be held at the Grundy
County Administration Center.
      2.   Regular meetings of the County Board shall be held on the second
Tuesday of June and September and may be adjourned or recessed to the second
Tuesday of each month thereafter or upon such day as the County Board shall
specify upon motion made, seconded and carried.
   B.   Special Full Board Meetings: Special meetings may be held pursuant to
the notice required by state statute at the time, place and in the manner set
forth in the statutes.
   C.   Organizational Meeting: The County Board shall hold what is to be known
as an organizational meeting of the County Board, on the first Monday in
December of each even numbered year. The agenda for the organizational meeting
shall consist of the election of the Chairperson and County Vice-Chairperson,
appointment of members of the Board to various standing committees of the
Board, and the Chairperson thereof. Other appointments required by Illinois
state statute may be made at the organizational meeting as well.
   D.   Committee Meetings: Committee meetings shall be held at the Grundy
County Administration Center in conference rooms 1 and 2.
1-5-2: RULES AND PROCEDURES AT MEETINGS OF THE BOARD:
   A.   These rules of order as revised from time to time shall govern the
procedures at all meetings of the County Board. The rules of order and
procedures of the County Board shall be adopted within ninety (90) days of a
regular December meeting in each even numbered year by a majority vote of the
members present. In the event that the rules of order and procedures of the
Board are silent as to the proper procedure in a given matter, then the
procedures set forth in Robert's Rules of Order shall govern.
   B.   The rules of order and procedures may be amended by the affirmative
vote of two thirds (2/3) of all Board members.
   C.   A rule of order or procedure may be temporarily suspended by the
affirmative vote of two thirds (2/3) of all Board members present.
1-5-3: OFFICERS:
The County Board shall, at its organizational meeting, choose one of its
members as Chairperson for a term of two (2) years, and at the same meeting
choose one of its members as Vice-Chairperson for a term of two (2) years. In
case of the absence of the Chairperson and the Vice-Chairperson at any meeting,
the members present shall choose one of the other members to preside over a
meeting of the County Board.
1-5-4: REMOVAL OF A CHAIRPERSON:
   A.   A motion for removal shall be in order if made either orally or in
writing during the "new business" portion of the agenda incident to a regular
Board meeting. If the motion achieves a second, a special meeting of the County
Board shall be scheduled not more than fourteen (14) days after the date of the
motion for the sole purpose of reviewing and deciding the pending issue of
removal of the County Board Chairperson.
   B.   The Vice-Chairperson of the board shall preside at any special meeting
convened for the purpose of considering a motion to remove the Chairperson of
the County Board. It shall require at least twelve (12) affirmative votes of
the County Board to remove a Chairperson notwithstanding the number attending
the special meeting.
   C.   In the event of removal or resignation: (a) Chairperson compensation
shall be prorated to the date of removal or resignation; and (b) the Vice-
Chairperson shall immediately assume the duties without Chairperson
compensation; and (c) a new Chairperson shall be elected at the next regularly
convened County Board meeting. The member who was removed as Chairperson shall
maintain his/her regular County Board seat.
   D.   All resolutions or ordinances in conflict herewith are repealed.
1-5-5: REMOVAL OF A VICE-CHAIRPERSON:
   A.   The Board may remove the Vice-Chairperson by motion made and seconded
either written or oral that is presented at a regular meeting. The matter shall
be set for discussion and vote at the next regular meeting and a majority of
the existing Board shall be required for removal.
   B.   Removal of a Vice-Chairperson shall be effective immediately upon a
successful vote taken for the purpose. In the event of removal or resignation:
(a) Vice-Chairperson compensation shall be prorated to the date of removal or
resignation; and (b) a new Vice-Chairperson shall be elected at the next
regularly convened County Board meeting. The member who was removed as Vice-
Chairperson shall maintain his/her regular County Board seat.
1-5-6: COMPENSATION OF THE OFFICERS AND INDIVIDUAL COUNTY BOARD MEMBERS:
   A.   The Chairperson of the County Board shall be compensated at a rate
determined by the County Board. The Vice-Chairperson and individual county
Board members shall receive a per diem equal to that of other County Board
members per meeting and be reimbursed for mileage as articulated in division D
of this section.
   B.   The Vice-Chairperson shall only receive the above-stated per diem when
serving in the Chairperson's absence of any and all capacities. If the
Chairperson requests that the Vice-Chairperson attend a meeting, and so
endorses this request on the committee meeting attendance sheet, the Vice-
Chairperson shall upon the approval of the Finance committee, receive per diem
and mileage.
   C.   In the event that a committee member is not able to attend a meeting,
that committee member, with the consent of the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson,
may substitute with another member not on the said committee. The Chairperson
may request that additional members be present for certain meetings. The member
substituting shall receive per diem and mileage for said meeting.
   D.   Mileage reimbursement is calculated using the designated Internal
Revenue Service rate. The committee members shall be entitled to mileage
reimbursements, as stated above, which shall be computed and limited to the
distance from the members' residence to the place of the meeting and for the
return to that residence.
   E.   The following activities may be claimed by the Vice-Chairperson and
individual Board members for per diem and mileage:
      1.   Regular and special meetings of the County Board. Attendance is
determined in the minutes and shall be listed on the monthly voucher.
      2.   Meetings of Board Committees to which assigned.
      3.   Meetings of other Board Committees when attendance is requested by
the Board Chairperson in order to coordinate activities of the committees or to
provide expert information. The Chairperson of a committee, the County Board
Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson may appoint a substitute for a member of a
committee not in attendance.
      4.   Meetings of organizations in which the Board holds memberships when
so assigned by the Board Chairperson.
      5.   Meetings or activities of a special committee or task force
appointed by the Board Chairperson.
      6.   Meetings, conferences or conventions of other organizations when
representing the County Board in an official capacity as designated by the
Board Chairperson. Meetings, when attendance is strictly optional, even though
the invitation resulted from membership on the Board, are not claimable. If
those meetings occur over multiple days, one per diem per day may be turned in.
      7.   Attendance at meetings or activities when transacting county
business at the request of the Board Chairperson.
   F.   If a member attends two (2) or more meetings in any calendar day only
one per diem will be paid. The additional meeting (s) should be listed on the
voucher with a line through the amount column. Mileage may be claimed for the
additional meetings if additional travel is involved.
   G.   Vouchers must be submitted to the administrative assistant within sixty
(60) days of the date of the meeting.
1-5-7: PAYROLL VOUCHER PROCESS FOR ALL COUNTY BOARD MEMBERS:
   A.   All payroll vouchers must be filled out in full and signed by the Board
member requesting the reimbursement within sixty (60) days of the meeting.
   B.   The payroll voucher must be turned in, no later than sixty (60) days
after the meeting, to the administrative assistant at the Administrative
Building who will review the vouchers and remit them to the Finance Committee
for approval.
   C.   Once the Finance Committee has approved the voucher, the County Clerk
will remit them to the Treasurer's Office for payment.
   D.   Payment shall occur within two (2) pay periods of Finance Committee
approval.
   E.   Per IRS rules, travel vouchers must be submitted within sixty (60) days
to be considered timely. Failure to submit voucher in a timely manner could
result in Finance Committee denying the claim.
   F.   When attending special/outside meetings, verification of attendance
must be provided and included with the voucher when submitted.
      1.   It is incumbent on the Board member to provide adequate evidence of
attendance, which includes a sign-in sheet, written letter from the organizer,
or other acceptable documentation.
      2.   The administrative assistant shall not forward a meeting for payment
without adequate documentation.
1-5-8: ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD:
The presiding officer of the County Board shall be known as the Chairperson of
the County Board. The Chairperson of the County Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
   A.   Partner with all seventeen (17) Board members, elected officials and
department heads and the County Administrator to develop a foundation of trust,
integrity and a spirit of cooperation among all to ensure that the Grundy
County residents are served in the best capacity by the County Board.
   B.   Lead the challenge of ensuring that all required county services are
provided to the public through the most efficient means possible while
providing the highest levels of customer service.
   C.   Preside at all meetings of the County Board as schedule permits.
   D.   Attend as many committee meetings as possible and may participate in
discussion at said committee meetings. The Chairperson may not vote at the
meetings, except when a quorum of regular members is not present in which
instance he/she may serve as a temporary member and vote. The Chairperson may
also cast a vote to break a tie at all meetings.
   E.   Appoint all committee members of each County Board committee and the
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson thereof. Such appointments shall be with the
advice and consent of the Board.
   F.   Appoint, with approval of the County Board, the members to various
boards, in accordance with state statutes. Each oversight committee may provide
and/or require the provision of such information or documents from any
appointee as may be reasonable under the circumstances.
   G.   Serve as local liquor control commissioner of Grundy County and may
appoint a committee to assist in the exercise of those powers and duties.
   H.   Shall have such other powers and duties as the state statutes or the
County Board may direct.
   I.   Appoint an ad hoc committee or task force to deal with temporary
matters that are not the responsibility of a standing committee.
   J.   Appoint Board members to represent the county in other organizations.
   K.   Remove and replace any committee member for three (3) unexcused
absences or malfeasance. Committee replacements shall require the advice and
consent of the Board in the same manner as original appointments.
1-5-9: ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE VICE- CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD:
After the Chairperson, the next presiding officer of the County Board shall be
known as the Vice-Chairperson of the County Board. The Vice-Chairperson of the
County Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   Partner with all seventeen (17) board members, elected officials and
department heads and the County Administrator to develop a foundation of trust,
integrity and a spirit of cooperation among all to ensure that the Grundy
County residents are served in the best capacity by the County Board.
   B.   Co-lead the challenge of ensuring that all required county services are
provided to the public through the most efficient means possible while
providing the highest levels of customer service.
   C.   Partner with the Chair to ensure that the county has a harmonious plan
among all departments and within all committees to achieve overall vision and
goals.
   D.   In the temporary absence of the Chairperson of the County Board, the
presiding officer of the County Board shall be the Vice-Chairperson. The Vice-
Chairperson shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   He/she presides at all meetings of the County Board in the absence
of the Chairperson.
      2.   He/she may attend the meetings of all committees of the County Board
and may participate in discussions at those meetings, but he/she may not vote
at the meeting, nor shall he/she be counted for the purpose of determining
whether a quorum exists, unless he/she is a member of that committee, in which
case he/she would have all the rights of a committee member.
      3.   He/she may also vote at a committee meeting, when representing the
Board Chairperson, if the Chairperson would be permitted to vote.
   E.   Have such further powers and duties, as the Chairperson of the County
Board shall determine.
   F.   In the event the Chairperson is unable to continue in his/her duties,
the Vice-Chairperson shall immediately assume the Chairperson duties without
additional compensation. A new Chairperson shall be elected at the next
regularly convened County Board meeting.
1-5-10: FULL COUNTY BOARD MEETING AGENDA:
Any matter of business, including committee reports or recommendations, shall
be filed in writing with the County Clerk no later than four (4) days prior to
the next Board meeting to ensure a proper place on the meeting's agenda. The
County Clerk must provide to each Board Member a copy of the agenda in written
or electronic form. The Chairperson of the Board will have the privilege to
alter the prepared agenda when he/she feels a matter of business must be
discussed without delay.
The regular order in which business shall be considered by the County Board at
all meetings of the Board other than special meetings is as follows:
   A.   Meeting to be called to order;
   B.   Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of The United States of America;
   C.   Roll call;
   D.   Recognitions;
   E.   Public comments;
   F.   Regular agenda;
   G.   Old business;
   H.   New business;
   I.   Executive session (if needed);
   J.   Announcements;
   K.   Review "Something Good for Grundy County";
   L.   Adjournment.
1-5-11: CONDUCT AT COUNTY BOARD MEETINGS:
The following rules and procedures are to be adhered to at all County Board
meetings:
   A.   The Chairperson shall preserve order and decide all questions of order
without debate. The Chairperson may seek advice from the Board Parliamentarian
before deciding the question.
   B.   Every member or guest prior to speaking shall address the Chairperson
and then confine comments to the question under consideration.
   C.   When a question is put, every member shall vote thereon unless a
possible conflict of interest is shown between the Board member and the matter
presented for vote, or if excused by the Chairperson of the Board.
   D.   No motion shall be debated or put unless seconded. When seconded, the
Chair shall state it before being debated.
   E.   A County Board member must attend two thirds (2/3) of the duration of
the County Board meeting to be considered present for the purposes of
collecting per diem.
   F.   After a motion is stated by the Chairperson or read by the Clerk, it
shall be considered in possession of the Board, but may be withdrawn by the
mover on consent of the seconder at any time previous to a decision or
amendment thereon.
   G.   On most matters, the Chairperson shall have discretion to secure a
voice vote. If the vote is all ayes, and no nays, the motion shall carry. If
any nays are heard, a roll call vote shall be immediately taken and the result
announced. On matters concerning actions concerning hiring or termination of
employment and other matters where a record of the vote is deemed necessary, a
roll call vote will be taken.
   H.   Any one member can demand a roll call vote on any question.
   I.   A motion for adjournment shall always be in order and shall be decided
without debate, except that it cannot be made during the vote of another
question or if a member is addressing the Board.
   J.   The seating arrangement of the Board shall not be changed because of
changes in membership. Individual members may change their seats by mutual
agreement.
   K.   All resolutions, proposals or ordinances will be referred to proper
committees to study and report before the Board takes action.
   L.   Action by the Board on any question referred to committee shall be on
the original resolution, proposal or ordinance regardless of the committee
report as favorable, unfavorable or divided.
   M.   Budget amendments, ordinance changes, and fee increases shall be placed
on file at a County Board meeting before being voted on at a subsequent County
Board meeting.
   N.   A Board member may be appointed to act as the Board Parliamentarian.
   O.   A member declared to be out of order by the Chair shall immediately
cease speaking. The decision of the Chair shall be final.
   P.   Public Comments: The Grundy County Board is pleased to provide an
opportunity for the public to comment on issues of importance to the county.
The public comment agenda item is always near the beginning of the meeting to
provide the opportunity for opinions to be expressed before the Board acts upon
issues. In order to provide time for all to be heard and for the Board to carry
on its business the following guidelines are provided:
      1.   Persons who wish to comment should sign in prior to the meeting on
the register sheet at the table just inside the door. Requested information
includes name and address. If representing an organization, state the name of
the organization.
      2.   Verbal comments should be limited to no more than five (5) minutes.
Longer comments may be submitted in writing, twenty one (21) copies should be
provided.
      3.   Comments should be in good taste and respectful of everyone.
      4.   Personal comments or attacks on individuals will not be tolerated.
      5.   When comments on a single issue become repetitive, the Chairperson
may elect to close comments on that issue.
      6.   Public comments are intended as a means for citizens to convey their
thoughts and ideas to the Board. Board members do not respond or debate issues
raised, but may ask questions to clarify a speaker's position. Since much of
the detail work of the Board occurs in committees, citizens are encouraged to
attend committee meetings. Meeting schedules are posted in the committee room,
at the reception desk in the Administration Building, and in the County Clerk's
office in the Courthouse.
1-5-12: CONDUCT AT COMMITTEE MEETINGS:
   A.   Committee meetings and meeting date/time changes shall be by the order
of the Board, the Board Chairperson, or at the call of the Committee
Chairperson.
   B.   The second person appointed to each committee shall serve as Vice-
Chairperson of such committee.
   C.   The County Board Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson may appoint a
substitute for a member of a committee to use as an alternate to fill in when
there is a lack of a quorum in said committee.
   D.   The Chairperson of the committee shall certify that the members
attending the meeting signed the attendance sheet in his/her presence.
   E.   The Chairperson of a committee is responsible to ensure that the
meeting is conducted in accordance with the open meetings act and each member/
guest prior to speaking shall address the Chairperson and then confine comments
to the question under consideration.
   F.   Each committee whose committee has the responsibility for approving
claims shall review and compare the monthly department expense recap to the
Treasurer's report on a quarterly basis. Substantive variations from budgeted
amounts either income or expenses, and the reason for the variation shall be
reported to the Finance Committee by the Committee Chairperson.
   G.   The Chairperson of a committee or designee shall prepare and post an
agenda in accordance with the Open Meetings Act.
   H.   The Chairperson of a committee shall be responsible to ensure that
notes are taken and minutes prepared of each meeting. The administrative
assistant or designee available for this duty, when meetings are held during
normal office hours and is available for meetings held at other hours when
arrangements are made for his/her presence at least two (2) days in advance.
   I.   The Chairperson of a committee shall verify the attendance slip and
minutes are forwarded promptly to the administrative assistant and to be placed
on file. Transcribed minutes shall be sent to the County Clerk and provided to
each Board member.
   J.   The Chairperson of a committee shall hold meetings in accordance with
Robert's Rules of Order.
   K.   The Chairperson of a committee can make or second motions during the
meeting, and shall also be a voting member of the committee on all items under
consideration.
   L.   The Chairperson of a committee shall verify the minutes of any closed
sessions are written and recorded. Minutes of any closed sessions shall be
reviewed every six (6) months and the determination shall be made whether to
continue them closed or to open them to public view.
   M.   Committees shall promote communications, coordination and cooperation
among each of the departments for which it has oversight authority and the
County Board.
   N.   Committees shall assist in determining the recommended budget to the
Finance Committee, for the following year, for each of the departments of which
it has oversight authority.
   O.   Committees shall partner with the County Administrator to provide an
annual performance evaluation for the department heads of the departments for
which it has oversight authority.
   P.   A County Board committee member must be present at two thirds (2/3) or
more of the duration of a committee meeting to be considered present for the
purposes of collecting per diem.
1-5-13: COUNTY BOARD COMMITTEES:
The County Board shall have the following committees with the responsibilities
listed below. Standing committees shall consist of odd numbered groups of
between three (3) to seven (7) members as determined by the Chairperson and
approved by the Board.
1-5-13-1: FINANCE COMMITTEE:
   A.   Meets the Monday preceding the County Board meeting, and on the Monday
two (2) weeks thereafter, or as designated by committee calendar.
   B.   Provides general oversight of the Treasurer Department.
   C.   Prepares the annual appropriation budget of all departments and levy
resolutions for the approval of the County Board.
   D.   Partners with the Grundy County Administrator to develop and implement
a plan of how the county administration should be structured and what services
should be provided.
   E.   Department leaders may procure goods and services totaling up to ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) provided the dollar amount is within the approved
departmental budget. Committee approval is required for all purchases between
ten thousand one dollars ($10,001.00) and twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00).
County Board approval is required for expenditures greater than twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00). The County Administrator, Committee Chair or County Board
Chairman may approve urgent safety or critical infrastructure needs.
   F.   Annual renewal of existing software licenses or software subscriptions
shall not require prior committee approval during the terms of the contract.
   G.   Elected officials and department heads have authority to hire new
employees provided the position is in the approved budget and has a job
description approved by the Personnel Committee.
   H.   Develop annually a rolling three (3) year financial forecast and
implements plan for long-term solvency of Grundy County.
   I.   Establishes a cost reduction model and framework that drive increases
in efficiency on a year over year basis.
   J.   Examines monthly the Treasurer's financial reports and takes such
action or makes such inquiries as may be necessary to carry out the statutory
financial oversight functions of the Board.
   K.   Initiates annual audits of various county funds as required by statutes
and to investigate any irregularities or problems discovered by such audits.
   L.   Initiates special audits of county funds as deemed necessary by the
committee.
   M.   Provides monthly revenue and expense report to full Board for review.
   N.   Acts upon emergency expenditures when such expenditures must be made
between regular Board meetings and to report such actions to the Board at its
next meeting.
   O.   Confers with the Personnel Committee, on an annual basis, to recommend
salary adjustments for the following budget year.
   P.   Confers with the Personnel Committee to review all tentatively approved
labor union contracts and make a joint recommendation on such contracts to the
County Board.
   Q.   Reviews monthly financial claims against the county. The review shall
assure that invoices or receipts indicating the date of the charges and the
articles or services for which made support all vouchers. The responsible
officer or department head shall have signed vouchers ahead of the meeting.
Claims not properly documented shall be returned to the officer or department
head incurring the indebtedness for clarification or reconsideration.
   R.   Audits and approve claims presented by the Board standing committees
for each of the departments for which it has oversight authority.
   S.   Conduct necessary acts and/or employs resources relative to any county
construction project, as necessary, to avoid the imposition of a mechanics
lien. This includes, but is not limited to, requiring all contractors to
deliver a sworn affidavit listing all subcontractors employed along with a
waiver of lien from each subcontractor.
1-5-13-2: PERSONNEL, INSURANCE, EDUCATION, AND VAC COMMITTEES:
   A.   Meets the Thursday following the regular County Board meeting or as
designated by committee calendar.
   B.   Provides general oversight of Administration, Human Resources, Veterans
Affairs Commission, and Regional Office of Education.
   C.   Partners with the Grundy County Administrator, Human Resource Director,
VAC, and Regional Office of Education Superintendent to develop and implement a
plan of how the administration, human resources and regional office of
education departments should be structured and what services should be
provided.
   D.   Department leaders may procure goods and services totaling up to ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) provided the dollar amount is within the approved
departmental budget. Committee approval is required for all purchases between
ten thousand one dollars ($10,001.00) and twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00).
County Board approval is required for expenditures greater than twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00). The County Administrator, Committee Chair or County Board
Chairman may approve urgent safety or critical infrastructure needs.
   E.   Annual renewal of existing software licenses or software subscriptions
shall not require prior committee approval during the terms of the contract.
   F.   Elected officials and department heads have authority to hire new
employees provided the position is in the approved budget and has a job
description approved by the Personnel Committee.
   G.   Partners with broker to develop and implement a robust safety plan for
all employees and visitors.
   H.   Partners with Regional Office of Education to ensure that education
requirements are enforced for Grundy County school systems.
   I.   Reviews monthly report from the Grundy County Veterans Assistance
Commission (GCVAC) and provide feedback to determine how the committee and the
GCVAC can partner together to continuously improve the quality of services
provided to the Grundy County veterans.
   J.   Administers Grundy County's responsibility to appropriately provide
assistance to indigent military veterans.
   K.   Authorizes all wage and salary adjustments including probationary,
annual or special which are within the appropriate salary line items.
   L.   Establishes and maintains an organizational chart of all county offices
and departments.
   M.   Ensure that job descriptions of each position are accurate for all
personnel employed by the county. The Personnel Committee approves all job
descriptions, titles, changes, and deletions.
   N.   Establishes plan to implement performance based merit increases for all
non-bargaining-unit employees.
   O.   Establishes and implements plan to provide three hundred sixty degree
(360°) feedback to each employee on an annual basis.
   P.   Serves as the principal point of contact between Grundy County
employees (singly or collectively) and the Grundy County Board on grievance
matters and salary disputes.
   Q.   Works within the broadest interpretation of personnel management to
continuously improve relationships between all county employees, elected
officials and the Grundy County Board.
   R.   Interprets and implements Grundy County personnel policies.
   S.   Hears and make decisions on grievances brought to it by employees or
their representative labor organization.
   T.   Supervises and review the update, at least every three (3) years, of
the Grundy County Personnel Manual, the Department Head Manual, including
policies and procedures, and the Safety Handbook.
   U.   Reviews and approves all requests for the creation of new positions and
job reclassifications.
   V.   Ensures that all employee evaluations are completed on an annual basis.
   W.   Confers with the Finance Committee to review all tentatively approved
labor union contracts and make a joint recommendation on such contracts to the
County Board.
   X.   Reviews, at least annually, all county health, dental, vision and life
insurance benefit programs. Establishes premiums, loss ratios and other factors
that affect the value and costs of all benefits while keeping the County Board
fully informed.
   Y.   Recommends practical loss control and prevention measures to minimize
health insurance costs.
   Z.   Partners with our broker to understand changes in the insurance market
and how those parameters affect the county health insurance.
   AA.   Ensures that county employees receive adequate information relative to
health insurance benefits and the correct method to file claims.
   BB.   Proposes changes in the health insurance program to the Finance
Committee that affect the county from a financial perspective.
   CC.   Ensures that all facilities have designated emergency procedures in
place including, but not limited to, evacuation, severe weather and an active
shooter. Each building and area must have designated, trained leaders that will
oversee the emergency and ensure that all employees are accounted for.
1-5-13-3: TAX, GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM, TECHNOLOGY AND ELECTIONS
COMMITTEE:
   A.   Meets the Wednesday prior to the regular County Board meeting or as
designated by committee calendar.
   B.   Provides general oversight of the Supervisor of Assessments, GIS,
Technology, Elections Departments and Clerk's office.
   C.   Partners with the Supervisor of Assessment, GIS Director, Technology
Director, and the County Clerk to develop and implement a plan of how these
departments should be structured and what services should be provided.
   D.   Department leaders may procure goods and services totaling up to ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) provided the dollar amount is within the approved
departmental budget. Committee approval is required for all purchases between
ten thousand one dollars ($10,001.00) and twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00).
County Board approval is required for expenditures greater than twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00). The County Administrator, Committee Chair or County Board
Chairman may approve urgent safety or critical infrastructure needs.
   E.   Annual renewal of existing software licenses or software subscriptions
shall not require prior committee approval during the terms of the contract.
   F.   Elected officials and department heads have authority to hire new
employees provided the position is in the approved budget and has a job
description approved by the Personnel Committee. Advises the Grundy County
Board on all matters relating to growth, including residential, commercial and
industrial growth and the economic opportunities and challenges associated with
that growth.
   G.   Ensure that the Supervisor of Assessments develops and implements a
plan to review all of the land parcels, in Grundy County, every four (4) years
and ensure that the parcel is assessed properly.
   H.   Partners with the Grundy Economic Development Council and the
municipalities in Grundy County to promote business growth.
   I.   Coordinates and oversees the operation of the property tax system and
recommends periodically beneficial changes in local policies and state laws.
   J.   Makes recommendations to the County Board regarding tax matters.
   K.   Partners with the Supervisor of Assessments on relevant pending
legislation, taxation issues, and taxes paid under protest.
   L.   Partners with the Treasurer, County Clerk, and Supervisor of
Assessments to promote timely and accurate taxing procedures and the collection
and distribution of taxes to the various taxing bodies.
   M.   Hears, reviews and approves requests for tax abatements under the
Grundy County Abatement Policy.
   N.   Oversees the development and implementation of all new assessment
technology as required by the County Board.
   O.   Ensures that the Technology Director implements a plan to provide as
much information as possible, in an efficient manner, on the Grundy County
website for the residents to be fully informed of all county business. Ensures
that website is updated and maintained on a regular basis to provide efficient,
clear information to the public.
   P.   Receives reports from the Technology Director on emerging and
developing technology to ensure that Grundy County is adequately positioned to
meet its future needs in the most efficient and economical manner.
   Q.   Reviews purchases, leases, contracts, and rental of all technology in
the county including, but not limited to, computers, software, copy machines,
office equipment and communication technology.
   R.   Meets with the County Clerk, prior to elections involving the county
and aids the Clerk in matters pertaining to elections including the selection
of polling places.
   S.   Audit the "Per Diem" of judges of all elections.
   T.   Makes recommendations to the Grundy County Board regarding the
divisions of township precincts as needed.
   U.   Partners with the County Clerk to make recommendations on the rate of
pay for election judges.
1-5-13-4: LEGISLATIVE, LAW AND JUSTICE, EMA, AND FACILITIES COMMITTEE:
   A.   Meets the Thursday prior to the regular County Board meeting or as
designated by committee calendar.
   B.   Provides general oversight of the following departments:
      1.   Circuit Clerk;
      2.   Judiciary;
      3.   Probation;
      4.   Public Defender;
      5.   Sheriff;
      6.   Coroner;
      7.   Facilities; and
      8.   Emergency Management.
   C.   Partners with the Circuit Clerk, Judicial, Probation, Public Defender,
Sheriff, Coroner, Emergency Management Director to develop and implement a plan
of how these departments should be structured and what services should be
provided.
   D.   Department leaders may procure goods and services totaling up to ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) provided the dollar amount is within the approved
departmental budget. Committee approval is required for all purchases between
ten thousand one dollars ($10,001.00) and twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00).
County Board approval is required for expenditures greater than twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00). The County Administrator, Committee Chair or County Board
Chairman may approve urgent safety or critical infrastructure needs.
   E.   Annual renewal of existing software licenses or software subscriptions
shall not require prior committee approval during the terms of the contract.
   F.   Elected officials and department heads have authority to hire new
employees provided the position is in the approved budget and has a job
description approved by the Personnel Committee.
   G.   Recommends policies and ordinances that will promote law and order in
Grundy County.
   H.   Serves as a liaison between the judicial system and the Grundy County
Board.
   I.   Approves the policies and operations of the Emergency Management
Office.
   J.   Oversees the development, revision and implementation of emergency
operations plans and makes recommendations to the County Board regarding
emergency planning.
   K.   Ensures the enforcement of county, state and federal laws regarding
emergency management and develops new ordinances as needed.
   L.   Participates, as needed, in emergency operations and drills.
   M.   Ensures that all county buildings, offices and conference and board
rooms are fully utilized in the most efficient manner to deliver services to
the Grundy County residents.
   N.   Supervises the maintenance, repairs and new construction of all
facilities owned or leased by the County Board. Makes or oversees the periodic
inspections of the physical condition of the county facilities. Reports
findings and recommendations to the County Board.
   O.   Establishes and supervises routine inspections of all Grundy County
facilities including, plumbing, heating, HVAC, electrical, parking facilities,
and landscaping.
   P.   Establishes long term plans for maintenance, repair and renovation of
county facilities. Ensures that the facility manager establishes the
appropriate short-term priority of scheduled maintenance and repair of all
county facilities, grounds and parking lots.
   Q.   Develops or oversees the development of specifications for any
contractual maintenance, repair or renovation of the county facilities; and
submit to the County Board for approval prior to seeking bids.
   R.   Analyzes bids for building construction, maintenance and repair and
prepare recommendations to the County Board.
   S.   Partners with the Sheriff's office to manage the space allocation
within in the Courthouse. Manages space allocations within the Grundy County
Administration Center as well as all other county facilities to ensure that
each department has the right amount of space to effectively deliver necessary
services.
   T.   Reports the progress of county building projects to the Grundy County
Board.
   U.   Oversee the implementation and process to conduct an annual inventory
of all Grundy County insured properties.
   V.   Assists the County Board Chairperson in approving the recommendations
for persons nominated to various boards for which the County Board is the
appointing authority.
   W.   Provides recommendations relative to persons seeking office when the
County Board is the appointing authority.
   X.   Serves as liaison with other governmental agencies as a means to
promote communications and coordination.
   Y.   Keeps the Grundy County Board informed on all proposed state
legislation affecting the County Board and makes recommendations as to the
action the Board should take regarding such legislation.
   Z.   Maintains a close alliance with Illinois state legislators representing
Grundy County and to make known to state and federal legislators, the needs and
requirements of Grundy County and other local governmental bodies.
   AA.   Assists and advises the Grundy County Board Chairperson in his/her or
her role as Grundy County Liquor Commissioner. The committee assists in
verifying the qualifications of applicants for new and renewal of liquor
licenses applications to ensure:
      1.   Proper classification;
      2.   Proper zoning;
      3.   Complaints are managed;
      4.   Proper personal applicant records; and
      5.   Compliance with health ordinances.
   BB.   Conducts hearing on complaints of improper conduct of licensed liquor
establishments and make investigations, if in the opinion of the committee,
such investigation is warranted.
   CC.   Recommends action, including suspension or revocation of the license
of any liquor establishment, which has violated the county ordinances covering
the operation of such establishment.
   DD.   Makes recommendations to the County Board for additional liquor
licenses, or deletion of existing licenses and changes in ordinances regulating
the operation of liquor establishments or the enforcement thereof.
1-5-13-5: HIGHWAY, ANIMAL CONTROL, AND GRUNDY COUNTY TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE:
   A.   Meets the second Thursday following the regular County Board Meeting or
as designated by committee calendar.
   B.   Provides general oversight of the Highway, Animal Control and the
Grundy County Transportation Departments.
   C.   Department leaders may procure goods and services totaling up to ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) provided the dollar amount is within the approved
departmental budget. Committee approval is required for all purchases between
ten thousand one dollars ($10,001.00) and twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00).
County Board approval is required for expenditures greater than twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00). The County Administrator, Committee Chair or County Board
Chairman may approve urgent safety or critical infrastructure needs.
   D.   Annual renewal of existing software licenses or software subscriptions
shall not require prior committee approval during the terms of the contract.
   E.   Elected officials and department heads have authority to hire new
employees provided the position is in the approved budget and has a job
description approved by the Personnel Committee.
   F.   Partners with the Grundy County Highway Engineer, Animal Control
Director, and Grundy County Transit Director to develop and implement a plan of
how these departments should be structured and what services should be
provided.
   G.   Partners with the Legislative, Law Enforcement, EMA, and Facilities
Committee to supervise the maintenance of the equipment buildings and grounds
of the County Highway Department.
   H.   Maintains a rolling five (5) year plan for construction, repair and
maintenance of county roads and county and township bridges.
   I.   Partners with neighboring counties and developers within Grundy County
to develop and implement a strategic infrastructure plan for future growth
opportunities.
   J.   Provides recommendations of funds needed to implement the plans for
construction, repair and maintenance of county/township roads and bridges to
the County Board.
   K.   Acts as a cross check for the County Bridge and County Highway
accounts, kept by the County Treasurer, which are maintained as separate
accounts.
   L.   Hears requests, petitions, for township bridges and make
recommendations to the Board for dispositions or actions.
   M.   Authorizes repairs for township bridges, where in the opinion of the
Committee, emergency action is deemed necessary.
   N.   Calls on proper law enforcement agencies to enforce the state statutes,
county laws and ordinances, involving the county highway and bridge system.
   O.   Procures, by purchase or condemnation proceedings, all rights-of-way
necessary for the building, repairing or updating of county highways.
   P.   Works with the Land Use Committee to insure that plans for developments
protect the health and welfare of the county.
   Q.   Ensures that, on an annual basis, physical inspections of all county
highways and bridges is conducted.
   R.   Oversight of animal control programs, fees, and policies.
   S.   Reviews intergovernmental agreements with other units of governments
for animal control services.
   T.   Negotiates contracts with transportation companies and monitors their
operational performance.
   U.   Partners with other governmental agencies to properly manage the Grundy
County Transit System (GTS).
1-5-13-6: LAND USE COMMITTEE:
   A.   Meets the fourth Wednesday of the month, or as designated by committee
calendar.
   B.   Provides general oversight of the Land Use and Environmental
Departments.
   C.   Department leaders may procure goods and services totaling up to ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) provided the dollar amount is within the approved
departmental budget. Committee approval is required for all purchases between
ten thousand one dollars ($10,001.00) and twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00).
County Board approval is required for expenditures greater than twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00). The County Administrator, Committee Chair or County Board
Chairman may approve urgent safety or critical infrastructure needs.
   D.   Annual renewal of existing software licenses or software subscriptions
shall not require prior committee approval during the terms of the contract.
   E.   Elected officials and department heads have authority to hire new
employees provided the position is in the approved budget and has a job
description approved by the Personnel Committee. Partners with the land use and
environmental directors to develop and implement a plan of how the Land Use and
Environmental Departments should be structured and what services should be
provided.
   F.   Partners with the Grundy County Economic Development Council, local
developers and advocates to promote business and infrastructure growth within
Grundy County.
   G.   Reviews and provides recommendations to local municipalities and
developers on the feasibility of proposed subdivisions and inspect the sites
during development.
   H.   Reviews all tentative and final plats to ensure proper zoning, County
Code and ordinance requirements, before they are submitted to the County Board
for final approval.
   I.   Prepares and maintains current building and zoning ordinances as well
as changes and amendments. Submits them for approval by the County Board while
supervising the maintenance of current records of the ordinances and
amendments.
   J.   Supervises the enforcement of the building and zoning ordinances and
directs the enforcement of the standard operating procedures through legal
channels within the scope of the ordinances.
   K.   Authorizes the preparation and perpetuation of procedures for the
mapping and recording of county zoning.
   L.   Oversees the planning for land use, water, sewage, and drainage for
Grundy County. The committee shall review recommendations of the Land Use
Department and recommend action to the County Board.
   M.   Partners with the Highway Committee and the Grundy County Board of
Health in the areas involving construction, zoning, and highways where county
health and welfare are affected.
   N.   Leads the development and implementation of the Grundy County
Comprehensive Plan. Partners with the other committees to ensure that a
detailed, well thought out plan is implemented for the benefit of the Grundy
County residents.
   O.   Updates and monitors the implementation of the school site donation
ordinance and other impact fees as established.
   P.   Oversees the development, revision, and implementation of the County
Solid Waste Management Plan and to make recommendations to the Board regarding
waste management planning.
   Q.   Provides the Land Use Director with guidance and direction regarding
local implementation of state and federal laws.
   R.   Ensures the enforcement of applicable laws regarding solid waste
management and to recommend county ordinances as necessary.
   S.   Coordinates and communicates the mitigation of solid waste and state
statute issues as well as other governmental unit questions or concerns.
   T.   Evaluates and prepares recommendations for the Grundy County Board on
all matters relating to the environment (e.g. wetland protection, air, water,
and land pollution).
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-6-1: Office Created; Qualifications
1-6-2: Appointment
1-6-3: Duties And Responsibilities
1-6-4: Limit Of Authority
1-6-1: OFFICE CREATED; QUALIFICATIONS:
The office of county administrator is hereby created. The county administrator
shall be a person having demonstrated administrative and executive ability as
shown by experience in public or private employment in a responsible
administrative or executive position requiring the planning and execution of
work programs of administrative operations, the budgeting and control of
expenditures, and the coordination of varied activities. (2004 Code)
1-6-2: APPOINTMENT:
The county administrator shall be appointed by the county board and shall serve
at the pleasure of the board, subject to such employment conditions and
procedures as may be provided by law. (2004 Code)
1-6-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   The county administrator shall generally advise, assist, act as agent
for, and be responsible to the county board for the proper and efficient
administration of such affairs of the county as are placed in his or her charge
by the board. He or she shall be responsible for the enforcement of such
ordinances, orders, or regulations as may be directed by the board by ordinance
or resolution. All appointed department heads under the jurisdiction of the
board shall submit appropriate informational reports to the county
administrator upon request.
   B.   The county administrator shall be responsible for all duties and
responsibilities and shall meet the qualifications required in and as described
in the most current position description for the position of county
administrator as adopted by the county board as a part of the Grundy County
personnel policy.
   C.   The county administrator may employ such clerical and administrative
personnel as may be authorized by the county board. (2004 Code)
1-6-4: LIMIT OF AUTHORITY:
It is the intention of the county board in adopting this chapter only to create
a position to which may be delegated certain administrative and ministerial
duties in and under its direction. No provision of this chapter is intended to
vest in or grant to the county administrator any duty or any authority which is
vested by general law or ordinance in any other county officer, official, or
employee. No provision of this chapter shall be construed to delegate to the
county administrator any authority reserved to the county board by law; nor
shall the county administrator have the power to bind, obligate, or commit the
county in any manner except as provided herein or by the express grant of
authority by the county board. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 7
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Definitions
1-7-2: Prohibited Political Activities
1-7-3: Gift Ban
1-7-4: Ethics Advisor
1-7-5: Ethics Commission
1-7-6: Whistle Blower Protection
1-7-7: Penalties
1-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given these
definitions:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities:
   A.   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or
administrative action,
   B.   Relating to collective bargaining, or
   C.   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment but, for purposes of this chapter, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed, "compensated
time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises under the
control of the employer and any other time when the officer or employee is
executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the minimum work
time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the election code 3 .
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the county of Grundy, whether on a full time or
part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the
direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how
the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
EMPLOYER: The county of Grundy.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink and honoraria for speaking engagements related
to or attributable to government employment or the official position of an
officer or employee.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive:
   A.   Compensation for employment,
   B.   Service credit toward pension benefits, and
   C.   Health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities:
   A.   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative or
administrative action,
   B.   Relating to collective bargaining, or
   C.   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY:
   A.   Preparing for, organizing or participating in any political meeting,
political rally, political demonstration or other political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing or filing
any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or against any
referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action:
      1.   By an officer, or
      2.   By an employee, or
      3.   By the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business:
      1.   With the officer, or
      2.   With an employee, or
      3.   With the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated:
      1.   By the officer, or
      2.   By an employee, or
      3.   By the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord. 2013-
013, 9-10-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-7-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform a prohibited
activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer or
employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the county of
Grundy in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity:
      1.   As part of that officer or employee's duties,
      2.   As a condition of employment, or
      3.   During any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or
personal time off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation of any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment, or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 2013-013, 9-10-
2013)
1-7-3: GIFT BAN:
   A.   Prohibitions: Except as permitted by this section, no officer or
employee and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or
employee (collectively referred to herein as "recipient"), shall intentionally
solicit or accept any gift from any prohibited sources, as defined herein, or
which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall
intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this section.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Subsection A of this section is not applicable to the following:
         a.   Opportunities, benefits and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public.
         b.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse
or immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
         c.   Any: 1) contribution that is lawfully made under the election
code, or 2) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
         d.   Educational materials and missions.
         e.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
         f.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
         g.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as:
            (1)   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
            (2)   Whether, to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the
individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax
deduction or business reimbursement for the gift; and
            (3)   Whether, to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the
individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar
gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate family
members.
         h.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00)
per person in value on a single calendar day, provided that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared, or 2) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
         i.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
         j.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this section, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
government entity.
         k.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
         l.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
      2.   Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive
and independent of every other.
   C.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee does not violate
this chapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered or succeeded. (Ord. 2013-013, 9-10-2013)
1-7-4: ETHICS ADVISOR:
   A.   The chairman of the county board, with the advice and consent of the
Grundy County board, shall designate an ethics advisor for the county of
Grundy. The duties of the ethics advisor may be delegated to an officer or
employee of the county of Grundy unless the position has been created as an
office by the county of Grundy.
   B.   The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and employees
of the county of Grundy concerning the interpretation of and compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and state ethics laws. The ethics advisor shall
perform such other duties as may be delegated by the county board of the county
of Grundy. (Ord. 2013-013, 9-10-2013)
1-7-5: ETHICS COMMISSION:
   A.   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the ethics
commission of the county of Grundy. The commission shall be comprised of seven
(7) members appointed by the chairman of the county board, with the advice and
consent of the county board of the county of Grundy. No more than four (4)
members of the commission shall belong to the same political party at the time
such appointments are made. Party affiliation shall be determined by affidavit
of the person appointed.
   B.   At the first meeting of the commission, the initial appointees shall
draw lots to determine their initial terms. Four (4) commissioners shall serve
two (2) year terms, and the remaining three (3) commissioners shall serve a one
year term. Thereafter, all commissioners shall be appointed to two (2) year
terms. Commissioners may be reappointed to serve subsequent terms.
At the first meeting of the commission, the commissioners shall choose a
chairperson from their number. Meetings shall be held at the call of the
chairperson or any four (4) commissioners. A quorum shall consist of four (4)
commissioners, and official action by the commission shall require the
affirmative vote of four (4) members.
   C.   The chairman of the county board, with the advice and consent of the
county board of the county of Grundy, may remove a commissioner in case of
incompetency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office after service on the
commissioner by certified mail, return receipt requested, of a copy of the
written charges against the commissioner and after providing an opportunity to
be heard in person or by counsel upon not less than ten (10) days' notice.
Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments.
   D.   The commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers.
      2.   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with subsection
1-7-7C of this chapter and refer violations of section
1-7-2 or
1-7-3 of this chapter to the appropriate attorney for prosecution. The
commission shall, however, act only in the receipt of a written complaint
alleging a violation of this chapter and not upon its own prerogative.
      3.   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the county of Grundy to cooperate with the commission
during the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to cooperate with
requests by the commission shall constitute grounds for discipline or
discharge.
      5.   The powers and duties of the commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this chapter.
   E.   1. Complaints alleging a violation of this chapter shall be filed with
the ethics commission.
      2.   Within five (5) business days after receipt of a complaint, the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within five (5) business days after receipt by the commission. The notices to
the respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time and
place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed. In the alternative, the
notices to the respondent and the complainant may be made by personal service.
      3.   Upon not less than forty eight (48) hours' public notice, the
commission shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the
complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this chapter, to
determine whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by
the complainant, to proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the
extent authorized by the open meetings act. The commission shall issue notice
to the complainant and the respondent of the commission's ruling on the
sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed
within ten (10) business days after receiving the complaint.
If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of section
1-7-3 and/or
1-7-2 of this chapter (if the commission does not seek incarceration as a
possible penalty for a violation) and there is a determination of probable
cause, then the commission's notice to the parties by personal service, shall
include a hearing date scheduled within six (6) weeks after the complaint
receipt. Alternatively, the commission may elect to notify in writing the
state's attorney to prosecute such actions and request that the complaint be
adjudicated judicially. The commission shall transmit to the state's attorney
the complaint and all additional documents in the custody of the commission
concerning the alleged violation. If the complaint is deemed not sufficient to
allege a violation or if there is not determination of probable cause, then the
commission shall send, by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice of
the decision to dismiss the complaint and that notice shall be made public.
      4.   On the scheduled date and upon at least forty eight (48) hours'
public notice of the meeting, the commission shall conduct a hearing on the
complaint and allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and
evidence. The hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the
open meetings act.
      5.   Within thirty (30) days after the date the hearing or any recessed
hearing is concluded, the commission shall either: a) dismiss the complaint, or
b) issue a recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator and to the
chairman of the county board, or impose a fine upon the violator, or both.
Regarding the particular findings in the case, any recommendation for
discipline and any fine imposed shall be a matter of public information.
      6.   If the hearing was closed to the public, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven (7) business
days after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a
fine, or both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine. Within fourteen (14) days after receiving the demand,
the commission shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least
forty eight (48) hours' public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the
opportunity to present testimony and evidence. Within seven (7) days
thereafter, the commission shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the
alleged violator and to the chairman of the county board, or impose a fine upon
the violator, or both.
      7.   If a complaint is filed during the sixty (60) days preceding the
date of any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the commission
shall render its decision as required under subsection E5 of this section
within seven (7) days after the complaint is filed, and during seven (7) days
preceding that election, the commission shall render such decision before the
date of that election, if possible.
      8.   The commission may fine any person who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-7-3 of this chapter in an amount of not less than one thousand one dollars
($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The commission
may fine any person who knowingly files a frivolous complaint alleging a
violation of this chapter in an amount of not less than one thousand one
dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The
commission may recommend any appropriate discipline up to and including
discharge.
      9.   A complaint alleging the violation of this chapter must be filed
within one year after the alleged violation. (Ord. 2013-013, 9-10-2013)
1-7-6: WHISTLE BLOWER PROTECTION:
   A.   Definitions In This Section:
    PUBLIC BODY:
      1.   Any officer, member, or agency;
      2.   The federal government;
      3.   Any local law enforcement agency or prosecutorial office;
      4.   Any judiciary, grand or petit jury, law enforcement agency, or
prosecutorial office; and
      5.   Any officer, employee, department agency, or other division of any
of the foregoing.
   RETALIATORY ACTION: The reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer of any employee in the terms and conditions of
employment, and that is taken in retaliation of an employee's involvement in
protected activity, as set forth in subsection B of this section.
   SUPERVISOR: An officer, a member, or an employee who has the authority to
direct and control the work performance of an employee or who has the authority
to take corrective action regarding any violation of a law, rule, or regulation
of which the employee complains.
   B.   Protected Activity: An officer, a member, or an agency shall not take
any retaliatory action against an employee because the employee does any of the
following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, agency, or other
employee that the employee reasonably believes is in violation of a law, rule,
or regulation.
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body or
ethics commission conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any
violation of a law, rule, or regulation by any officer, member, agency, or
other employee.
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
   C.   Burden Of Proof: A violation of this section may be established only
upon a finding that: 1) the employee engaged in conduct described in subsection
B of this section, and 2) that conduct was a contributing factor in the
retaliatory action alleged by the employee. It is not a violation, however, if
it is demonstrated that the officer, member, other employee, or agency would
have taken the same unfavorable personnel action in the absence of that
conduct.
   D.   Remedies: The employee may be awarded all the remedies necessary to
make the employee whole and to prevent future violations of this section.
Remedies imposed may include, but are not limited to all of the following:
      1.   Reinstatement of the employee to either the same position held
before the retaliatory action or to an equivalent position;
      2.   Up to two (2) times the amount of back pay;
      3.   Interest on the back pay; and
      4.   The reinstatement of full fringe benefits and seniority rights.
   E.   Preemption: Nothing in this section shall be deemed to diminish the
rights, privileges or remedies of an employee under any other federal or state
law, rule, or regulation or under any collective bargaining agreement or
employment contract. (Ord. 2013-013, 9-10-2013)
1-7-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-7-2 of this chapter may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   B.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-7-3 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   C.   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this chapter to the local enforcement authorities, the
state's attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punished by a
term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days and may be fined in
an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   D.   A violation of section
1-7-2 of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by the state's
attorney, or his/her designee, for the county of Grundy by filing in the
circuit court an information, or sworn complaint, charging such offense. The
prosecution shall be under and conform to the rules of criminal procedure.
Conviction shall require the establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond
a reasonable doubt.
   A violation of section
1-7-3 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by the
state's attorney, or his/her designee, or, if an ethics commission has been
created, by the commission through the designated administrative procedure.
   E.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provisions of section
1-7-2 or
1-7-3 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 2013-013, 9-
10-2013)
CHAPTER 8
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY; SEXUAL HARASSMENT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Compliance With State And Federal Equal Opportunity Laws
1-8-2: Equal Opportunity Assurances
1-8-3: Sexual Harassment
1-8-4: Administration And Enforcement
1-8-1: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL EQUAL OPPORTUNITY LAWS:
The county hereby declares to uphold all laws related to equal employment
opportunity including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Title VI of the civil rights act of 1964 which prohibits discrimination
in the participation in or benefits of programs or activities receiving federal
financial assistance on the basis of race, color, or national origin.
   B.   Title VII of the civil rights act of 1964 which prohibits
discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin in all
employment practices including hiring, firing, promotions, compensation, and
other terms, privileges and conditions of employment.
   C.   Title IX of the education amendments of 1972 which prohibits
discrimination in federally assisted education programs.
   D.   The equal pay act of 1963 which covers all employees who are covered by
the fair labor standards act. The act forbids pay differentials on the basis of
sex.
   E.   The age discrimination act of 1967 which prohibits discrimination
because of age against anyone between the ages of forty (40) and sixty five
(65).
   F.   Federal executive order 11246 which requires every contract with
federal financial assistance to contain a clause against discrimination because
of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
   G.   Section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973 and department of labor
(DOL) implementing regulations at 29 CFR 32 which prohibits any discrimination
based on handicap.
   H.   Section 167 of job training partnership act (JTPA) and the U.S.DOL
relations at 29 CFR parts 31 and 32 which provides that no person in the United
States shall be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or
be subjected to discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin,
under any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance from the
department of labor.
   I.   Chapter 68, article I, section 17-19 of the Illinois constitution which
prohibits discrimination based on race, color, creed, national ancestry,
handicap, and sex in the hiring and promotion practices of any employer.
   J.   Article 2 of the Illinois human rights act (775 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/2, 1994, state bar edition)
   K.   Americans with disabilities act (ADA) (42 USC 12101 et seq.) and the
regulations thereunder (28 CFR 35.130) which prohibits discrimination against
persons with disabilities in the provision of any aid benefit or service. (Ord.
96-007, 4-30-1996)
1-8-2: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ASSURANCES:
   A.   The county will assure nondiscriminatory employment practices in
recruitment, recruitment advertising, employment, placement, layoff or
termination, promotion, demotion or transfer, rate of pay or other forms of
compensation and use of facilities.
   B.   The county will not contract with other agencies, banks, businesses,
vendors, etc., who practice or establish a pattern of discrimination based on
sex, color, race, religion, age, developmental disability/handicap, national
origin, or political affiliation or belief.
   C.   The county assures that it will actively provide nondiscriminatory
outreach, selection, and service to all individuals.
   D.   Efforts will be made to hire minority individuals for all job
categories so that minority employment in all categories of the work force will
represent a proportionate share of minority populations in the county as well
as surrounding areas.
   E.   The county will provide accommodations to the best of its ability for
developmentally disabled/handicapped employees contingent on budget and
structural limitations.
   F.   All county employees are expected to adhere to the above policy and to
work actively for its implementation both internally and in carrying out county
program activities. (Ord. 96-007, 4-30-1996)
1-8-3: SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   A.   Definition: "Sexual harassment" means any unwelcome sexual advances or
requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a sexual nature when:
      1.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a
term or condition of an individual's employment;
      2.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      3.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   B.   Compliance With Laws: The county shall uphold all laws related to
sexual harassment.
   C.   Determination Of Sexual Harassment:
      1.   Sexual harassment may involve individuals of the same or different
gender and is most frequently associated with those situations in which a power
differential exists between persons involved; however, it also may occur
between individuals of the same status.
      2.   Examples of conduct which may, if continued or repeated, constitute
sexual harassment are:
         a.   Unnecessary touching, patting, hugging, or brushing against a
person's body - staring, ogling, leering, whistling.
         b.   Sexually explicit statements, comments, questions, jokes, or
anecdotes - graphic comments about a person's clothing or body.
         c.   Sexually suggestive objects or pictures in the work place.
         d.   Harassing use of the electronic mail or telephone communication
system.
         e.   Other physical or verbal conduct of a sexual nature.
      3.   Such conduct, whether intended or not, constitutes sexual harassment
and is illegal under both state and federal law. Violations of this policy will
not be permitted.
   D.   County Procedure For Resolution Of Sexual Harassment Complaints:
      1.   The county encourages anyone who feels that he/she has been a victim
of sexual harassment to report such incidents to the county chairman or a
county board member. Complainants are urged to report sexual harassment
incidents as soon as possible, since a delay in reporting may make it difficult
to gather appropriate information and documentation. It is not necessary for
sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the complaint. The
following steps may also be taken: document or record each incident (what was
said or done, the date, the time and the place). Documentation can be
strengthened by written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone
messages.
      2.   Complaints will be kept in confidence to the extent practicable and
appropriate under the circumstances.
      3.   The county chairman, with approval of the board, shall appoint a
committee of at least three (3) people, one of whom shall be the attorney for
the county. The role of the committee will be to hear and consider testimony
and other relevant reliable evidence, to make findings of fact, to determine
whether the county's policy on sexual harassment has been violated, and if so,
to recommend appropriate relief and disciplinary action(s). A copy of the
written decision shall be promptly furnished to the employee making the
complaint.
      4.   The employee will be able to have a representative present at any
discussion between the employee and the county board or committee.
   E.   Complaint To State: The employee making the complaint may elect to file
a written complaint with the Illinois department of human rights or the
Illinois human rights commission. The alternative complaint avenues are
available if the employee would prefer to use them instead of the internal
procedures.
      Illinois department of human rights - 312/814-6245.
      Illinois human rights commission - 217/785-4350.
   F.   Retaliation Prohibited: The employee is protected by the Illinois human
rights act (775 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101, 1994, state bar edition)
from retaliation because he or she has opposed that which he or she reasonably
and in good faith believes to be unlawful sexual harassment in employment or
because he or she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or
participated in an investigation under this chapter. (Ord. 96-007, 4-30-1996)
1-8-4: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The county chairman and county board shall carry out the equal employment
opportunity/affirmative action (EEO/AA) plan. (Ord. 96-007, 4-30-1996)
CHAPTER 9
PUBLIC SERVICES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Public Transportation
1-9-2: Reimbursement Of Medical And Hospital Services For Inmates
1-9-3: Abatement For Residence Of Surviving Spouse Of Fallen Officer Or Rescue
Worker
1-9-1: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION:
Grundy County shall hereby provide public transportation within the County or
Counties limits. (Ord. 2019-005, 3-12-2019)
1-9-2: REIMBURSEMENT OF MEDICAL AND HOSPITAL SERVICES FOR INMATES:
   A.   Rate Of Reimbursement Established: Pursuant to 730 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 125/17, reimbursement by the County for the cost of hospital and/or
physician services provided to inmates in the custody of the County Sheriff
shall be set at the current Illinois Department of Public Aid rate for medical
assistance.
   B.   Amendments To Rates: Should the Illinois Department of Public Aid rate
for medical assistance be changed, modified or amended at a future date, upon
implementation of said change, modification or amendment by the Department of
Public Aid, the same rate for medical assistance shall be applicable in the
County for the cost of hospital and/or physician services provided to inmates
in the custody of the County Sheriff.
   C.   Current And Pending Actions: Nothing herein shall be construed to
affect any suit or proceeding now pending in any court or any rights accrued or
liability incurred or any cause or causes of action accrued or existing under
any prior resolution or ordinance. (Ord. 01-014, 8-14-2001)
1-9-3: ABATEMENT FOR RESIDENCE OF SURVIVING SPOUSE OF FALLEN OFFICER OR RESCUE
WORKER:
   A.   Definitions:
    FALLEN POLICE OFFICER OR RESCUE WORKER: An individual who dies:
      1.   As a result of or in the course of employment as a police officer;
or
      2.   While in the active service of a fire, rescue, or emergency medical
service.
"Fallen police officer or rescue worker" does not include an individual whose
death was the result of that individual's own wilful misconduct or abuse of
alcohol or drugs.
   QUALIFIED PROPERTY: A parcel of real property that is occupied by not more
than two (2) families, that is used as the principal residence by a surviving
spouse, and that:
      1.   Was owned by the fallen police officer or rescue worker or surviving
spouse at the time of the police officer's or rescue worker's death;
      2.   Was acquired by the surviving spouse within two (2) years after the
police officer's or rescue worker's death if the surviving spouse was domiciled
in the State at the time of that death; or
      3.   Was acquired more than two (2) years after the police officer's or
rescue worker's death if surviving spouse qualified for an abatement for a
former qualified property located in that municipality.
   SURVIVING SPOUSE: A spouse, who has not remarried, of a fallen police
officer or rescue worker.
   B.   The Grundy County clerk is ordered to abate one hundred (100)
percentage of the taxes levied by the county of Grundy on each parcel of
qualified property within the boundaries of the county that is owned by the
surviving spouse of a fallen police officer or rescue worker.
   C.   The percentage of the abatement is to be set at one hundred percent
(100%) and the duration of the abatement is to be for a period of not more than
ten (10) years. The tax year in which a surviving spouse remarries is not
eligible for an abatement. (Ord. 08-005, 4-8-2008)
CHAPTER 10
DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Purpose
1-10-2: Surplus Property Defined
1-10-3: Procedures
1-10-4: Reports Of Sales
1-10-5: Exemptions
1-10-6: Bidding Procedure
1-10-1: PURPOSE:
The provisions of this chapter shall constitute the procedures for the sale or
disposal of surplus, scrap, obsolete, or unwanted equipment. (Ord. 2019-017, 8-
13-2019)
1-10-2: SURPLUS PROPERTY DEFINED:
"Surplus property" means motor vehicles, equipment, furniture, supplies,
furnishings, or any other personal property which is no longer necessary or
useful for retention by the county which has a gross current value exceeding
five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2019-017, 8-13-2019)
1-10-3: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Sale: The chair of the facilities committee or his designee shall make
all arrangements for sale of surplus property including auction, competitive
closed bidding, or any other methodology which will assure the probable net
maximum financial benefit to Grundy County. Sale events shall be set as to
time, date, and all other necessary information including a list of all items
to be sold as approved by the facilities committee.
      1.   Disposal Of Surplus Office Furniture:
         a.   Office furniture (for purposes here defined as desks, chairs,
bookcases, tables, and other county offices and departments as provided in
division C).
         b.   The facilities committee shall identify and declare certain
office furniture as surplus office furniture and eligible for donation to other
governmental units with some or all of their boundaries within Grundy County.
         c.   An inventory shall be maintained of all office furniture
transferred to other departments or governmental units.
         d.   Transfers shall be conducted on a first come, first serve basis.
         e.   If the surplus office furniture is not claimed by a county office
or other governmental body, its disposal shall be in the same manner as other
surplus property.
      2.   Motor Vehicle:
         a.   If a motor vehicle is declared surplus, and in the determination
of the chair of the facilities committee, it is in the best interest of the
county to trade-in the vehicle as partial payment toward a replacement vehicle,
such trade-in shall be considered in compliance with this policy.
         b.   If a motor vehicle is not utilized for trade-in value, it shall
be disposed of by a) sealed bid process; b) public auction; or c) transferring
to another body of government with its boundaries in whole or in part in Grundy
County.
      3.   Auctioning Non-Vehicles: A professional auction service shall
conduct an auction for the sale of surplus property. Notice of the auction
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Grundy County and
on the county website at least ten (10) days prior to the auction.
      4.   Scrapping Metal Items: If surplus property is not transferred to
another governmental agency, not sold at auction, and not eligible for
recycling, the metal items may be scrapped so that the county may receive
income for these items.
      5.   Disposal Of Unsold Items: Any surplus property not transferred to
another governmental agency, sold at auction, recycled, or scrapped, may be
disposed of by renting a dumpster as necessary and disposing of the items.
      6.   All funds realized from the sale or disposal of surplus property
shall be promptly deposited by the county treasurer into the county general
funds who shall provide an agent of that office to handle all funds received.
      7.   Employees of the county may only purchase or receive surplus
property in a process open to the general public (public sealed bid, auction,
and the like).
   B.   Report Of Existing Surplus Property: Every officer, department head,
employee or agent of Grundy County shall report the existence of any surplus
property in his/her control as defined herein within seven (7) days after use
thereof ceases to his/her supervisor who shall report the existence of said
surplus property, to the chairman of the facilities committee in writing with a
list of said property, its present location, and original purchase price, if
known, within seven (7) days; this duty shall extend to members of the county
board.
   C.   List Presented To Departments: Fourteen (14) days before any sale or
disposition, a copy of the list of surplus property items shall be distributed
to each county department and each department shall be notified of the deadline
established by the department head, by which county departments may obtain such
surplus equipment, provided that the department head files a written request
for county use of any surplus property. Any person or other entity may
participate as purchaser of surplus property subject to the same rules as set
forth for each sale. (Ord. 2019-017, 8-13-2019)
1-10-4: REPORTS OF SALES:
The chairman of the facilities committee shall file a detailed report of the
surplus property sale, itemizing the price of items sold, expenses of any kind,
and the names of purchasers and providers shall accompany said report. All
funds realized shall be promptly deposited by the county treasurer into the
county general fund who shall provide an agent of that office to handle all
funds received. (Ord. 2019-017, 8-13-2019)
1-10-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the disposal of surplus
equipment specifically provided for by state statute, grant requirements, or
the county highway department. (Ord. 2019-017, 8-13-2019)
1-10-6: BIDDING PROCEDURE:
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary above, the facilities committee may
vary the disposition from the foregoing provisions upon identifying another
methodology that is in accord with all appropriate considerations and expedient
in the opinion of the vote of the committee. To the extent that the department
head is previously mandated by federal or state requirements to follow bidding
procedures, the provisions of this chapter shall be superseded by such
requirements. (Ord. 2019-017, 8-13-2019)
CHAPTER 11
MERIT COMMISSION
SECTION:
1-11-1: Commission Established
1-11-2: Rules And Regulations
1-11-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
   A.   A sheriff's merit commission is hereby established for Grundy County,
Illinois. The commission shall consist of five (5) members. Of the initial
appointments to the commission, one shall be for a two (2) year term, one for a
three (3) year term, one for a term of four (4) years, one for a term of five
(5) years, and one for a term of six (6) years. The sheriff shall make the
appointments which shall become effective with the approval of the county
board. Not more than three (3) commissioners shall be of the same political
party and political affiliation shall be established by affidavit of the
commissioners to be submitted prior to their approval by the county board. Not
more than two (2) commissioners shall have previous background as a police
officer or any other position encompassing the duties of said position.
   B.   The compensation, reimbursement, and provision for administrative
expense if any, shall be fixed hereafter by resolution of the county board.
(Ord. 2013-010, 6-11-2013)
1-11-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Upon completion of the appointment process, the commission shall
forthwith meet and formulate a set of rules and regulations which shall provide
for the organization and operations of the commission.
   B.   The rules and regulations shall provide for the administration of the
commission, classification of ranks for eligibility lists for the sheriff,
appointments to the sheriff's office, promotions, resignations and
reinstatements, disciplinary measures, disciplinary procedures and a violation
of rules and regulations.
   C.   Upon approval of the merit commission, the rules and regulations shall
be submitted to the county board, and shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon the passage of a resolution adopting said measures.
Thereafter, the commission may modify its rules and regulations by addition,
modification or deletion without further application to the county board. (Ord.
2013-010, 6-11-2013)
CHAPTER 12
REIMBURSEMENT OF TRAVEL, MEAL, AND LODGING EXPENSES
SECTION:
1-12-1: Definitions
1-12-2: Official Business For Which Expenses May Be Reimbursed
1-12-3: Approvals And Maximum Allowable Reimbursement For Expenses
1-12-4: Approval Of Expenses
1-12-5: Documentation Of Expenses
1-12-6: Entertainment Expenses
1-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
ENTERTAINMENT: Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
TRAVEL: Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees,
officers, or by wards or charges of the County involving reimbursement to
travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing transportation or
related services. (Ord. 2016-021, 12-13-2016, eff. 1-1-2017)
1-12-2: OFFICIAL BUSINESS FOR WHICH EXPENSES MAY BE REIMBURSED:
   A.   Provisions:
      1.   An official of the County shall be entitled to reimbursement for
travel, including meals or lodging, related to the following types of official
business:
         a.   Education conferences related to the duties of the officer of the
County;
         b.   Site visits to current or potential vendors of the County;
         c.   Case site visits by governing bodies;
         d.   Meetings of governing bodies;
         e.   Other travel as authorized by County Board Chairman in compliance
with County regulations.
      2.   An employee shall be entitled to reimbursement for travel, including
meals or lodging, related to the following types of official business:
         a.   Education conferences related to the duties of the employee of
the County;
         b.   Site visits to current or potential vendors of the County;
         c.   Transportation of prisoners, probationers, or other persons in
the County's custody, law enforcement and investigative efforts;
         d.   Transportation of County equipment;
         e.   Case site visits by governing bodies;
         f.   Home/office visits as required for clients, etc.;
         g.   Travel between County offices as authorized by department head;
         h.   Meetings of governing bodies;
         i.   Marketing of locations in the County to prospective businesses/
consultants;
         j.   Other travel as authorized by department head in compliance with
County regulations. (Ord. 2016-021, 12-13-2016, eff. 1-1-2017)
1-12-3: APPROVALS AND MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES:
Unless otherwise stated herein, the necessary approval of expenses and the
maximum allowable reimbursement for an employee or officer of the County shall
be those set by the Grundy County Expense Reimbursement Policy (on file in the
County as Exhibit A) in effect at the time the expense was incurred. (Ord.
2016-021, 12-13-2016, eff. 1-1-2017)
1-12-4: APPROVAL OF EXPENSES:
   A.   The Board must approve the following reimbursements for travel,
including meals or lodging, by a roll call vote at an open meeting of the
Board:
      1.   Any expense of any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum
permitted in section
1-12-3 of this chapter; or
      2.   Any expense of any member of the Board. (Ord. 2016-021, 12-13-2016,
eff. 1-1-2017)
1-12-5: DOCUMENTATION OF EXPENSES:
   A.   Before any reimbursement for travel, including meals or lodging, may be
approved pursuant to section
1-12-4 of this chapter, a standardized form for submission of travel, meal, and
lodging expenses supported by the following minimum documentation shall first
be submitted to the Board (form on file in the County as Exhibit B):
      1.   An estimate of the cost of travel, meals, or lodging if expenses
have not been incurred or a receipt of the cost of the travel, meals, or
lodging if the expenses have already been incurred;
      2.   The name of the individual who received or is requesting the travel,
meal, or lodging expense;
      3.   The job title or office of the individual who received or is
requesting the travel, meal, or lodging expense; and
      4.   The date or dates and nature of the official business in which the
travel, meal, or lodging expense was or will be expended.
   B.   All documents and information submitted under this section are public
records subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 140/1 et seq. (Ord. 2016-021, 12-13-2016, eff. 1-1-2017)
1-12-6: ENTERTAINMENT EXPENSES:
No employee or officer of the County shall be reimbursed by the County for any
entertainment expense. (Ord. 2016-021, 12-13-2016, eff. 1-1-2017)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BODY PIERCING AND TATTOOING
SECTION:
2-1-1: Definitions
2-1-2: Body Art Technician Permit Requirements
2-1-3: Body Art Establishment Permit Requirements
2-1-4: Conditions Of Body Art Establishment Permits
2-1-5: Renewal Of Body Art Establishment Permits
2-1-6: Compliance With Provisions; Change Of Information
2-1-7: Premises Standards
2-1-8: Prohibitions Regarding Procedures
2-1-9: Information And Notice Of Procedures; Reporting Requirements
2-1-10: Client Medical History And Release
2-1-11: Performance Of Body Art Procedures
2-1-12: Records Kept
2-1-13: Equipment And Supplies; Sanitation And Sterilization Procedures
2-1-14: Storage And Disposal Of Waste
2-1-15: Temporary And Mobile Establishments Prohibited
2-1-16: Inspections
2-1-17: Department Personnel Competency Requirements
2-1-18: Fees
2-1-19: Enforcement
2-1-20: Suspension Or Revocation Of Permits
2-1-21: Violation; Penalties
2-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, as used in this chapter, shall be defined as follows:
ANTISEPTIC: An agent that destroys disease causing microorganisms on human skin
or mucosa.
BIOMEDICAL WASTE: Any solid or liquid waste which may present a threat of
infection to humans, including nonliquid tissue, body parts, blood, blood
products, and body fluids from humans and other primates; laboratory and
veterinary wastes which contain human disease causing agents; and discarded
sharps. The following are also included: a) used, absorbent materials saturated
with blood, blood products, body fluids or excretions or secretions
contaminated with visible blood and absorbent materials saturated with blood or
blood products that have dried; and b) nonabsorbent, disposable devices that
have been contaminated with blood but have not been treated by an approved
method.
BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT: Any permanent place or premises where body art
procedures are performed.
BODY ART OR BODY ART PROCEDURE: The practice of applying physical body
adornment to an individual using such invasive methods as body piercing,
tattooing, cosmetic tattooing, branding, scarification, or similar procedures.
This term does not include ear piercing or any procedure performed by a
physician licensed pursuant to Illinois law.
BODY PIERCING: Penetrating the skin to make a hole, mark, or scar that is
generally permanent in nature, including, but not limited to, micro-dermal
anchors, acts of suspension and sub- dermal/trans-dermal implants. "Body
piercing" does not include practices that are considered medical procedures or
the puncturing of the non-cartilaginous portion or lobe of the ear using a pre-
sterilized, single-use stud-and-clasp ear piercing system.
DEPARTMENT: The Grundy County Health Department.
DISINFECTION: The destruction of disease causing microorganisms on inanimate
objects or surfaces, thereby rendering these objects safe for use or handling.
EAR PIERCING: Puncturing the outer perimeter or lobe of the ear using a
presterilized single use stud and clasp ear piercing system following
manufacturer's instructions.
EQUIPMENT: All machinery, including fixtures, containers, vessels, tools,
devices, implements, furniture, display and storage areas, sinks and all other
apparatus and appurtenances used in connection with the operation of a body art
establishment.
HAND SINK: A lavatory equipped with hot and cold running water under pressure
used solely for washing hands, arms or other portions of the body.
HOT WATER: Water which attains and maintains a temperature of at least one
hundred twenty degrees Fahrenheit (120°F).
INSTRUMENTS USED FOR BODY ART: Hand pieces, needles, needle bars, and other
instruments that can come into contact with a client's body or may be exposed
to bodily fluids during body art procedures.
INVASIVE: Entry into the body either by incision or insertion of an instrument
into or through the skin or mucosa, or by any other means intended to puncture,
break, or compromise the skin or mucosa.
JEWELRY: Any personal ornament inserted into a newly pierced area, which has
been properly sterilized prior to use.
LIQUID CHEMICAL GERMICIDE: A disinfectant or sanitizer registered with the
Environmental Protection Agency, or an approximate one to one hundred (1:100)
dilution of household chlorine bleach made fresh daily and dispensed from a
spray bottle (500 ppm; 1/4 cup/gal.; or 2 tablespoons/quart of tap water).
MOBILE BODY ART VEHICLE: A vehicle which is self-propelled or otherwise movable
from place to place and is self-sufficient for utilities such as gas, water,
electricity and liquid waste disposal, which operates at a fixed location and
where a technician performs body art procedures for fourteen (14) consecutive
days or less in conjunction with a product demonstration, industry trade show,
educational training or other special event.
PERMIT: Written approval by the department to operate a body art establishment
or to perform body art procedures. Permits are issued in accordance with these
regulations and are separate and distinct from any other licensing or permit
requirements of the local government.
PERSON: An individual, any form of business or social organization, or any
other nongovernmental legal entity including, but not limited to, a
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association, trust, or
unincorporated organization.
PHYSICIAN: A person licensed by the State to practice medicine.
PROCEDURE SURFACE: The skin area adjacent to and including the area where a
body art procedure is applied, any surface of an inanimate object that contacts
the client's unclothed body during a body art procedure, or any associated work
area which may require sanitizing.
SANITIZE OR SANITIZATION PROCEDURE: A process of reducing the numbers of
microorganisms on cleaned surfaces and equipment to a safe level in accordance
with public health standards by a method approved by the department.
SHARPS: Objects capable of puncturing, lacerating, or otherwise penetrating the
skin.
SHARPS CONTAINER: A rigid, leak and puncture resistant container, designed
primarily for the containment of sharps, clearly labeled with the phrase and
international biological hazard symbol.
SINGLE USE: Those products or items intended by the manufacturer for one time,
one (1) person use and disposal after use. Items include, but are not limited
to, cotton swabs or balls, tissues or paper products, paper or plastic cups,
gauze and sanitary coverings, razors, piercing needles, scalpel blades,
stencils, ink cups, and protective gloves.
STERILIZATION: A very powerful process resulting in the destruction of all
forms of microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial spores.
TATTOOING: Any method of placing ink or other pigment into or under the skin or
mucosa by the aid of needles or any other instruments used to puncture the skin
which results in permanent coloration of the skin or mucosa, including all
forms of cosmetic tattooing.
TECHNICIAN OR BODY ART TECHNICIAN: A person who performs body art procedures.
TEMPORARY BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT: A fixed location where body art procedures
are performed for a period of not more than fourteen (14) consecutive days and
in conjunction with a single event or celebration.
UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS: A set of guidelines and controls, published by the
Center for Disease Control (CDC) as "Guidelines for Prevention of Transmission
of Human Immunodeficiency Virus and Hepatitis B Virus to Health Care and Public
Safety Workers" in "Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report", June 23, 1989, vol.
38, no. 8-6, and as "Recommendations for Preventing Transmission of Human
Immunodeficiency Virus and Hepatitis B Virus to Patients During Exposure Prone
Invasive Procedures", in "Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report", July 12,
1991, vol. 40, no. RR-8. This method of infection control requires the employer
and the employee to assume that all human blood and specified human body fluids
are infectious for HIV, HBV, and other blood pathogens. Precautions include
hand washing, gloving, personal protective equipment, injury prevention, and
proper handling and disposal of needles, other sharp instruments, and blood and
body fluid contaminated products. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-1999; amd. Ord. 2016-008,
10-11-2016)
2-1-2: BODY ART TECHNICIAN PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to perform body
art procedures without first obtaining a body art technician permit as provided
herein.
   B.   Application For Permit: Every applicant for a body art technician
permit shall submit an application to the department providing:
      1.   Name;
      2.   Date of birth;
      3.   Gender;
      4.   Residence address;
      5.   Mailing address;
      6.   Home/work phone numbers;
      7.   Photograph;
      8.   Place(s) of employment as a technician; and
      9.   Training and experience in body art procedures. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-
1999)
   C.   Qualifications Of Applicant:
      1.   Applicants must be a minimum of eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   Applicants must meet all the requirements of Illinois Administrative
Code title 77, chapter 1, subchapter m, part 797, section 1300. (Ord. 2016-008,
10-11-2016)
   D.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon determination that the applicant meets the
minimum requirements set forth herein, the department shall issue a body art
technician permit to the applicant.
   E.   Display Of Permit: The technician's permit shall be displayed within
his or her procedure area in a prominent and conspicuous place where it may be
readily observed by clients of the technician. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-1999; amd.
Ord. 2016-008, 10-11-2016)
   F.   Expiration Of Permit: The technician's permit will expire on December
31 of each year and must be renewed before this date annually. Renewal notices
will be mailed by December 1 of each year. (Ord. 2016-008, 10-11-2016)
2-1-3: BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a body
art establishment without first obtaining a body art establishment permit as
provided herein.
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Every applicant for a body art establishment permit shall submit an
application to the department providing:
         a.   Owner name (if partnership or corporation, include names and
resident addresses of all partners, officers, directors and the name of its
resident agent for purpose of service);
         b.   Establishment name;
         c.   Street address;
         d.   Mailing address;
         e.   Proposed hours of operation;
         f.   Names of all body art technicians and their exact duties;
         g.   Description of all body art procedures to be performed or not
performed;
         h.   An inventory of all body art equipment to be utilized, including
names of manufacturers;
         i.   Names and addresses of suppliers of body art equipment and
supplies utilized; and
         j.   Name, local address, and local residence telephone number of the
individual who shall be responsible for operation of the body art
establishment.
      2.   A scale drawing and floor plan of the establishment and proof of
meeting the minimum requirements established herein shall be submitted with the
application.
   C.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon determination that the minimum requirements
for a body art establishment set forth in this chapter have been met, the
department shall issue a body art establishment permit to the applicant.
   D.   Nontransferability Of Permit: A body art establishment permit shall not
be transferable.
   E.   Permit To Be Posted: The body art establishment permit shall be posted
within the establishment in a prominent and conspicuous area where it may be
readily observed by clients. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-1999)
2-1-4: CONDITIONS OF BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT PERMITS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform body art procedures
except within a body art establishment. Body art shall not be conducted in
mobile body art vehicles or temporary body art establishments.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a body art establishment
to permit body art procedures to be performed by anyone who does not have a
current valid body art technician permit issued by the department. (Ord. 99-
060, 10-12-1999)
2-1-5: RENEWAL OF BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT PERMITS:
Body art establishment permits will expire annually on March 1. Fees for
renewing permits issued by the County Health Department shall be due thirty
(30) calendar days prior to the expiration date of the existing permit. (Ord.
2016-008, 10-11-2016)
2-1-6: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS; CHANGE OF INFORMATION:
Permittees shall maintain compliance with all requirements of this chapter.
Permittees shall notify the department within ten (10) days of any change of
information provided in accordance with subsections 2-1-2B and 2-1-3B of this
chapter. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-1999)
2-1-7: PREMISES STANDARDS:
   A.   Ventilation And Light: The establishment shall be well ventilated and
shall have an artificial light source equivalent to at least twenty (20) foot-
candles at three feet (3') above floor level, and at least one hundred (100)
foot-candles at the level where the body art procedure is performed and where
instruments and sharps are assembled.
   B.   Floors, Walls, Ceilings And Other Surfaces:
      1.   All walls, floors, ceilings, and procedure surfaces shall be light
colored, washable, smooth, free of open holes or cracks, and shall be
maintained in good repair and clean condition. Carpeting is not permitted
within the body art procedure area.
      2.   All procedure surfaces, including client chairs and benches, shall
be of such construction as to be easily cleaned and sanitized after each
client, with a liquid chemical germicide.
   C.   Procedure Areas:
      1.   Each technician working in the establishment shall have a procedure
area with at least forty five (45) square feet of floor space.
      2.   Each establishment shall have at least one (1) procedure area
completely screened from public view for clients requesting privacy.
      3.   All body art procedure areas shall be completely separated by solid
partitions or by walls extending from floor to ceiling from any room used for
human habitation or food preparation, and from any food establishment, hair
salon, retail business, or other such activity, which could contaminate work
surfaces.
   D.   Partitions: Multiple body art stations shall be separated by dividers,
curtains, or partitions, at a minimum.
   E.   Hand Sinks And Lavatories: A separate hand sink with hot and cold
running water, under pressure, preferably equipped with wrist or foot operated
controls, and supplied with liquid soap and disposable paper towels shall be
located within or immediately adjacent to the body art procedure area(s). One
(1) hand sink shall serve no more than three (3) operators. In the absence of a
separate equipment washing sink, hand sinks may be used for initial cleaning of
instruments and equipment prior to sanitization or sterilization procedures. In
addition, there shall be a minimum of one (1) lavatory, excluding any service
sinks, and one (1) toilet for use by clients and customers in each body art
establishment. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-1999)
   F.   Waste Receptacles:
      1.   At least one (1) covered, nonmedical waste receptacle shall be
provided in each procedure area and each toilet room.
      2.   Separate medical waste containers with proper labeling shall be
provided in each procedure area.
      3.   Receptacles shall be emptied daily, and solid waste shall be removed
from the premises at least weekly.
      4.   All refuse containers shall be lidded, cleanable, and shall be kept
clean.
   G.   Insects And Vermin:
      1.   Effective measures shall be taken to prevent the entrance of
insects, vermin, and rodents into the establishment, such as screened openings
and automatic closures on doors.
      2.   No insects, vermin, and rodents shall be present in any part of the
establishment, its appurtenances, or appertaining premises. (Ord. 03-018, 11-
13-2003)
   H.   Animals Restricted: No animals of any kind shall be allowed in a body
art establishment, except service animals used by persons with disabilities
(e.g., seeing eye dogs). Fish aquariums may be allowed in waiting rooms and
nonprocedural areas. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-1999)
2-1-8: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Underage Persons: No person shall perform or permit the performance of
tattooing procedures upon a person under eighteen (18) years of age, and no
person shall perform or permit the performance of all other body art procedures
upon a person under eighteen (18) years of age without parental or legal
guardian consent. (Ord. 2016-008, 10-11-2016)
   B.   Incoherent Persons: No technician or body art establishment personnel
shall perform or permit the performance of body art procedures on any person
who appears incoherent for any reason or appears to be under the influence of
alcohol or drugs.
   C.   Infected Persons:
      1.   Clients: No technician or body art establishment personnel shall
perform or permit the performance of body art procedures on any skin or mucosa
surface where a rash or any visible infection is present. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-
1999)
      2.   Employees: No person affected with boils, infected wounds, open
sores, abrasions, weeping dermatological lesions, or acute respiratory
infection shall work in any area of a body art establishment in any capacity in
which there is a likelihood that the person could contaminate body art
equipment, supplies, instruments, or working surfaces with body substances or
pathogenic organisms. (Ord. 03-018, 11-13-2003)
   D.   Ear Piercing Systems On Other Body Parts: Ear piercing systems using
studs and clasps shall not be used anywhere on the body other than the outer
perimeter and lobe of the ear. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-1999)
   E.   Smoking, Eating, Drinking: Smoking, eating, or drinking is strictly
prohibited in the body art procedure area.
   F.   Influence Of Alcohol Or Drugs: No technician shall perform any body art
procedure if under the influence of alcohol or drugs. (Ord. 2016-008, 10-11-
2016)
2-1-9: INFORMATION AND NOTICE OF PROCEDURES; REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Verbal And Written Information:
      1.   Every person requesting a body art procedure shall be provided with
verbal and written public educational information prior to the start of the
procedure, in a form approved by the department. The client shall be given a
copy of the above information and shall sign the form stating he has read the
material. A signed copy shall be retained by the facility for five (5) years.
(Ord. 03-018, 11-13-2003)
      2.   Every person receiving a body art procedure shall be provided with
verbal and written instructions for aftercare of the body art procedure site,
in a form approved by the department. The instructions shall advise the client
of proper care for the healing of the body specific to the procedure performed
and to consult a physician at the first sign of infection or swelling. The
instructions shall include the name, address, and phone number of the
establishment and the printed name of the technician who performed the
procedure.
      3.   The written information and aftercare instructions shall be signed
and dated by the client and the technician. The originals shall be retained by
the establishment, and copies shall be given to the client.
   B.   Disclosure Notice: Every body art establishment shall prominently
display the disclosure notice which shall be provided with each establishment
permit issued by the department, containing the following information:
      1.   Advising the public of the risks and possible consequences of body
art services;
      2.   The name, address, and phone number of the County Health Department;
and
      3.   The procedure for filing a complaint relating to body art services.
   C.   Report Of Infection Or Disease: Any infection, complication, or disease
resulting from a body art procedure which becomes known to the technician or
establishment shall be reported to the department within twenty four (24)
hours. The technician and the establishment shall be jointly and severally
responsible for reporting such information. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-1999)
2-1-10: CLIENT MEDICAL HISTORY AND RELEASE:
   A.   Prior to performing any body art procedure, in order to properly
evaluate the client's medical condition for receiving a body art procedure, the
technician shall specifically request from the client, verbally and in writing,
the following information:
      1.   History of diabetes;
      2.   History of hemophilia (bleeding);
      3.   History of skin diseases, skin lesions or skin sensitivities to
soaps, disinfectants, etc.;
      4.   History of allergies or adverse reactions to pigments, dyes, or
other skin sensitivities;
      5.   History of epilepsy, seizures, fainting or narcolepsy;
      6.   Current or recent medications, such as anticoagulants, which thin
the blood or interfere with blood clotting; and
      7.   Any other information that would aid in evaluating the client's body
art healing expectations.
   B.   Prior to performing any body art procedure, the technician shall obtain
a release form signed by the client confirming that the technician obtained or
attempted to obtain the medical history, and listing the information provided.
   C.   The technician may refuse to perform a body art procedure if the client
refuses to disclose the information requested. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-1999)
2-1-11: PERFORMANCE OF BODY ART PROCEDURES:
   A.   When performing body art procedures, the technician shall maintain a
high degree of personal cleanliness, conform to hygienic practices, wear clean
clothes, and his or her skin shall be free of rash or infection. (Ord. 99-060,
10-12-1999)
   B.   Before performing a body art procedure, the immediate skin and
surrounding skin area where the body art procedure is to be applied shall be
washed with soap and water or an approved surgical skin preparation, depending
on the type of body art to be performed. If shaving is necessary, a single-use
disposable razor shall be used, then discarded into an approved sharps
container. After shaving, the skin and surrounding area shall be washed with
soap and water, and the washing pad shall be discarded.
   C.   Immediately before performing body art procedures on an individual, the
technician shall thoroughly wash his or her hands in hot running water with use
of liquid soap, then rinse hands and dry with disposable paper towels. This
shall be done as many times as necessary to remove contaminants. After hand
washing is completed, the technician shall don disposable medical gloves. Both
latex and nonlatex gloves shall be available in the facility at all times in
case a technician or a client is sensitive to latex. (Ord. 03-018, 11-13-2003)
   D.   The technician shall wear disposable medical gloves during all
procedures. Gloves shall be discarded after the completion of each procedure on
an individual client, and hands washed prior to donning the next set of gloves.
Under no circumstances shall a single pair of gloves be used on more than one
(1) person. The use of disposable medical gloves does not preclude or
substitute for the hand washing procedures described herein. Hands shall also
be washed at the conclusion of all procedures.
   E.   If, prior to or while performing a body art procedure, the technician's
glove or gloves are pierced or torn or become contaminated by contact with any
nonclean surface or object, by contact with a third person, or otherwise, the
technician shall immediately discard the gloves, repeat the hand washing
procedure, and put on a fresh pair of gloves to complete the procedure.
   F.   Any instrument used for body art, which is contaminated during the
procedure, shall be discarded and replaced immediately with a new disposable or
sterilized instrument before the procedure resumes. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-1999)
2-1-12: RECORDS KEPT:
   A.   Record Of Procedures: The body art establishment shall keep a record of
all body art procedures performed. The record shall include the client's name,
date of birth, client's address, date of the procedure, type and location of
each procedure performed, name of the technician who performed each procedure,
signature of client, and, if the client is a minor, proof of parental or
guardian presence and written consent. Signed copies of the client release form
and aftercare forms shall also be maintained by the establishment. All records
shall be available for inspection by the department, upon request.
   B.   Medical Information Confidential: Records containing a client's
personal medical information shall be considered confidential by the
establishment. The department shall keep personal medical information
confidential, to the extent disclosure is not required under Illinois Statutes,
in the administration and enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-
1999)
   C.   Period Of Record Retention: All records required by this chapter shall
be retained by the establishment for a minimum of five (5) years. (Ord. 2016-
008, 10-11-2016)
2-1-13: EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES; SANITATION AND STERILIZATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Both sterilized and clean instruments and supplies shall be stored in
clean, dry, covered containers.
   B.   All instruments used in body art procedures shall remain stored in
sterile packages until just prior to use. Sterile instruments and equipment
shall not be used if the package has been breached or the expiration date has
expired, without first repackaging and resterilizing.
   C.   All products used to check the flow of blood or to absorb blood shall
be single use and disposable.
   D.   All products applied to the skin, including body art stencils, shall be
single use and disposable; except, that acetate stencils shall be allowed for
reuse if sanitization procedures are performed between uses upon approval of
the department. Petroleum jellies, soaps and other products used in the
application of stencils shall be dispensed and applied on the area to be
tattooed with sterile gauze or in a manner to prevent contamination of the
original container and its contents. The gauze shall be used only once and then
discarded.
   E.   All inks, dyes, pigments, needles, and instruments used shall be
specifically manufactured for performing body art procedures, and shall be used
according to manufacturer's instructions. The mixing of approved inks, dyes, or
pigments, or their dilution, with potable water is acceptable. Immediately
before applying a tattoo, the quantity of the dye to be used shall be
transferred from the dye bottle and placed into single use paper or plastic
cups or caps. Upon completion of the tattoo, these single cups or caps and
their contents shall be discarded.
   F.   Jewelry used in body art procedures shall be made only of the following
materials: surgical implant grade stainless steel; solid fourteen karat (14k)
or eighteen karat (18k) white or yellow gold; niobium; titanium; platinum; or a
dense, low porosity plastic. All jewelry shall be free of nicks, scratches, or
irregular surfaces, and shall be properly sterilized prior to use.
   G.   When assembling instruments used for performing body art procedures,
the technician shall wear disposable medical gloves and shall use medically
recognized techniques to ensure that the instruments and gloves are not
contaminated.
   H.   Single use items shall be discarded immediately after each use and
shall not be used on more than one (1) client for any reason. (Ord. 99-060, 10-
12-1999)
   I.   All nonequipment type items shall be disposable.
   J.   Every body art establishment shall have a department approved
sterilizer, unless only sterile supplies and single use disposable instruments
and products are used. Sterilizers shall be located away from procedure areas
and areas frequented by the public. Department approved sterilizers shall be
those units as approved by policy established by the Health Department. (Ord.
03-018, 11-13-2003)
   K.   The following process shall be followed after each use for all
nonsingle use, nondisposable instruments used for body art:
      1.   The instrument shall be cleaned by scrubbing with an appropriate
soap or disinfectant solution and hot water or by following the manufacturer's
cleaning instructions to remove blood and tissue residue.
      2.   The instrument shall be placed in an ultrasonic unit, which shall be
operated in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   The instrument shall be packed individually in a peel pack
containing either a sterilizer indicator or internal temperature indicator, and
sterilized.
      4.   Peel packs shall be dated with an expiration date not to exceed six
(6) months.
   L.   Sterilizers shall be used, cleaned, and maintained according to
manufacturer's instructions. The sterilizer shall be an approved autoclave and
be approved by the American Association of Medical Instrumentation. The
autoclave shall be operated in accordance with operating standards promulgated
by AAMI. A copy of the manufacturer's recommended procedures for the operation
of the sterilization unit shall be available for inspection by the department.
(Ord. 99-060, 10-12-1999)
   M.   Each body art establishment shall demonstrate by monthly spore
destruction tests that the sterilizer used is capable of attaining
sterilization. The tests shall be verified through an independent laboratory.
Test records shall be retained for a period of five (5) years and shall be made
available to the department upon request. The establishment permit shall not be
issued or renewed until documentation of the sterilizer's ability to destroy
spores is received by the department. (Ord. 2016-008, 10-11-2016)
2-1-14: STORAGE AND DISPOSAL OF WASTE:
   A.   Biomedical Wastes:
      1.   Storage of biomedical waste on site shall not exceed the period
specified by the department, or more than seven (7) days. (Ord. 03-018, 11-13-
2003)
      2.   Biomedical waste, which may release liquid blood or body fluids when
compressed or which may release dried blood or body fluids when handled, shall
be placed in a #A approved "red" bag marked with the international biohazard
symbol, and disposed of by a one inch (1") potentially infectious medical waste
transporter, permitted by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   B.   Products Coming In Contact With Blood: All products used to check the
flow of blood or to absorb blood shall be disposed of immediately after use in
appropriate covered containers, unless the disposal product meets the
definition of "biomedical waste".
   C.   Nonbiomedical Waste: Nonbiomedical waste which does not release liquid
blood or body fluids when compressed, or does not release dried blood or body
fluids when handled, shall be placed in a covered receptacle and disposed of
through normal, approved disposal methods.
   D.   Sharp Objects: Sharps shall be disposed of in approved sharps
containers. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-1999)
2-1-15: TEMPORARY AND MOBILE ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED:
The operation of temporary or mobile body art establishments in the County is
prohibited. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-1999)
2-1-16: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Frequency Of Inspections: The department may conduct inspections as
often as necessary throughout the year to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   B.   Identification Required: A representative of the department shall
properly identify himself or herself before entering a body art establishment
to make an inspection.
   C.   Interference With Inspectors Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person
to interfere with the department or its representatives in the performance of
their duties.
   D.   Reports: Following an inspection, a copy of the inspection report shall
be furnished to the permittee. The department shall retain the original of all
inspection reports. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-1999)
2-1-17: DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL COMPETENCY REQUIREMENTS:
Department personnel performing environmental health/sanitary evaluations or
complaint investigations of body art establishments or technicians shall meet
the same requirements as specified for technicians in subsection
2-1-2C2 of this chapter prior to assuming responsibilities. (Ord. 99-060, 10-
12-1999)
2-1-18: FEES:
The department shall collect reasonable fees in connection with the
administration of this chapter. Those fees are as follows:
   Establishment: One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) (annual).
   Artist: Fifty dollars ($50.00) (annual).
   Plan review: One hundred dollars ($100.00) (one-time fee).
   Re-inspection fee: Sixty dollars ($60.00). (Ord. 2016-008, 10-11-2016)
2-1-19: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Existing Establishments; Time For Compliance: Establishments operating
at the effective date hereof shall be given a prescribed amount of time to make
application to the department and comply with these regulations. Establishments
that continue to operate without proper permits from the department or operate
in violation of these regulations will be subject to legal remedial actions and
sanctions as provided by law.
   B.   Notice To Correct Violations: If, after investigation, the department
should find that a permittee or operator is in violation of this chapter, the
department may, in the alternative, advise the permittee or operator, in
writing, of its findings and instruct the operator to take specific steps to
correct such violations within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed
thirty (30) days. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-1999)
   C.   Disease Conditions Suspected: If the department has reasonable cause to
suspect that a communicable disease is or may be transmitted by an operator,
use of unapproved or malfunctioning equipment, or unsanitary or unsafe
conditions which may adversely impact the health of the public, upon written
notice to the owner or operator, the department may do any or all of the
following:
      1.   Issue an order excluding any or all operators from the permitted
body art establishment who are responsible, or reasonably appear responsible,
for the transmission of a communicable disease until the department determines
there is no further risk to public health.
      2.   Issue an order to immediately suspend the permit of the licensed
establishment until the department determines there is no further risk to the
public health. Such an order shall state the cause for the action. (Ord. 03-
018, 11-13-2003)
2-1-20: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
   A.   Suspension Of Permits:
      1.   Temporary Suspension: Permits issued under the provisions of this
chapter may be suspended temporarily by the department for failure of the
holder to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Notice Of Suspension: Whenever a permit holder or operator has
failed to comply with any notice issued under the provisions of this chapter,
the operator must be notified in writing that the permit is, upon service of
this notice, immediately suspended. The notice must also contain a statement
informing the permit holder or operator that an opportunity for a hearing will
be provided if a written request for a hearing is filed with the department
within the time specified by law.
      3.   Reinstatement Of Permit: Any person whose permit has been suspended
may, at any time, make application for reinstatement of the permit. Within ten
(10) days following receipt of a written request, including a statement signed
by the applicant that in his opinion the conditions causing the suspension have
been corrected, and the submission of the appropriate reinspection fees, the
department shall reinspect the body art establishment or evaluate documentation
provided by an operator. If the applicant is in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, the permit will be reinstated.
   B.   Revocation Of Permits:
      1.   For repeated or serious (any infraction of this chapter that
threatens the health of the client or operator) violations of any of the
requirements of this chapter or for interference with department personnel in
the performance of their duties, a permit may be permanently revoked after a
hearing. Before taking such action, the department shall notify the permit
holder or operator in writing, stating the reasons for which the permit is
subject to revocation, and advising the permit holder or operator of the
requirements for filing a request for a hearing. A permit may be suspended for
cause, pending its revocation or hearing relative thereto.
      2.   The department may permanently revoke a permit after five (5) days
following service of the notice, unless a request for a hearing is filed within
the five (5) day period with the department by the permit holder.
   C.   Hearings And Decisions: The hearings provided for in this section must
be conducted by the department at a time and place designated by the
department. Based upon the record of the hearing, the department shall make a
finding and may sustain, modify, or rescind any official notice or order
considered in the hearing. A written report of the hearing decision must be
furnished to the permit holder or operator by the department. (Ord. 99-060, 10-
12-1999)
2-1-21: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a petty offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from continuing
such violations. Each day upon which such violation occurs constitutes a
separate violation. (Ord. 99-060, 10-12-1999)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
2-2-1: Definitions
2-2-2: Adoption Of Illinois Liquor Control Act By Reference
2-2-3: Liquor Control Commissioner And Commission
2-2-4: Retail Liquor Dealer’s License
2-2-5: Emergency Colsure
2-2-6: Procedure For Suspension, Revocation, And Imposition Of Fines
2-2-7: Minors
2-2-8: Acts Prohibited On Licensed Premises; Other Restrictions
2-2-9: Penalties
2-2-10:   General Provisions
2-2-11:   Liquor License Fee Schedule
2-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms as used in this
chapter shall be construed according to the definitions given below:
 
                  The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
ALCOHOL:          rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and
                  includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include
                  denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
                  Alcohol, spirits, wine and beer and every liquid or solid,
                  patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine and beer,
                  and capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to alcohol
                  used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol produced in
                  accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations promulgated
                  thereunder, not to any liquid or solid containing one-half of
                  one percent, or less, of alcohol by volume.
 
        A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or concoction of
BEER:   barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes, among other things,
        beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
        A courtyard or patio that is immediately adjacent to a licensee's retail sales
        facility. Any beer garden shall be fully screened from adjacent properties. If the
        property line of residentially zoned property, (A-R, R-1, R-2, R-3, or R-R), is
        located within one thousand (1,000) feet of a beer garden, hours of operation for
BEER    the beer garden shall be limited to the following: Monday through Friday - ten
GARDEN: o’clock (10:00) a.m. to nine o’clock (9:00) p.m., Saturday and Sunday - ten
        o’clock (10:00) a.m. to ten o’clock (10:00) p.m. Due to the fact that there is an
        additional fee for classes with beer gardens, it is recommended that this be taken
        into consideration when obtaining your initial license. (See attached fee
        schedule).
        A corporation organized under the laws of the State of Illinois, not for pecuniary
        profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
        consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members through
        the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or space in a
        building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and adequate for the
        reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its members and their guests
        and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and dining room space and
        equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants and employees for
        cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members and their guests;
        provided that such club files with the Grundy County Liquor Control Commissioner
CLUB:   at the time of its application for a license under this Ordinance two copies of a
        list of names and residences of its members, and similarly files within ten (10)
        days of the election of any additional member his or her name and address; and
        provided further, that its affairs and management are conducted by a board of
        directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members at their
        annual meeting and that no member or any officer, agent or employee of the club is
        paid, or directly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation, any
        profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or the
        members of the club or its guests introduced by members beyond the amount of such
        salary as may be fixed and voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its
        board of directors or other governing body out of the general revenue of the
        club.v
 
 
                        Every building or other structure kept, used
                        maintained, advertised and held out to the public to be
                        a place where food is actually served and consumed and
                        sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to
                        travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent or
                        residential in which twenty-five (25) or more rooms are
HOTEL:                  used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and
                        having one or more public dining rooms where meals are
                        served to such guests, such sleeping accommodations and
                        dining rooms being conducted in the same building or
                        buildings in connection therewith and such building or
                        buildings, structure or structures being provided with
                        adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment
                        and capacity.
                        Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and
                        held out to the public as a place where meals are
                        served, and where meals are actually and regularly
RESTAURANT:             served, without sleeping accommodations, such space
                        being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and
                        dining room equipment and capacity having employed
                        therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to
                        prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
RETAIL SALE:            The sale for use or consumption and not for resale in
                        any form.
                        An event conducted by an educational fraternal,
SPECIAL EVENT:          political, civic, religious, or non-profit
                        organization, or an entity that has been approved as a
                        Special Use venue per County ordinance.
                        An educational, fraternal, political, civic, religious
                        or not-profit organization which sells or offers for
SPECIAL EVENT RETAILER: sale beer or wine, or both, only for consumption at the
                        location and on the dates designated by a special event
                        retail license.
 
 
         Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
         with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum,
SPIRITS: whiskey, gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when
         rectified, blended or otherwise mixed with alcohol or other
         substances.
         Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
WINE:    contents of fruits, or vegetables, containing sugar, including such
         beverages which fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as
         above defined. (Ord. 14-007, 4-8-2014)
 
2-2-2: ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL ACT BY REFERENCE:
Grundy County herein adopts the provisions of hte Illinois Liquor Control Act,
235 ILCS 5/1-1, et seq., as presently drafted and as may hereafter by amended,
by reference, in its entirety (“the Act”). Any violation of the Act shall also
be a violation of County Ordinance, punishable by fine. (Ord. 14-007, 4-8-2014)
2-2-3: LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER AND COMMISSION:
   A.   Liquor Control Commissioner. The Chairman of the Grundy County Board
shall be the Liquor Control Commissioner for the territory in Grundy County
outside of the incorporated cities, villages and towns.
   B.   Liquor Control Commission. The Chairman of the Grundy County Board,
together with a committee, which he or she may appoint, shall constitute the
Grundy County Liquor Control Commission.
      1.   Qualifications. No person shall be appointed to the Grundy County
Liquor Control Commission who has been convicted of any violation of any
federal, state or local law concerning the manufacture or sale of alcoholic
liquor or who has paid a fine or penalty in settlement of prosecution against
him for any violation of such laws or shall have forfeited his bond to appear
in court to answer charges for any such violation, nor shall any person be
appointed who has been convicted for a felony. Furthermore, no commissioner
may, directly or indirectly, individually or as a member of a partnership or as
a shareholder of a corporation have any interest whatsoever in the purchases or
sales made by the persons authorized by this chapter, or to purchase or sell
alcoholic liquor. No provision of this section shall prevent any commissioner
from purchasing and keeping in his possession for the use of him or herself or
members of his or family or guests any alcoholic liquor which may be purchased
or kept by any person by virtue of this chapter.
      2.   Gifts, etc., to Commissioner; Penalty. Members of the Grundy County
Liquor Commission shall not solicit or accept any gift, gratuity, emolument or
employment from any person subject to the provisions of this chapter, or from
any officer, agent or employee thereof, nor solicit, request from or recommend,
directly or indirectly, to any such person or to any officer, agent or employee
thereof, the appointment of any person to any place or position, and every such
person, and every officer, agent or employee thereof, is hereby forbidden to
offer to any commissioner, any gift, gratuity, emolument or employment. If any
commissioner shall violate any of the provisions of this section, he or she
shall be removed from the office or employment held by him.
      3.   Powers and Duties of the Commission and Commissioner. The Grundy,
County Liquor Control Commission and Commissioner shall have the following
powers, functions and duties:
         a.   To receive applications, investigate applicants and grant, renew,
or deny liquor licenses, and to issue licenses for retail sale of alcoholic
liquor in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and to delegate to
staff the authority to approve special event permits for licensees possessing
the requisite annual permits and licensure.
         b.   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant
for a Retail Liquor Dealer's License, or for the renewal thereof, and to
examine, or cause to be examined, the books and records of any applicant or
licensee; to hear testimony and take proofs of the information provided in his
or her application; and to issue subpoenas for the purpose of examining an
applicant for a Retail Liquor Dealer's License. For the purpose of
administering or enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the Commissioner
may, at his discretion, hold public hearings at any time within the County
concerning any matter embraced within this chapter, and may exercise any
authority permitted under State law.
         c.   To suspend for not more than thirty days or revoke licenses upon
the Liquor Control Commission's determination, upon notice after hearing, that
a licensee has violated any provision of this chapter, any laws of the United
States relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor or any of the provisions of
alcoholic liquor or any of the provisions of hte Illinois Liquor Control Act,
or any applicable rules and regulations adopted by the Liquor Commission or by
the State of Illinois. Any action by the Liquor Control Commission to suspend
or revoke a licensee's license is limited to the license of the specific
premises where the violation occurred. In lieu of suspending or revoking a
license the commission may imposes a fine, upon the commission's determination
and notice after hearing, that a licensee has violated any provision of this
chapter.
         d.   To enter and inspects or authorize any law enforcement officer or
other County personnel to enter and inspect, any premises in Grundy County
licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions of this Ordinance
or of the Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1934 have been or are being violated.
         e.   To notify the Secretary of State when a club, incorporated under
the General Not for Profit Corporation Act of 1986 or a foreign corporation
functioning as a club in the State of Illinois under a certificate of authority
issued under that Act, has violated the Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1934 by
selling or offering for retail sale alcoholic liquors without a license.
         f.   To receive complaints from licensees, local officials, law
enforcement agencies, organizations and other persons, stating that any
licensee has been or is violating any provision of this ordinance or any
provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1934. Such complaints shall be
in writing, signed, and sworn by the person making the complaint, and shall
state with specificity the facts in relation to the alleged violation. If the
Liquor Control Commission has reasonable grounds to believe that the complaint
substantially alleges a violation of this chapter or of the Liquor Control Act,
it shall conduct an investigation. If, after conducting an investigation, the
commission is satisfied that the alleged violation did occur, it shall proceed
with disciplinary action against the licensee as provided in this chapter.
         g.   To receive local license fees and pay the same forthwith to the
County Treasurer as the case may be.
         h.   To notify the Secretary of State of any convictions for a
violation of Section 6-20 of the Illinois Liquor Control Ordinance of 1934 or
Section 4 of this chapter.
         i.   To suspend or revoke any license issued by him or her if the
Liquor Commissioner determines, after hearing. that there was any physical
attack or fight involving a weapon on the premises, or if there was any
unlawful discharge of a firearm on the premises. (Ord. 14-007, 4-8-2014)
2-2-4: RETAIL LIQUOR DEALER'S LICENSE:
   A.   License required. It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for retail sale
any place in Grundy County outside the limits of any incorporated cities, towns
and villages, any alcoholic liquor without having a Grundy County Retail Liquor
Dealer's License or in violation of such license.
   B.   Application. Applications and renewal applications for a Grundy County
Retail Liquor Dealer's License shall be provided by the Secretary of the Grundy
County Board. The application must be made in writing, signed by the applicant,
if an individual, or by an authorized agent thereof if a club or corporation,
verified by oath or affidavit, and shall contain the following information and
statements:
      1.   The applicant's name, mailing address and telephone number;
      2.   The name and address of the applicant's business;
      3.   In the case of a co-partnership, the date of the formation of the
copartnership;
      4.   In the case of a corporation for profit, the objects for which it
was organized, the names and addresses of the officers and directors, and if a
majority in interest of the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or
his nominees, the name and address of such person;
      5.   In the case of a club, the objects for which it was organized and
the names and addresses of the officers and directors;
      6.   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      7.   The character of business of the applicant and the length of time
that the applicant has been in business of that character, or in the case of a
corporation, the date on which its character was issued;
      8.   The address and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
      9.   A statement indicating whether the applicant has made similar
application for a similar other license on the premises, other than described
in this chapter, and the disposition of such application;
      10.   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony,
pandering or other crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality, and it
not disqualified to receive a license based on this chapter or the Illinois
Liquor Act of 1934;
      11.   Whether a previous license from any state or subdivision thereof or
from the federal government has been revoked and the reasons therefore;
      12.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the State of Illinois or of the United States, or any resolution of the Grundy
County Board in the conduct of his or her place of business.
   C.   Licensing Restrictions. A Retail Liquor Dealer's License shall not be
issued to:
      1.   A person who is not a resident of Grundy County;
      2.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States of America;
      3.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      4.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under State or Federal
law;
      5.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of, or is
keeping, a house of ill reputation;
      6.   A person who has been convicted of pandering, or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
      7.   A person whose Grundy County Retailer Liquor Dealer's License has
been revoked, or a person who has failed to comply with each and every
requirement of this chapter;
      8.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of a Retail
Liquor Dealer's License, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
      9.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of a
licensee;
      10.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
Retail Liquor Dealer's License is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      11.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee;
      12.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or
State law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
or who has forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for
any such violation;
      13.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as prescribed
by 710 ILCS 5/28-1 or 70 ILCS 5/28-3 as amended;
      14.   A co-partnership, unless all of the members of such co-partnership
are qualified to obtain a license;
      15.   A corporation, if any officer, manager, director or stockholder
owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such
corporation, would not be eligible to receive a Retail Liquor Dealer's License
for any reason other than citizenship or residence;
      16.   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it
is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Illinois Business
Corporation Act to transact business in Illinois;
      17.   A corporation, if any officer, manager, director or stockholder
thereof, owning the aggregate more than twenty percent (20%) of the stock of
such corporation, has been issued a Federal Gaming Device Stamp or a Federal
Wagering Stamp for the current tax period; unless the corporation is eligible
to be issued a license under the Raffles Act or the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar
Games Act;
      18.   A person or co-partnership, including any of the partners of the
copartnership, to which A Federal Gaming Device Stamp or a Federal Wagering
Stamp has been issued by the Federal Government for the current tax period;
unless that person or co-partnership is eligible to be issue a license under
the Raffles Act or the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act;
      19.   Any law enforcing public official, mayor, alderman, chairman or
member of the Grundy County Board, or president or member ofa village board of
trustees;
      20.   Any person, co-partnership, club or corporation not eligible for an
Illinois Retail Liquor Dealer's License.
      21.   Submission of a signed application for a liquor license and/or
acceptance or a liquor license constitutes the applicant’s consent to an
inspection of any and all portions of the licensed premises by the County:
         a.   At any time during the normal business hours of the licensed
premises, with or without advance notice; or
         b.   At such other time as the County shall designate to the
applicant/Licensee in writing, with not less than forty-eight (48) hours
advance notice. Inspections pursuant to this consent may be conducted by any
County personnel, including Sheriff Department, Land Use Department, or Health
Department, the Liquor Commissioner, or other staff authorized by the Liquor
Commissioner, for purposes of determining compliance with the provisions of
this Liquor Code, or for purposes of determining compliance with any other
applicable code or regulation.
   The consent for inspection shall extend to any portion of the premises. An
applicant or Licensee’s refusal to grant access to the premises for an
inspection shall constitute grounds for denial of a pending application
(without refund of any posted application fees) and shall constitute a
violation of this Liquor Code for liquor license holders, which may subject a
liquor Licensee to suspension or revocation of their liquor license, imposition
of fines and penalties under this Liquor Code, or both. The existence of code
violations shall justify suspension, denial, or non-renewal of a liquor
license.
      22.   In the event the Liquor Commissioner receives a liquor license
application which the Commissioner determines is not adequately regulated under
this Code, the Commissioner may temporarily delay review of the application for
purposes of seeking an amendment to this Code to add additional regulation.
   D.   Classifications of Retail Liquor Dealer's Licenses. Grundy County
Retail Liquor Dealer's Licenses shall be divided into the following classes:
      1.   Class 'A' Licenses which shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises, as well as the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor in packages for consumption off the premises;
      2.   Class 'B' Licenses which shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises of a club, as well as the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor in packages for consumption off the premises;
      3.   Class 'C' Licenses which shall authorize the retail sale of beer and
wine only, for consumption on the premises only;
      4.   Class 'D' Licenses which shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor in packages only and not for consumption where it is sold;
      5.   Class 'E' Licenses which shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises only while entertainment
events are being conducted;
      6.   Special Event Licenses which shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises where the special event
retailer shall be determined by the Liquor Control Commission. A Special Event
License may only be issued to a special event retailer and such retailer may
not be issued more than two special event licenses per year and are not to
exceed three (3) days each. A Special Event License may only be issued if the
special event retailer has obtained Dram Shop Insurance for the special event
and has provided the Liquor Control Committee with sufficient proof that such
insurance has been obtained.
   E.   Number of Retail Liquor Dealer's Licenses. The following number of
licenses shall be available for each license class:
      1.   Six (6) Class 'A' Licenses;
      2.   Four (4) Class 'B' Licenses;
      3.   One (1) Class 'C' License;
      4.   One (1) Class 'D' License;
      5.   One (1) Class 'E' License; and
      6.   There is no predetermined number of Special Event Licenses that may
be issued. The number of Special Event Licenses that may be issued is left to
the discretion of the Liquor Control Commission.
   F.   License fees. The fees for each class of license are found in the
Liquor License Fee Schedule that has been adopted by the Grundy County Board
and is attached to the license application.
   G.   Payment of License Fee. The license fee for Class 'A' through Class 'E'
Licenses shall be paid to the Liquor Control Commission when the application
for a Retail Liquor Dealer's License is submitted. The fee to be paid for a
Class 'A' through Class 'E' license for an initial application shall be reduced
in proportion to the full calendar months which have expired in the year prior
to the issuance of the license. If a Class 'A' through Class 'E' license is
merely being renewed for the following year, the required fee for the license
shall be paid on or before December 31 st• The license fee for a Special Event
License must be paid to the Liquor Control Commission upon approval of the
application for the license.
   H.   Disposition of License Fees. All fees collected for Retail Liquor
Dealer's Licenses shall be turned over by the Liquor Control Commission to the
County Treasurer's Office for the use of the County. In the event that an
applicant is not granted a license, the County Treasurer shall return the fee
to the applicant within thirty (30) days after notice has been sent to the
applicant that his or her application has been denied.
   I.   Term of Licenses. Class 'A' through Class 'E' licenses shall terminate
on December 31 of the year the license is granted. The duration of Special
Event Licenses shall be determined by the Liquor Control Commission on a case
by case basis.
   J.   Dram Shop Insurance. At the time a renewal application is made by the
licensee, and in the case of a successful new applicant within ten (10) days
after the application has been approved, the licensee or applicant shall
present evidence of Dram Shop Liability Insurance to the Liquor Control
Commission or Commissioner, issued by an insurance company licensed to do
business in the State of Illinois, insuring the applicant, and the owner or
lessor of the premises in at least the following amounts:
      1.   Forty five thousand dollars ($45,000.00) of general liability/
personal injury insurance per person;
      2.   Forty five thousand dollars ($45,000.00) of general liability/
property damage insurance per person;
      3.   Fifty five thousand dollars ($55,000.00) of general liability/loss
of means of support insurance per person.
   K.   Transfer of License. A Grundy County Retail Liquor Dealer's License
shall be purely a privilege, shall not constitute property, and shall not be
subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or be subject to being encumbered
or hypothecated. Such license shall not descent by the laws of testate or
intestate devolution, but shall cease upon the death of the licensee; unless
executors or administrators of the estate or any deceased licensee, and the
trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in
part of alcoholic liquor, may continue under order of an appropriate court, and
may exercise the privileges of the deceased, insolvent or bankrupt licensee,
after the death of such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the
expiration of such license, but no longer than six (6) months after the death,
bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made of that
portion of the license fees paid for any period in which the licensee shall be
prevented from operating under such license in accordance with the provisions
of this paragraph.
   L.   Change of Location. A Retail Liquor Dealer's License shall permit the
sale of alcoholic liquor only on the premises described in the application and
license. Such location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such
change issued by the Liquor Control Commission or Commissioner. An application
to change the location of the premises that is licensed under this chapter may
be obtained by the Secretary of the Grundy County Board and is subject to the
approval of the Liquor Control Commission.
   M.   Display of License. Every licensee shall frame and hang his or her
Retail Liquor Dealer's License in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
   N.   Display of Birth Defects Warning Sign. Every holder of a Retail Liquor
Dealer's License, whether the licensee sells or offers for sale alcoholic
liquors for use or consumption on or off the retail license premises, shall
cause a sign with the message: “GOVERNMENT WARNING: ACCORDING TO THE SURGEON
GENERAL, WOMEN SHOULD NOT DRINK ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES DURING PREGNANCY BECAUSE OF
THE RISK OF BIRTH DEFECTS” to be framed and hung in plain view. These signs
shall be no larger than 8 ½ inches by 11 inches. In the event there is no
warning sign posted on the licensee's premises refer to 235 ILCS 5/6-24a for
further action that must be taken and fines that may be levied for
noncompliance. (Ord. 14-007, 4-8-2014)
2-2-5: EMERGENCY CLOSURE:
All liquor license holders shall, as a condition of maintaining their license,
adhere to any emergency closure or suspension order issued by the Liquor
Commissioner in conformance with this section.
   A.   The Liquor Commissioner or the Liquor Commissioner’s authorized
designee shall be authorized to temporarily suspend the sale of alcoholic
beverages and/or require the temporary closure of any premises subject ot which
a liquor license has been issued where, in his or her sole and absolute
discretion, such action is necessary or advisable in order to: prevent the
endangerment of public safety; secure the continuation of public peace or
order; abate, prevent, or stop any imminent or actual public nuisance, criminal
activity or riotous behavior; or otherwise prevent or respond to a threat to
public safety or order.
   B.   The power to suspend the sale of alcohol or close licensed premises may
be exercised by the Liquor Commissioner, the County Sheriff, or the acting
County Sheriff in the absence of the County Sheriff. Any time any of these
authorized individuals exercises the authority to issue a temporary suspension
or closure order, any County employee may be utilized to circulate and
disseminate the emergency order.
   C.   All Licensees shall adhere to a closure order that is received by the
Licensee in any method of communication from the County, including but not
limited to: a telephone call from the County; written notice provided via mail
or personal delivery; verbal notice provided by any County employee providing
proper proof of identification: radio, television, newspaper or other public
communication medium, or any other form of emergency communication. A
suspension/closure order may be issued County-wide, may be issued on a
geographic basis (e.g., all licensed premises within a defined area of the
County), or on a Licensee by Licensee basis. The County shall use reasonable
efforts to make personal contact via telephone or via a visit to licensed
premises by a County employee, to notify Licensees of an emergency suspension
or closure. Within a reasonable time after the notification of emergency
suspension or closure, the County shall use reasonable efforts to notify
Licensees of the term or duration of the emergency suspension or closure order,
if such term is not announced at the start of the order.
   D.   At any time that an emergency suspension order is in effect, it shall
be unlawful and shall be a violation of the conditions of licensure for any
persons licensed by the County, or their servants or agents, to sell, give away
or permit to be distributed, served, or drawn, in or about the licensed
premises any liquors or alcoholic beverages. At any time that an emergency
closure order is in effect, it shall be unlawful and shall be a violation of
the conditions of licensure for any licensed premises to remain open for
business or to permit person other than the Licensee, owner of the premises, or
employees or agents of either to remain within the premises. (Ord. 14-007, 4-8-
2014)
2-2-6: PROCEDURE FOR SUSPENSION, REVOCATION AND IMPOSITION OF FINES:
   A.   Notice. With the exception of emergency closures as set forth by this
chapter. Before a licensee may have his or her license suspended or revoked, or
before a fine may be levied against the licensee, the Liquor Control Commission
shall give the licensee written notice of the violation at least three (3) days
prior to the hearing on the violation. Such written notice shall be deemed
served by mailing a notice of the violation, including the date and time of the
hearing, to the licensee via pre-paid United States mail to the address listed
by the licensee on his or her application for a Retail Liquor Dealer's License.
   B.   Hearing. A hearing shall be conducted at a time and place directed by
the Liquor Control Commission. The Liquor Control Commissioner may appoint a
hearing officer to take testimony at the hearing. The licensee shall have the
opportunity to appear and defend and to cross-examine all witnesses and to
present testimony in his or her own defense. Such hearing shall be informal in
nature and the rules of evidence as followed by the Courts of Illinois shall
not be applicable. All such hearings shall be open to the public and the
testimony shall be transcribed by a certified short hand reporter.
   C.   Disposition. The Liquor Control Commissioner shall, if they determine
after such hearing that the license should be revoked or suspended, or that the
licensee should be fined, state the reason or reasons for such detennination in
a written order, and indicate either the amount of the fine and when it must be
paid, the period of suspension, or that the license has been revoked. The
Liquor Control Commissioner shall serve a copy of such order within five (5)
days after the hearing upon the licensee. In making, his or her determination
to reprimand, fine, or suspend or revoke, or in determining the amount of a
fine imposed or the length of a suspension imposed, the Liquor Commissioner may
consider any of the following: 1) the nature of the violation;_2) past
violations of the Licensee occurring within the immediately preceding three (3)
year period; 3) past action of the Liquor Commissioner in comparable
situations; 4) the factual situation and circumstances surrounding the
violation as presented at the public hearing; and 5) such other information as
the Liquor Commissioner shall deem relevant.
   D.   Licensee's Right to Appeal Decision of Liquor Control Commission. A
licensee shall have the right to appeal a decision of the Liquor Control
Commission, by filing an appeal with the Illinois Liquor Control Commission
within twenty (20) days after receipt of the Liquor Control Commission's order.
The appeal shall be limited to a review of the official record of the
proceedings of the Liquor Control Commission and the transcript of the
testimony given at the hearing. If an appeal is filed, the Liquor Control
Commissioner shall file a certified copy of the official record of the
proceedings with the Illinois Liquor Control Commission after the appellant
licensee pays the cost of the preparation of the official record.
   E.   Agreed Violation Process. Agreed Violation Process: ln cases where: 1)
the Liquor Commissioner and the Licensee agree and stipulate to the facts of a
given violation, and agree that a violation has occurred; 2) the Liquor
Commissioner and the Licensee agree that use of the Agreed Violation Process is
appropriate, and are willing to execute a stipulation, settlement and waiver
agreement so indicating; 3) the violation(s) in question are not sever, and do
not evidence a pattern of repeat violations by a Licensee; and 4) the Licensee
is willing to accept the penalties recommended by the Liquor Commissioner and
waive the right to a hearing, to avoid the cost and expense thereof, the Liquor
Commissioner and Licensee may elect to utilize a written agreement to resolve a
proposed violation. Such agreement shall waive the Licensee’s a right to a
hearing and shall impose a mutually acceptable fine and/or suspension or
revocation of a license, and such other terms as the Liquor Commissioner and
Licensee shall agree upon. Either party shall be free to reject the Agreed
Violation Process and proceed to a formal hearing. The period of time when the
parties are investigating the potential use of the Agreed Violation Process
shall toll any Liquor Commissioner timelines for initiating a hearing or filing
charges against the Licensee. (Ord. 14-007, 4-8-2014)
2-2-7: MINORS:
   A.   Unlawful Acts.
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty one (21) years of
age to purchase, obtain or possess any alcoholic liquor in any premises that
holds a Retail Liquor Dealer's License.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty one (21) years of
age to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic liquor in any premises that holds a Retail Liquor Dealer's License.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty one (21) years of
age to attend any bar, to pour, draw or mix any alcoholic liquor, or otherwise
act as a bartender in any premises that holds a Retail Liquor Dealer's License.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty one (21) years of
age to sell, give or deliver packaged alcoholic liquor to any person in any
premises that holds a Retail Liquor Dealer's License.
      5.   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a Retail Liquor Dealer's
License, or his or her agent, servant or employee to permit any person under
twenty one (21) years of age to remain in any room where alcoholic liquor is
sold or consumed, except when such person is accompanied by a parent or
guardian, or is an employee of the licensee and is performing his or her duties
as an employee, or unless the licensed premises derives its principal income
from the sale or service of commodities other than alcoholic liquor.
      6.   It shall be unlawful to sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to
any person under twenty one (21) years of age on any premises that holds a
Retail Liquor Dealer's License.
   B.   Rights of Licensees. If a licensee, his or her agents or employees
believe or have reason to believe that a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor
is prohibited because the prospective recipient is a minor, he or she shall,
before making such sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of
positive identification containing proof of age. If a licensee, his or her
agents or employees are not satisfied with the identification provided, he or
she may deny serving alcoholic liquors to the prospective recipient. (Ord. 14-
007, 4-8-2014)
2-2-8: ACTS PROHIBITED ON LICENSED PREMISES; OTHER RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Conduct. The following types of conduct are prohibited on
premises that have obtained a Retail Liquor Dealer's License:
      1.   The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts that are prohibited by law.
      2.   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the
breast, buttocks, anus or genitals.
      3.   The actual or simulated displaying of the breast, pubic hair, anus
or genitals.
      4.   The permitting by a licensee of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to public view any portion of his or her genitals
or anus.
      5.   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts where a live
performance of the same is prohibited by the regulations listed above.
      6.   Conducting the sale or display on live models of lingerie, swimsuits
or male or female undergarments.
      7.   The performance of male or female strippers, whether actual or
simulated.
   B.   Closing Hours. It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for retail sale,
or give away or consume any alcoholic liquor in any premises that has obtained
a Retail Liquor Dealer's License between the hours of one o’clock (1:00) a.m.
and six o’clock (6:00) a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday
of each week. It shall further be unlawful to sell or offer for sale or consume
or give away any alcoholic liquor in any premises that has obtained a Retail
Liquor Dealer's License between the hours of two o’clock (2:00) a.m. and six
o’clock (6:00) a.m. on Saturday and Sunday of each week. It shall be unlawful
to keep open for business or to admit the public to any premises on which
alcoholic liquor is available for retail sale during the hours or days during
which the sale of such liquor is prohibited. Restaurants, clubs and hotels may
be kept open during such hours, however, no alcoholic liquor may be sold to be
consumed on or off the premises by the public during such hours. In the event
New Year's Eve occurs on a weekday, closing hours shall be the same as the
Saturday and Sunday closing provisions.
   C.   View from the Street. Premises that are licensed to sell alcoholic
liquor under a Class 'A', Class 'C' or Class 'E' license, excluding
restaurants, hotels and clubs, are not permitted to have screens, blinds,
curtains, partitions or any other article upon the windows, doors or inside the
premises, which prevent a clear and full view of the entire premises from the
street, road and sidewalk at all times. All licensees must have a clear glass,
unobstructed window on the premises that affords a view of the establishment
from the outside. All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the
premises shall be continuously lighted during business hours by natural light
or artificial white light so that all parts of the interior of the premises
shall be clearly visible. In order to enforce this provision the Liquor Control
Commission or Commissioner shall have the right to require a licensee or
applicant to file plans, drawings and photographs showing the clearance of the
view as required above.
   D.   Sanitary Conditions. All premises that hold a Retail Liquor Dealer's
License shall be kept in a clean and sanitary manner.
   E.   Employees. It shall be unlawful to employ any person who is affected
with, or who is the carrier of, any contagious or infectious disease in or
about any premises that holds a Retail Liquor Dealer's License. (Ord. 14-007,
4-8-2014)
2-2-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   Fines. Any person or licensee that violates any provision of this
Ordinance shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) and not more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. Each day that the activity,
which gave rise to the original fine, continues is a separate violation. The
maximum fine that may be levied against any licensee, during the period of the
license, shall not exceed fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00).
   B.   Suspension. A licensee that violates any provision of this chapter may
be subject to suspension of his or her Retail Liquor Dealer's License upon
determination by the Liquor Control Commission. The Liquor Control Commission
may not suspend a violator's license for more than thirty (30) days. The
suspension period of a Retail Liquor Dealer's License, as determined by the
Liquor Control Commission during a hearing, starts after notice of the
suspension has been sent via United States Mail to the address listed by the
licensee on his or her application for a license hereunder.
   C.   Revocation. A licensee that violates any provision of this chapter may
be subject to revocation of his or her Retail Liquor Dealer's License upon
determination by the Liquor Control Commission. (Ord. 14-007, 4-8-2014)
2-2-10: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope of Ordinance. The provisions of this chapter apply to premises in
the territory which lies within the corporate limits of Grundy County and
outside the corporate limits of any city, village or town within Grundy County.
   B.   Separate and Distinct Provisions. Each provision of this chapter shall
be considered separate and distinct, and the unconstitutionality or invalidity
of any provisions herein shall not be deemed to affect or impair the validity
of the remaining provisions.
   C.   Conflicting Ordinances. All ordinances or parts of ordinances
previously passed by the Grundy County Board that are in conflict with this
ordinance are hereby repealed. (Ord. 14-007, 4-8-2014)
2-2-11: LIQUOR LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE:
 
Class A. One Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00)
         With a Beer Garden; One Thousand Eight Hundred Dollars ($1,800.00)
Class B. Nine Hundred Dollars ($900.00)
         With a Beer Garden; One Thousand Two Hundred Dollars ($1,200.00)
Class C. Nine Hundred Dollars ($900.00)
         With a Beer Garden; One Thousand Two Hundred Dollars ($1,200.00)
Class D. One Thousand Two Hundred Dollars ($1,200.00)
Class E. Nine Hundred Dollars ($900.00)
         With a Beer Garden; One Thousand Two Hundred Dollars ($1,200.00)
Class F. 'Special Event License' Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00)
         With a Beer Garden; Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00)
(Ord. 14-007, 4-8-2014)
 
CHAPTER 3
REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX
SECTION:
2-3-1: Tax Imposed; Amount
2-3-2: Payment Of Tax Required; Indication Of Payment
2-3-3: Declaration Of Transfer Filed
2-3-4: Exemptions From Tax
2-3-5: Real Estate Transfer Tax Fund
2-3-6: Tax Is Additional
2-3-1: TAX IMPOSED; AMOUNT:
A tax is imposed on the privilege of transferring title to real estate, as
represented by the deed that is filed for recordation, at the rate of twenty
five cents ($0.25) for each five hundred dollars ($500.00) of value or fraction
thereof stated in the declaration provided for in this section. If, however,
the real estate is transferred subject to a mortgage, the amount of the
mortgage remaining outstanding at the time of transfer shall not be included in
the basis of computing the tax. (Ord., eff. 7-1-1979)
2-3-2: PAYMENT OF TAX REQUIRED; INDICATION OF PAYMENT:
   A.   Except as provided in section
2-3-4 of this chapter, no deed or trust document shall be accepted for filing
by the recorder of deeds unless the tax imposed by section
2-3-1 of this chapter has been paid.
   B.   The recorder of deeds may affix stamps whose design, denomination and
form shall be prescribed by the recorder of deeds (to every deed or trust
document which represents a transfer subject to the tax imposed by section
2-3-1 of this chapter). In lieu of the stamps described herein, the recorder of
deeds may use and affix any other writing or other indication that the tax
imposed by section
2-3-1 of this chapter has been paid. (Ord., eff. 7-1-1979)
2-3-3: DECLARATION OF TRANSFER FILED:
At such time as the tax levied by this chapter is paid, there shall be filed
with the recorder of deeds a fully executed and completed copy of the "Real
Estate Transfer Declaration" required by provisions of 35 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 200/31-25, as amended. (Ord., eff. 7-1-1979; amd. 2004 Code)
2-3-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
The following deeds or trust documents shall be exempt from the provisions of
this chapter except as hereinafter provided:
   A.   Deeds representing real estate transfers made before January 1, 1968,
but recorded after that date, and trust documents executed before January 1,
1986, but recorded after that date.
   B.   Deeds to or trust documents relating to: 1) property acquired by any
governmental body or from any governmental body; 2) property interests
transferred between governmental bodies; or 3) property acquired by or from any
corporation, society, association, foundation or institution organized and
operated exclusively for charitable, religious or educational purposes.
However, deeds or trust documents, other than those in which the administrator
of veterans' affairs of the United States is the grantee pursuant to a
foreclosure proceeding, shall not be exempt from filing the declaration.
   C.   Deeds or trust documents which secure debts or other obligation.
   D.   Deeds or trust documents which, without additional consideration,
confirm, correct, modify, or supplement a deed or trust document previously
recorded.
   E.   Deeds or trust documents where the actual consideration is less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   F.   Tax deeds.
   G.   Deeds or trust documents that release property that is security for a
debt or other obligation.
   H.   Deeds of partition.
   I.   Deeds or trust documents made pursuant to mergers, consolidations or
transfers or sales of substantially all of the assets of corporations under
plans of reorganization under the federal internal revenue code, 26 USCA
section 1 et seq., or title 11 of the federal bankruptcy act, 11 USCA section
101 et seq.
   J.   Deeds or trust documents made by a subsidiary corporation to its parent
corporation for no consideration other than the cancellation or surrender of
the subsidiary's stock.
   K.   Deeds where there is an actual exchange of real estate, and trust
documents when there is an actual exchange of beneficial interests except, that
money difference or money's worth paid from one to the other is not be exempt
from the tax. These deeds or trust documents, however, shall not be exempt from
filing the declaration.
   L.   Deeds issued to a holder of a mortgage, as defined in 735 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/15-103, pursuant to a mortgage foreclosure proceeding or
pursuant to a transfer in lieu of foreclosure.
   M.   A deed or trust document related to the purchase of a principal
residence by a participant in the program authorized by the home ownership made
easy act 1 ; except, that those deeds and trust documents shall not be exempt
from filing the declaration.
   N.   Any future exemption enacted by the state. (Ord., eff. 7-1-1979; amd.
2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 310 ILCS 55/1 et seq.
2-3-5: REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX FUND:
   A.   All proceeds resulting from the collection of the tax imposed by this
chapter shall be deposited into a fund to be established by the recorder, which
fund shall be known as the "Real Estate Transfer Tax Fund". The recorder shall
report quarterly to the county board as to all receipts into and disbursements
from this fund.
   B.   The recorder may use the real estate transfer tax fund to purchase such
tax stamps as the state requires to fulfill the requirements of the state real
estate transfer tax act 1 ; however, the recorder shall semiannually deposit
the excess of the monies in the fund over her reasonable needs to fulfill the
state requirements with the county treasurer who shall credit them to the
county general fund. (Ord., eff. 7-1-1979)
 
Notes
1 2. 35 ILCS 200/31-1 et seq.
2-3-6: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
The tax herein imposed shall be in addition to all other occupation or
privilege taxes imposed by the state or by any municipal corporation or
political subdivision thereof. (Ord., eff. 7-1-1979)
CHAPTER 4
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Permit
2-4-2: Application
2-4-3: Times Permitted For Solicitation
2-4-4: Duration Of Permit
2-4-5: Exhibition Of Permit
2-4-6: Revocation Of Permit
2-4-7: Exemptions
2-4-8: Penalty
2-4-1: PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to go in or upon any
private residence, farm or premises in the area of the county of Grundy outside
of the corporate limits of any city or village in said county for the purpose
of hawking, peddling, soliciting or vending from the occupants thereof, or to
canvass for orders or goods, wares, merchandise or services of any character or
description, or for the purpose of offering to give or to furnish or giving or
furnishing any goods, wares, merchandise or services to any such occupants to
induce, or invite such orders, without having first applied for and received
from the Grundy County clerk a solicitor's permit. Failure by a solicitor to
obtain a Grundy County solicitor's permit is a violation of this chapter. (Ord.
09-003, 3-10-2009)
2-4-2: APPLICATION:
Any person desiring to secure a solicitor's permit shall apply in writing over
his or her signature with the Grundy County clerk on forms provided by the
county of Grundy and such application shall state:
   A.   The name, address, phone number(s) and e-mail address of the applicant;
   B.   The name, address, phone number(s) and e-mail address of the person,
firm or corporation, by whom the applicant is employed;
   C.   The length of service of such applicant with such employer;
   D.   The place of residence and nature of employment of the applicant during
the last preceding year;
   E.   The nature and/or character of the goods, wares, merchandise, or
services to be offered by the applicant;
   F.   The personal description and complete identification of the applicant.
Such application shall be accompanied by credentials and other evidence that
demonstrates that a lawful and legitimate business, commercial, professional or
service function is being pursued by the applicant. (Ord. 09-003, 3-10-2009)
2-4-3: TIMES PERMITTED FOR SOLICITATION:
Any and all solicitation by the applicant shall be conducted only during the
hours between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. Monday
through Friday. Solicitation at any other time shall be a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 09-003, 3-10-2009)
2-4-4: DURATION OF PERMIT:
Each permit shall be issued for a two (2) week period and shall expire at the
end of the two (2) week period. The permit may be renewed at the discretion of
the county of Grundy. Solicitation with an expired permit shall be considered a
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 09-003, 3-10-2009)
2-4-5: EXHIBITION OF PERMIT:
The county solicitor's permit shall be carried by the applicant at all times
when soliciting or canvassing in the unincorporated portions of Grundy County
and shall be shown by the applicant whenever he or she is requested to do so by
any police officer or by any person being solicited by the applicant. Failure
to carry the required solicitor's permit or to show said permit is a violation
of this chapter. (Ord. 09-003, 3-10-2009)
2-4-6: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Any solicitor's permit may be revoked by the Grundy County clerk or the clerk's
designee for violation by the holder thereof of any of the provisions of this
chapter or of any provisions of other ordinances or resolutions of the county
of Grundy or of any state of Illinois law or federal law. Notice of said
revocation shall be mailed to the address provided on the application. (Ord.
09-003, 3-10-2009)
2-4-7: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any public body, not for profit corporation or
person running for election or their representative. (Ord. 09-003, 3-10-2009)
2-4-8: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00), for each offense and a separate offense shall be
deemed to be committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 09-003, 3-10-2009)
CHAPTER 5
CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
2-5-1: Tax Imposed
2-5-2: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
2-5-3: Enforcement
2-5-1: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail, in the incorporated areas of Grundy
County, Illinois, at the rate of 0.75% of gross receipts from those sales made
in the course of that business. (Ord. 2019-021, - -)
2-5-2: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
The tax imposed by this chapter shall be remitted by such retailer to the
Illinois Department of Revenue. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to or
as authorized by this chapter and any such tax collected by such retailer to
the state. Retailers may reimburse themselves for their sellers’ tax liability
hereunder by separately stating that tax as an additional charge, which charge
may be stated in combination, in a single amount, with any state tax that
sellers are required to collect. (Ord. 2019-021, - -)
2-5-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the department. The
department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 2019-021, - -)
TITLE 3
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
FOOD REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-1A-1: State And Federal Regulations Adopted
3-1A-2: Permit Requirements
3-1A-3: Examination And Condemnation Of Food
3-1A-4: Dates On Food
3-1A-5: Floor Coverings
3-1A-6: Plan Submission And Approval
3-1A-7: Inspections And Access To Establishments
3-1A-8: Discontinued Operations
3-1A-9: Service Of Notices
3-1A-10: Hearings
3-1A-11: Equipment
3-1A-12: Violations; Penalties
3-1A-1: STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The Illinois Department of Public Health "Illinois Food Code Part 750" and
chapter 8 and the associated annex 1 "Compliance and Enforcement" of the United
States Food and Drug Administration's Food Code 2013 and any subsequent
revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference. (Ord. 2018-029, 11-13-2018,
eff. 1-1-2019)
3-1A-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food service
establishment within Grundy County in the State of Illinois, who does not
possess a valid permit issued by the Grundy County Health Department. Only a
person who complies with the requirements of this article shall be entitled to
receive or retain such a permit.
   B.   Application For Permit: Any person desiring to operate a food service
establishment shall make written application for a permit on forms provided by
the County Health Department. Such application shall include the name and
address of each applicant, the location and type of the proposed food service
establishment, and contact information for the applicant.
   C.   Food Facility Fees: Required fees are determined by resolution of the
Grundy County Board of Health and the Grundy County Board. A facility's health
permit shall not be renewed until all fees or other money owed to the Grundy
County Health Department is received.
   D.   Inspections: Prior to approval of an application for a permit, the
County Health Department shall inspect the proposed food service establishment
to determine compliance with the requirements of this article.
   E.   Issuance Of Permit: The County Health Department shall issue a permit
to the applicant if the inspection reveals that the proposed food service
establishment complies with the requirements of this article. Permits are non-
transferable.
   F.   Suspension And Revocation Of Permit:
      1.   The County Health Department may, without warning, notice, or
hearing, suspend any permit to operate a food service establishment if the
holder of the permit does not comply with the requirements of this article, or
if the operation of the food service establishment otherwise constitutes a
substantial hazard to public health. Suspension is effective upon service of
the notice. When a permit is suspended, food service operations shall
immediately cease. Whenever a permit is suspended, the holder of the permit
shall be afforded an opportunity for hearing within twenty (20) days of receipt
of a request for hearing.
      2.   The County Health Department may, after providing opportunity for
hearing, revoke a permit for serious or repeated violations of any of the
requirements of this article or for interference with the County Health
Department in the performance of duty.
      3.   Whenever a permit is suspended, the holder of the permit or the
person in charge shall be notified in writing that the permit is, upon service
of the notice, immediately suspended and that an opportunity for hearing will
be provided if a written request for hearing is filed with the County Health
Department by the holder of the permit within ten (10) days. If no written
request for hearing is filed within ten (10) days, the suspension is sustained.
The County Health Department may end the suspension at any time if reasons for
suspension no longer exist.
      4.   Prior to revocation, the County Health Department shall notify, in
writing, the holder of the permit, or the person in charge, of the specific
reason(s) for which the permit is to be revoked and that the permit shall be
revoked at the end of the ten (10) days following service of such notice unless
a written request for hearing is filed with the County Health Department by the
holder of the permit within such ten (10) day period. If no request for hearing
is filed within the ten (10) day period, the revocation of the permit becomes
final.
   G.   Expiration Of Permit And Annual Permit Fee:
      1.   Permits issued by the County Health Department shall expire annually
on March 1, unless otherwise noted on the permit. Fees for renewing permits
issued by the County Health Department shall be due annually on January 31.
      2.   Seasonal permits shall be valid from May 1 until October 31 of the
same calendar year. The fee for a seasonal permit shall be due fourteen (14)
calendar days prior to the reopening of the seasonal facility.
      3.   Temporary food establishment permits shall be valid from the day of
issuance until the conclusion of the event or for fourteen (14) consecutive
days, whichever is shorter.
   H.   New Food Establishment Permit Application: A new food establishment
plan review and/or permit application shall be received in our office thirty
(30) calendars days before the date planned for opening. Any application
received less than thirty (30) days prior to opening will be subject to a
twenty five percent (25%) late fee. (Ord. 2018-029, 11-13-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
3-1A-3: EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF FOOD:
   A.   Frequency Of Examination: Food may be examined or sampled by the County
Health Department as often as necessary for enforcement of this article.
   B.   Notice Of Violation; Hold Order:
      1.   The County Health Department may, upon written notice to the owner
or person in charge, specifying with particularity the reasons, place a hold
order on any food which it believes is in violation of this article.
      2.   The County Health Department shall tag, label, or otherwise identify
any food subject to the hold order.
      3.   No food subject to a hold order shall be used, served, or moved from
the establishment.
      4.   The County Health Department shall permit storage of the food under
conditions specified in the hold order, unless storage is not possible without
risk to the public health, in which case, immediate destruction shall be
ordered and accomplished.
      5.   The hold order shall state that a request for hearing may be filed
within ten (10) days and that if no hearing is requested, the food shall be
destroyed.
      6.   If a request for hearing is received, the hearing shall be held
within twenty (20) days after receipt of the request.
      7.   On the basis of evidence produced at that hearing, the hold order
may be vacated or the owner or person in charge of the food may be directed by
written order to denature or destroy such food or to bring it into compliance
with the provisions of this article. (Ord. 2018-029, 11-13-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
3-1A-4: DATES ON FOOD:
No dates on foods shall be covered or obscured to prevent the date from being
read. (Ord. 2018-029, 11-13-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
3-1A-5: FLOOR COVERINGS:
Approved floor covering shall be located and maintained in all food
preparation, food storage, ware washing, janitorial, restroom, and dressing
room areas. In newly constructed or extensively remodeled establishments, or
when the floor or floor covering of an existing facility becomes in disrepair,
the facility shall provide a floor covering constructed of commercial grade
vinyl composition tile, quarry tile, ceramic tile or other material approved by
the County Health Department. Sanitary coved base consisting of the same
material as the floor covering shall be provided at the juncture of the wall
and floor. (Ord. 2018-029, 11-13-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
3-1A-6: PLAN SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL:
Please refer to part 8-2 of the United States Food and Drug Administration's
2013 Food Code (and any subsequent revisions) for details regarding plan review
submission and approval for a food service establishment. (Ord. 2018-029, 11-
13-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
3-1A-7: INSPECTIONS AND ACCESS TO ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Frequency Of Inspections: The frequency of inspections shall be
determined by risk assessment of the facility, number and type of health
violations, progress in correcting health violations and other factors that are
appropriate and as required by the Illinois Department of Public Health Local
Health Protection Grant Rules. Additional inspections of the food service
establishment shall be performed as often as necessary for the enforcement of
this article.
   B.   Entry Powers: Representatives of the County Health Department, after
proper identification, shall be permitted to enter any food service
establishment at any reasonable time for the purpose of making inspections to
determine compliance with this article. The representatives shall be permitted
to examine the records of the establishment to obtain information pertaining to
food and supplies purchased, received, or used.
   C.   Report Of Inspections: Whenever an inspection of a food service
establishment is made, the findings shall be recorded on the approved
inspection report. Inspectional remarks shall be written to reference, by
section number, the section violated and shall state the correction to be made.
A copy of the completed inspection report form shall be furnished to the person
in charge of the establishment at the conclusion of the inspection, or as soon
as possible thereafter. The completed inspection report form is a public
document that shall be made available for public disclosure to any person who
requests it according to law.
   D.   Correction And Violations: The completed inspection report shall
specify a reasonable period of time for the correction of violations found, and
correction of the violations shall be accomplished within the period specified,
in accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   All priority item violations shall be corrected immediately or no
longer than seventy two (72) hours after the inspection.
      2.   All priority foundation items shall be corrected immediately or no
more than ten (10) calendar days after the inspection.
      3.   All core items shall be corrected by a date and time agreed to or
specified by the regulatory authority but no later than the next routine
inspection. The regulatory authority may approve a compliance schedule that
extends beyond the time limits specified (for core items only) if a written
schedule of compliance is submitted by the establishment and no health hazards
exist or will result from allowing an extended schedule for compliance.
      4.   The inspection report shall state that failure to comply with any
time limits for corrections may result in a cessation of food service
operations and/or an assessment of a re-inspection fee. An opportunity for
hearing on the inspection findings or the time limitations, or both, will be
provided if a written request is filed with the County Health Department within
ten (10) days following cessations of operations or inspection.
   E.   Imminent Health Hazard: A food establishment shall immediately
discontinue operations and notify the Health Department if an imminent health
hazard may exist because of an emergency such as a fire, flood, extended
interruption of electrical or water service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous
or toxic materials, onset of an apparent foodborne illness outbreak, gross
insanitary occurrence or condition, or other circumstance that may endanger the
public. Operations need not be discontinued in an area of an establishment that
is unaffected by the imminent health hazard. Operations shall not be resumed
until authorized by the County Health Department. (Ord. 2018-029, 11-13-2018,
eff. 1-1-2019)
3-1A-8: DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS:
Whenever a food service establishment is required to cease operations, it shall
not resume operations until it is shown on the re-inspection that conditions
responsible for the order to cease operations no longer exist. Opportunity for
re-inspection shall be offered within reasonable time. (Ord. 2018-029, 11-13-
2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
3-1A-9: SERVICE OF NOTICES:
A notice provided for in this article is properly served when it is delivered
to the holder of the permit, or the person in charge, or when it is sent by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known
address of the holder of the permit. A copy of the notice shall be filed in the
records of the County Health Department. (Ord. 2018-029, 11-13-2018, eff. 1-1-
2019)
3-1A-10: HEARINGS:
The hearings provided for in this article shall be conducted by the County
Health Department at a time and place designated by said department. Any oral
testimony given at a hearing shall be reported verbatim, and the presiding
officer shall make provision for sufficient copies of the transcript. The
County Health Department shall make a final finding based upon the complete
hearing record and shall sustain, modify or rescind any notice or order
considered in the hearing. A written report of the hearing decision shall be
furnished to the holder of the permit by the County Health Department. (Ord.
2018-029, 11-13-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
3-1A-11: EQUIPMENT:
All new or replaced food processing, storage, display, or other equipment used
in the operation of a food service establishment shall bear the seal of
approval of the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) or equivalent sanitation
standard, and be approved by the County Health Department. (Ord. 2018-029, 11-
13-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
3-1A-12: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties: Any person who violates any of the
provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day upon which such violation occurs constitutes a
separate violation.
   B.   Injunctions: The County Health Department may seek injunctive and other
appropriate relief for violations of this article. (Ord. 2018-029, 11-13-2018,
eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 2
POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITIES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Introduction
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: County Approval Of Pollution Control Facilities
3-2-4: Pollution Control Facility Committee
3-2-5: Procedure For Filing An Application For Approval Of A Pollution Control
Facility
3-2-6: Hearings On Applications
3-2-7: Conduct Of Hearing
3-2-8: Procedure For Filing Written Comments To An Application For Site
Location Approval For A Pollution Control Facility
3-2-9: Decisions
3-2-10: Appeals
3-2-11: Severability Clause
3-2-1: INTRODUCTION:
The following rules and regulations relating to the form, contents, fees and
filing procedures for applications for the approval of sites for location of
new or expanded pollution control facilities in the unincorporated areas of
Grundy County, Illinois, are adopted, pursuant to the provisions of the
Illinois environmental protection act, section 39.2 1 . The document
"application for pollution control facility siting approval", attached to the
ordinance codified herein, provides a breakdown of the information mandated by
the county board when an applicant files for a new or expanded pollution
control facility and is a part of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-001, 1-14-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/39.2.
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ACT: The Illinois environmental protection act 1 , as amended from time to
time.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm or partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind proposing to obtain site location approval and IEPA
permits for a pollution control facility in unincorporated Grundy County, and
includes the owner of such site, the proposed operator, and any other party
with an interest in the site, such as a lessee, contract purchaser or land
trust beneficiary.
BOARD: The Illinois pollution control board.
COMMITTEE: The pollution control facility committee.
COUNTY: Grundy County, Illinois.
COUNTY BOARD: The Grundy County board.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Hazardous waste as defined in the "act".
IEPA: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
MIXED MUNICIPAL WASTE: Municipal waste generated by households and commercial
businesses that has not been separated for recycling or composting at the point
of generation.
MIXED MUNICIPAL WASTE COMPOSTING FACILITY: An entire mixed municipal waste
composting operation.
MIXED WASTE PROCESSING FACILITY: A transfer station where recyclables are
separated from mixed municipal waste.
MUNICIPAL WASTE INCINERATOR: The burning of municipal waste or fuel derived
therefrom in a combustion apparatus designed to burn municipal waste that may
produce electricity or steam as a byproduct.
ORGANIC WASTE: Food waste, landscape waste, wood waste, or other nonhazardous
carbonaceous waste that is collected and processed separately from the rest of
the municipal waste stream. Household hazardous waste is not an organic waste.
ORGANIC WASTE COMPOSTING FACILITY: An entire organic waste composting
operation.
POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY: As defined in the act. A pollution control facility
includes a new pollution control facility as defined by the act.
SANITARY LANDFILL: As defined in the act.
TRANSFER STATION: As defined in the act.
All other terms used in this chapter and defined in the act shall have the same
definitions and meanings as found in said act (including, but not limited to,
those terms defined in section 3, thereof 2 ). (Ord. 2014-001, 1-14-2014)
 
Notes
1 2. 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
2 1. 415 ILCS 5/3.
3-2-3: COUNTY APPROVAL OF POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITIES:
No site location approval for the development or construction of a new or
expanded pollution control facility in unincorporated Grundy County may be
granted by the county board unless an application is filed for approval of such
site and is submitted for consideration to said county board. (Ord. 2014-001,
1-14-2014)
3-2-4: POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY COMMITTEE:
   A.   A pollution control facility committee (hereafter referred to as the
committee) shall be established by the county board and shall consist of five
(5) members of the county board. The county board chair shall nominate members
to this committee. These appointments shall be made within forty (40) days of
receipt of an application for local siting approval.
   B.   The term of a committee member shall expire once final action on the
application is taken by the county board except where that committee member
becomes legally ineligible to serve on the county board.
   C.   During the course of the public hearing, at least one committee member
shall be present at each session.
   D.   The committee may appoint a hearing officer to serve during any public
hearing concerning an application for site location approval. The hearing
officer shall serve at the pleasure of the committee. Compensation for the
services of the hearing officer shall be agreed upon between the hearing
officer and the county before a hearing. If no hearing officer is appointed for
the public hearing, one member of the committee shall be chosen by the
committee members to preside over the public hearing and must attend any and
all public hearings conducted on the application. A committee member or hearing
officer (or any immediate family member of said committee member/hearing
officer) shall not have a conflict of interest in the property or affairs of
the applicant.
   E.   The committee shall set the date of the public hearing within forty
five (45) days of receipt of an application for local siting approval.
   F.   The county clerk shall notify the applicant of the date(s), location
and time(s) of the public hearing within sixty (60) days of receipt of an
application for local siting approval. (Ord. 2014-001, 1-14-2014)
3-2-5: PROCEDURE FOR FILING AN APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF A POLLUTION CONTROL
FACILITY:
   A.   Application Notice: It is the applicant's duty to comply with all
notice requirements set forth in the act. The applicant shall:
      1.   No later than fourteen (14) days prior to filing an application for
site location approval with the county clerk, cause written notice of such
application to be served either in person or by registered mail, return receipt
requested, on the owners of all property within the subject area not solely
owned by the applicant, and on the owners of all property within two hundred
fifty feet (250') in each direction of the lot line of the subject property,
said owners being such persons or entities which appear from the authentic tax
records of the county; provided that the number of all feet occupied by public
roads, streets, alleys and other public ways shall be excluded in computing the
two hundred fifty feet (250') requirement; provided further, that in no event
shall this requirement exceed four hundred feet (400'), including public
streets, alleys and other public ways.
      2.   The applicant shall serve such notice upon each member of the
general assembly from the legislative district in which the proposed facility
is to be located, and this notice shall also be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in Grundy County.
      3.   The applicant shall state in such notice the name and address of the
applicant, the location of the proposed site, the nature and size of the
development, the nature of the activity proposed, the probable life of the
proposed activity, the date when the request for site approval will be
submitted to the county clerk, and a description of the right of persons to
comment on such request and as otherwise required by 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/39.2.
      4.   The applicant shall include in the application proof of compliance
with all prefiling notice requirements.
   B.   Application Filing:
      1.   In order to request siting approval for a pollution control facility
in Grundy County, an applicant must file an application with the county clerk,
with a minimum of thirty five (35) copies of the application showing sufficient
details describing the proposed facility to demonstrate compliance with the act
and board regulations, including all site plans, engineering (including
calculations), exhibits and maps, and all additional documents, if any, to be
submitted to the IEPA as of the date of filing the application pertaining to
the proposed facility, except trade secrets as determined under section 7.1 of
the act. The copies must contain five (5) full sized copies of exhibits and
thirty (30) reduced copies of all exhibits. The applicant is encouraged to use
paper containing postconsumer recycled products. The applicant is required to
provide up to ten (10) additional copies of the application to the county upon
request. The applicant shall also provide a digital copy of the entire
application on compact disk. All such documents or other materials on file with
the county board shall be made available for public inspection at the county
clerk's office and may be copied upon payment of the actual cost of
reproduction.
The application must be complete, with answers provided for each question on
the application form. The application must contain consecutively numbered pages
and it must be accompanied by all site plans, exhibits, maps and documents
required by this chapter. The date that the applicant files a complete
application in proper form, together with the applicable filing fee deposit,
with the county clerk shall be considered the official filing date for all time
limit purposes. The application is not effective unless the application is in
strict compliance with this chapter and with the act. If upon review of the
application within fourteen (14) days of its submittal it is determined by the
county administrator, or his or her other designee, to be incomplete and not in
strict conformance with the aforesaid, the application is deemed not filed and
the filing fee (less county costs and expenses) shall be returned to the
applicant. A written explanation shall be provided to applicant stating the
reasons the application was deemed incomplete and/or not in strict conformance
with this chapter. An application that is filed that is deemed incomplete does
not count toward the filing time line. Only when an application is deemed
complete does the filing time line begin.
Within five (5) days upon receipt of the application, and payment of the
applicable filing fee deposit, the county clerk shall date stamp all the copies
and deliver two (2) copies to the county administrator, two (2) copies to the
county board chairman, one copy to each county board member, four (4) copies to
the land use department, one copy to the county's highway department, one copy
to the county's health department, and one copy to the state's attorney's
office. One copy of the complete application shall be retained by the county
clerk for public review, and five (5) copies will be retained and later
distributed to the committee.
Within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the application, the county clerk shall
notify the following in writing that the application has been received: all
municipalities within 1.5 miles of the proposed facility, township supervisor,
township highway commissioner, fire protection district, and district state
general assembly members that represent the area that the proposed facility
will be located. Members of the public shall be allowed to obtain a copy of
said application or any part thereof upon payment of the actual cost of
reproduction as outlined in the Illinois freedom of information act 1 .
      2.   In addition to the foregoing, the applicant shall deposit with the
county treasurer at the time of filing the application for site approval of a
pollution control facility, a filing fee in the amount listed below for the
type of proposed facility:
         a.   Two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) for a transfer
station that accepts nonhazardous waste; or
         b.   Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for a new or expanded
pollution control facility which includes transfer, treatment, storage and/or
disposal of hazardous material; or
         c.   Three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for any other new or
expanded pollution control facility, including, but not limited to, a mixed
municipal waste composting facility, mixed waste processing facility, organic
waste composting facility, municipal waste incinerator, or sanitary landfill
handling nonhazardous waste.
         d.   A notarized statement of the appropriate corporate official, or
official legal representative of the applicant, that the applicant will pay the
county of Grundy additional fees to reimburse the county of Grundy for monies
expended in excess of the filing fee in preparing for, processing, reviewing
and evaluating the application to its final resolution. The applicant shall
also agree in said notarized statement to stop all proceedings if an invoice
for reimbursement to the county of Grundy is not paid to the county treasurer
within ten (10) days after the invoice has been presented to the appropriate
corporate officer or official legal representative of the applicant. Said
notarized statement shall also contain a statement agreeing to waive the
statutorily imposed one hundred eighty (180) day decision deadline if the
proceedings are stopped for said reason or, in the alternative, to extend said
deadline by the number of days proceedings are stopped on account of the
failure of the applicant to pay said additional fees, plus an additional seven
(7) days.
         e.   The county board may reduce the application fee upon petition by
the applicant setting forth the reasons why a reduction is justified. The
county board must make a finding that the reduced fee will not jeopardize the
ability of the county to conduct a complete and impartial public hearing. The
applicant will be responsible for any costs above the reduced fee.
         f.   Appropriate methods for payment of filing fees include only the
following: wire transfer to a Grundy County bank account; cashier's check,
negotiable money order, or certified check with treasurer, Grundy County,
Illinois, listed as payee.
         g.   If the applicant elects to file an amended application for site
location approval for any pollution control facility in accordance with this
chapter, such filing shall be accompanied by payment of a supplemental filing
fee of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) in the same manner as listed above.
The applicable filing fee is intended to defray the reasonable and necessary
costs of processing the application, including, but not limited to: costs of
site inspection, clerical expenses, copying costs, space rental, hearing
officer compensation, court reporter expenses, transcription costs, public
notice expenses, staff review time, committee per diems, if any, state's
attorneys and county consultants (such as qualified professional engineers,
planners, appraisers, environmental counsel, etc.) including tests, exhibits,
and testimony, if any, provided by said consultants, and other relevant costs
incident to the consideration of an application, the costs incident to
preparing the record for appeal, and the cost of representing the county on
appeal in case of an appeal of a county board decision (the "county costs").
The applicant shall cooperate fully with the consultants and the technical
staff of the county in their review of the application, including providing
access to the site for study or testing, including, but not limited to,
geophysical testing, hydrogeological testing and all other portions of the
application.
If there are funds remaining in the filing fee deposit after payment of the
county costs, such amount shall be refunded to the applicant upon the final
resolution of the application process (including appeals to the Illinois
pollution control board, appellate court, Illinois supreme court, federal
courts, and administrative review in the courts, if any).
Any provision of this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, the county shall
accept no application for filing, unless said fee has been paid. (Ord. 2014-
001, 1-14-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
3-2-6: HEARINGS ON APPLICATIONS:
   A.   The committee shall hold at least one public hearing no sooner than
ninety (90) days but no later than one hundred twenty (120) days after the
official filing date (as set forth in subsection
3-2-5B of this chapter) for the pollution control facility site location
approval.
   B.   The applicant shall cause to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in Grundy County a notice of such public hearing not later than
fourteen (14) days prior to said hearing, and delivered by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to all members of the Illinois general assembly from
the district in which the proposed site is located, to the governing authority
of every municipality contiguous to the proposed site and to the IEPA. The
applicant shall file with the county clerk copies of each notice with proof of
service of such notice prior to the commencement of said public hearing.
   C.   All notices shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant requesting site location
approval;
      2.   The owner of the site, and in case ownership is in a land trust, the
names and addresses of the beneficiaries of said trust;
      3.   The legal description of the site;
      4.   The street address of the property, and if there is no street
address applicable to the property, a description of the site with reference to
the location, ownership or occupancy or in some other manner that will
reasonably identify the property to residents of the area;
      5.   The nature and size of the proposed development;
      6.   The nature and probable life of the proposed activity;
      7.   The date when the request for site approval will be submitted; and
      8.   A statement that the application is available to the public in the
office of the county clerk, a description of the right of persons to comment on
such request and that copies of the application are available upon payment of
actual costs of reproduction.
   D.   The public hearing shall develop a record sufficient to form the basis
of appeal of the decision in accordance with section 40.1 of the act. During
the course of the public hearing, the committee shall receive testimony from
the applicant and witnesses whom the applicant may call in support of the
application, any county witnesses, any objectors, and any other witnesses
having relevant information, and shall recommend approval only if the proposed
facility meets the applicable siting criteria (or such amended criteria as may
be set forth from time to time in the act 1 ).
   E.   Members or representatives of the governing authority of a municipality
contiguous to the proposed site may participate in the public hearing.
   F.   Verbal recording shall be made of the public hearing and a written
verbatim transcript prepared by a certified court reporter or a certified
shorthand reporter. Said transcripts shall be made available at cost upon
request. The applicant shall provide for sufficient numbers of written
transcripts for all county board members, the county administrator and the land
use department, waste services division, which will be distributed through the
county clerk.
   G.   The hearing officer (or the committee member who is presiding over the
proceedings if no hearing officer was appointed) shall preside at the public
hearing and shall make any decisions concerning the admission of evidence and
the manner in which the hearing is conducted subject to this chapter. He or she
shall make all rulings and decisions in accordance with fundamental fairness.
No ruling concerning admissibility of evidence or procedural issues at the
public hearing shall be appealable to the county board. Issues of jurisdiction
shall be determined by the county board. Upon request by the committee the
hearing officer may be required to draft a posthearing report and
recommendation.
   H.   The testimonial evidence introduced by the applicant may not exceed the
scope of the application. Such oral testimony may only explain and clarify the
application, not expand or amend the application.
   I.   All persons desiring to be participants in the hearing, including
members of the public, must submit written notification of said intent to the
county clerk by the close of the third business day preceding the first day of
the public hearing or register with the hearing officer by the close of the
third business day preceding the hearing. If the hearing should continue beyond
one session, no additional parties shall be allowed to testify or cross
examine. Any person so appearing at such public hearing shall have the right to
present testimony and witnesses. Any such person shall have the right to be
represented by an attorney at said public hearing. Opportunity for any persons
appearing at said public hearing to cross examine any witness may be reasonably
limited in time and duration by the hearing officer, to assure completion of
the hearings in accordance with the deadlines of the act. The hearing officer
may propound questions to any witness or to the applicant to clarify the record
established by the participants at the hearing or to bring out relevant
information. The county shall be deemed a participant and a party to all
proceedings.
   J.   Any exhibits that a participant, other than the applicant, anticipates
using during the public hearing shall be submitted to the county at least one
day prior to its anticipated use. All participants shall submit at least thirty
five (35) copies of all exhibits.
Members of the public who participate in the public comment time held prior to
the public hearing shall submit any exhibits they expect to use to the county
prior to the time designated for the public to speak. Thirty five (35) copies
of all such exhibits shall be submitted. The applicant shall be provided one
copy of all the exhibits to be used by a participant.
Any additional exhibits to be used by the applicant during the public hearing
and not a part of the application shall be submitted at least twenty four (24)
hours prior to the commencement of the public hearing. At least thirty five
(35) copies of all additional exhibits shall be submitted. Any additional
exhibit used by the applicant, that significantly changes information provided
with the application, or provides information not submitted as part of the
application, shall be considered an amendment to the application and all
sections of this chapter pertaining to amendments shall take effect.
The time limits for submission of evidence may be waived by the member of the
committee presiding over the hearing or the hearing officer if he/she
determines that the participant could not reasonably have anticipated the use
of said exhibit at the time that submission was due.
   K.   The applicant and the county's counsel shall be allowed to cross
examine witnesses by right, subject to such reasonable limitation as may be set
by the hearing officer. Cross examination by the county shall not be limited to
matters contained in the application. Parties represented by attorneys may be
allowed to cross examine in the discretion of the hearing officer. Other
persons shall be allowed to submit questions to the hearing officer, who shall
exercise discretion in the manner in which such questions are to be posed to
witnesses. Sufficient examination of witnesses is to be allowed so as to
provide for fundamental fairness.
   L.   Testimony may include the use of prepared written statements and
exhibits. If testimony is by prepared written statement, copies of such
prepared written statements shall be made available at least three (3) business
days in advance of such testimony being given and at any subsequent hearings.
All prepared written statements shall be directed to the county clerk. All
witnesses shall be subject to reasonable examination as follows: direct, cross
examination, redirect, and recross. County clerk shall forward all copies of
prepared written statements to applicant to all county board members, the
county administrator and the land use department, waste services division.
   M.   The hearing officer may exercise discretion to allow public comment at
each hearing or may set a time for public comment. (Ord. 2014-001, 1-14-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 39.2(a).
3-2-7: CONDUCT OF HEARING:
   A.   The applicant for siting approval shall have the burden of proof and
the burden of going forward with the evidence as to the suitability of the site
location for the proposed use.
   B.   At the hearing, the applicant may appear on his/her own behalf, or be
represented by counsel or agent.
   C.   The hearing officer shall call the hearing to order and shall allow the
applicant and the county or their counsel or agent, to make an opening
statement. The hearing officer may allow objectors or their counsel to make an
opening statement.
   D.   The committee shall then hear testimony from the applicant and/or any
witnesses the applicant may wish to call. Upon the close of the applicant's
testimony, any other parties may offer any witnesses and evidence they may wish
to present. These other parties may or may not be represented by counsel. Upon
the close of the applicant's and other parties' testimony and evidence, the
county may present any witnesses and evidence it may wish to present, unless
the county is the applicant, in which case it shall proceed as set out above.
The hearing officer shall decide the order of presentation of testimony subject
to these rules.
   E.   All witnesses shall testify under oath. Testimony may include the use
of exhibits. All witnesses shall be subject to reasonable examination as
follows: direct, cross, redirect, recross, etc. After all parties have
presented testimony, reasonable rebuttal, etc., may be allowed at the
discretion of the hearing officer.
   F.   The hearing officer may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, incompetent or
unduly repetitious testimony or other evidence. The hearing officer shall rule
on all questions relating to the admissibility of evidence. These rulings shall
not be appealable to the county board.
   G.   The hearing officer shall make all rulings in accordance with
fundamental fairness and statutory and constitutional requirements. The hearing
officer may be requested to prepare a statement of findings at the conclusion
of the public hearing and following the submittal of additional comments for
the thirty (30) day period following the public hearing.
   H.   1. At any time prior to completion by the applicant of the presentation
of the applicant's factual evidence and an opportunity for cross questioning by
the county and any participants, the applicant may file not more than one
amended application upon payment of additional fees pursuant to subsection
3-2-5B2f of this chapter. Provided, however, that the time limitation for final
action set forth in section 39.2(e) of the act, as amended, and subsection
3-2-9H of this chapter, shall be extended for an additional period of ninety
(90) days.
      2.   Within seven (7) days of the filing of the amendment(s), the
chairman of the committee shall notify the applicant of the date of the public
hearing.
      3.   An applicant may not file a request for local siting approval that
is substantially the same as a request that was denied, pursuant to a finding
against the applicant under any of criteria (1) through (9) of section 39.2(a)
of the act, within two (2) years.
   I.   A committee member or hearing officer (or any immediate family member
of said committee member/hearing officer) shall not have a conflict of interest
in the property or affairs of the applicant. (Ord. 2014-001, 1-14-2014)
3-2-8: PROCEDURE FOR FILING WRITTEN COMMENTS TO AN APPLICATION FOR SITE
LOCATION APPROVAL FOR A POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY:
   A.   Upon conclusion of the public hearing, the committee shall publish a
legal notice informing the public of the deadline for written comments.
   B.   Any person may file written comments with the county clerk concerning
the appropriateness of the proposed site for its intended purpose. The county
board shall consider any comment received or postmarked from the date of
acceptance of the application through and until thirty (30) days after the date
of the last public hearing in making its final determination. Said written
comments shall be mailed or delivered to the Grundy County clerk, 111 E.
Washington Street, P.O. Box 675, Morris, IL 60450. Said written comments shall
clearly designate reference to the pollution control facility application to
which they refer to ensure their consideration by the county board. Upon
receipt, the county clerk shall date stamp the comments and refer them to the
committee chairman. Copies of all comments received by the clerk shall be
forwarded to the county administrator, all county board members, the applicant,
the state's attorney and the land use department. Copies of comments shall be
distributed to other persons upon request and upon payment of the cost of
reproduction.
   C.   The above mentioned written comments shall become part of the record of
the proceedings. (Ord. 2014-001, 1-14-2014)
3-2-9: DECISIONS:
   A.   The siting approval procedures and criteria provided for in this
chapter for pollution control facilities shall be the exclusive siting
procedures and rules and approval procedures. Local zoning or other local land
use requirements shall not be applicable to such siting decisions.
   B.   Transcripts of the hearing are to be forwarded to all county board
members and the county executive for review.
   C.   Additional work sessions and meetings may be held by the committee, if
necessary, prior to referral of its findings and recommendation to the county
board. All work sessions and meetings shall be open to the public, but may not
allow public participation in the work sessions and meetings.
   D.   Upon completion of the evidentiary hearing, the county departments,
county board members and county administrator and the hearing officer shall
have reasonable time to file their final reports and recommendations with the
county board when requested by the committee. Copies of the final reports shall
be available for public inspection in the office of the county clerk for three
(3) days prior to the committee decision. Members of the public shall be
allowed to obtain a copy of said documents upon payment of the cost of
reproduction.
   E.   The decision of the committee on the application shall be in writing,
specifying the reason(s) for the decision. The meetings and deliberations of
the committee are and shall be subject to the Illinois open meetings act 1 . In
recommending site location approval, the committee may impose such conditions
as may be reasonable and necessary to accomplish the purposes of the act to the
extent that said conditions are not inconsistent with the act and the
regulations promulgated by the Illinois pollution control board.
   F.   Once the committee has made its recommendation and reduced its
recommendation to writing, the written recommendation shall be submitted to the
full county board for its decision as to the ultimate approval or disapproval
of the proposed site location.
   G.   If, prior to making a final local siting decision, the county
administrator or county board has negotiated and entered into a host agreement
with the local siting applicant, the terms and conditions of the host
agreement, whether written or oral, shall be disclosed and made part of the
hearing record for that local siting proceeding. In case of an oral agreement,
the disclosure shall be made in the form of a written summary jointly prepared
and submitted by the county administrator or county board and the siting
applicant and shall describe the terms and conditions of the oral agreement.
   H.   The county board shall make a decision based on the record from the
public hearing and review of the recommendation of the committee. The decision
of the county board shall be by resolution in writing, specifying the reasons
for the decision, such reasons to be in conformity with section 39.2(a) of the
act. Any county board member or immediate family member of said board member
who has a conflict of interest in the property or affairs of the applicant
shall not participate in any hearing or decision of the board. In granting site
location approval, the county board may impose such conditions as may be
reasonable and necessary to accomplish the purposes of the act to the extent
that said conditions are not inconsistent with the act and the regulations
promulgated by the Illinois pollution control board. Such decisions shall be
available for public inspection at the office of the county clerk and may be
copied upon payment of the cost of reproduction. County board shall notify
applicant and the IEPA of its decision within seven (7) days. If there is no
final action by the county board within one hundred eighty (180) days after the
filing of the application for site location approval, the applicant may deem
the application approved. (Ord. 2014-001, 1-14-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3-2-10: APPEALS:
All appeals of the county board decision (by the applicant, objector, or public
affected by the proposal) must be filed with the Illinois pollution control
board within thirty five (35) days of the county board's decision. (Ord. 2014-
001, 1-14-2014)
3-2-11: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed to be a separate, distinct and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof. (Ord. 2014-001, 1-14-2014)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE AND REFUSE; RECYCLING
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Use Of Garbage/Recycling Services
3-3-3: Responsibilities Of Rental Housing Unit Owners
3-3-4: Responsibility For Refuse And Recyclables
3-3-5: Prohibitions
3-3-6: Collector Licensing Requirements
3-3-7: Hearings
3-3-8: Violations And Penalties
3-3-9: Municipal Agreement
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
BUILDING: Any structure designed, built, or occupied as a shelter or roofed
enclosure for persons, animals or property.
COMPOSTING: The biological process by which microorganisms decompose the
organic faction of waste, producing a humus like material.
COUNTY: Both incorporated and unincorporated areas of Grundy County, Illinois.
CURBSIDE COLLECTION: The pick up of garbage, general household waste and
recyclables placed at the curb or roadside adjacent to or at the end of a
private driveway leading to a residence or business.
DWELLING: A building, exclusive of recreational vehicles, hotels or motels,
containing as its principal use one or more dwelling units.
DWELLING UNIT: A residential accommodation, including complete kitchen
facilities permanently installed, which is arranged, designed, used or intended
for use exclusively as living quarters for one family and not more than an
aggregate of two (2) roomers or boarders.
EFFECTIVE DATE: The date this chapter is approved and passed by the Grundy
County board.
GARBAGE: Any refuse products or materials including, but not limited to, the
following: putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, sale or consumption of food; animal excretion; glass or
metal containers; products or objects discarded as no longer usable; paper,
wood, and cardboard waste; ashes and cinders; discarded furniture or clothing;
dead animals; and any materials excluded from landfills or other final disposal
facilities by state statute. The term "garbage" does not include human
excretion in the form of body waste, except for soiled disposable diapers.
HAULERS: Any person who engages in the business of collecting or hauling
garbage, municipal waste, recyclables, landscape waste, brush or other refuse
on a continuous and regular basis, and makes scheduled collections per month
within the county.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: All accumulations of grass or shrubbery trimmings, leaves,
tree limbs, and other materials accumulated as the result of the care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines and trees.
MIXED WASTE COLLECTION: The collection of waste and recyclables in the same
container with no source separation of recyclables.
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING: A building containing three (3) or more dwelling units
used for residential occupancy, including apartment houses, fraternities,
sororities, dormitories and similar housing types, but not including hotels,
motels, hospitals, foster family homes, long term care facilities or semi-
independent group residents.
MUNICIPAL WASTE: Garbage, domiciliary or general household, institutional and
commercial waste, industrial lunchroom and office waste, landscape waste, and
construction and demolition debris.
OCCUPANT: A person or persons residing in dwellings of one or more units which
have either curbside, alley or centrally located waste collection service.
OFFICE OF SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT: The Grundy County office of solid waste
management.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, political subdivision, state
agency, or any other legal entity or its legal representative, agency, or
assigns.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Materials that are separated from garbage, municipal
waste or refuse for the purpose of recycling including, but not limited to,
newspaper, aluminum cans, bimetal cans, tin plated steel food cans, food or
beverage glass bottles and jars, (#2) HDPE bottles, and (#1) PETE soda bottles.
RECYCLING PLAN: The plan submitted by solid waste haulers specifying the
recycling and/or means to be provided to residential customers per subsection
3-3-6L of this chapter.
RECYCLING, RECLAMATION OR REUSE: A method, technique or process designed to
remove any contaminant from waste so as to render the waste reusable, or any
process by which materials that would otherwise be disposed of or discarded are
collected, separated or processed and returned to the economic mainstream in
the form of raw materials or products.
REFUSE: Waste.
RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER: A person who is an occupant of a residential dwelling
unit but does not include commercial customers.
RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT: Single-, two- and multi-family dwellings.
SCAVENGING: The unauthorized collection of municipal waste and recyclable
materials that have been set out by residents of the county specifically for an
authorized collection.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A dwelling which is a detached building containing only
one dwelling unit.
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN: The officially adopted county plan pursuant to the
Illinois solid waste planning and recycling act 1  for the management of
municipal waste generated within its boundaries.
SOURCE SEPARATION: The separation of recyclable materials from waste at the
point of generation.
TWO-FAMILY DWELLING: A dwelling containing two (2) dwelling units, each with
completely separate entrances.
WASTE: Any garbage, sludge from a waste treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant, or air pollution facility or other discarded material, including solid,
liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial,
commercial, mining and agricultural operations, and from community activities,
but does not include solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or
industrial discharges which are point sources subject to permits under section
402 of the federal water pollution control act as now or hereinafter amended,
or source, special nuclear, or byproduct materials as defined by the atomic
energy act of 1954, as amended, or any solid or dissolved material from any
facility subject to the federal surface mining control and reclamation act of
1977 or the rules and regulations thereunder, or any law or rule or regulation
adopted by the state of Illinois pursuant thereto. (Ord. 05-009, 5-10-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 15/1 et seq.
3-3-2: USE OF GARBAGE/RECYCLING SERVICES:
Each household in a residential dwelling unit in the county is encouraged to
use regularly scheduled garbage/recycling services. Such services must be
provided by a hauler duly licensed through the county of Grundy. (Ord. 05-009,
5-10-2005)
3-3-3: RESPONSIBILITIES OF RENTAL HOUSING UNIT OWNERS:
   A.   Owners of rental residential dwelling units in the county shall either
furnish regularly scheduled garbage/recycling services to their tenants or make
the procurement of such services a condition of the rental agreement between
the tenant and the owner. Recycling collection services shall, at a minimum,
include recycling of the materials listed in subsection
3-3-4A1 of this chapter.
   B.   Owners of residential mobile home rental sites or mobile home parks in
the county which furnish garbage pick up as part of services provided shall,
upon expiration of the hauling contract currently in force or through
renegotiation of an existing contract, provide recycling services to tenants,
at a minimum to include materials listed in subsection
3-3-4A1 of this chapter, said services to commence no later than January 1,
1997. (Ord. 05-009, 5-10-2005)
3-3-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REFUSE AND RECYCLABLES:
   A.   Responsibility for refuse and recyclable material set out for
collection shall remain with the occupant who sets out the material until it is
removed by the licensed hauler. The occupant who sets out the refuse and
recyclable material is totally responsible for its proper preparation,
handling, care and storage.
      1.   Households are encouraged to separate from their solid waste an
unlimited amount of recyclable materials including, but not limited to:
newspaper, aluminum, bimetal and tin plated steel food and beverage cans, glass
food and beverage bottles and jars, (#1) PETE soda bottles, (#2) HDPE bottles
and other materials as accepted for recycling by the contracted hauler.
   B.   Upon removal by the licensed hauler, ownership and responsibility for
the proper handling of the refuse and recyclable materials shall be vested in
the hauler. Hauler has the right to refuse collection of recyclables which are
improperly prepared or which contain garbage.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall abridge the right of any recycling and
composting program or business lawfully operating for profit, nonprofit or
charitable purposes from selling recyclables or landscape waste. (Ord. 05-009,
5-10-2005)
3-3-5: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person not licensed by the county under
section
3-3-6 of this chapter to take, collect or scavenge any recyclable materials set
out for licensed collection programs within the county.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any hauler to dispose of source separated
recyclable materials as waste. All source separated recyclables shall be
delivered to a processing facility which employs means to recover and market
each type of source separated recyclable collected. Any delivery of source
separated recyclables directly to a disposal facility or to a transfer station
where all materials are bound for disposal will be considered a violation of
this chapter.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any hauler to commingle source separated
recyclables with waste on the collection vehicle if the load is not taken to a
processing facility which employs means to separate and market each type of
recyclable. Source separation is the preferred method of collecting recyclable
materials. Haulers which collect recyclables solely through mixed waste
collection, where no source separation of recyclables from waste takes place,
will not be granted a license under section
3-3-6 of this chapter to collect municipal waste and/or recyclables in the
county. (Ord. 05-009, 5-10-2005)
3-3-6: COLLECTOR LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the business of collecting
or hauling garbage, municipal waste, recyclables, landscape waste, brush or
other refuse, on a continuous and regular basis, with scheduled collections per
month, from any location within the county without first procuring a license to
do so from the county. Unless earlier suspended or revoked, such license shall
be valid for a twelve (12) month period; provided that the initial license
issued under this section may, at the option of the office of solid waste
management, be valid for up to twenty one (21) months and shall be so
specified.
   B.   Conditions For Licensing: Licensee shall provide basic curbside or end
of the driveway recycling service to every residential dwelling unit licensee
served with garbage pick up, at a single combined price. Materials to be
recycled include, at a minimum, those listed in subsection
3-3-4A1 of this chapter. Hauler has the right to refuse collection of
recyclables improperly prepared or which contain garbage.
   C.   Application For License: Within sixty (60) days from the effective date
hereof, and each year thereafter, each hauler shall complete and return an
application for licensing as provided by the office of solid waste management
with a recycling plan for areas to be served. The applicant shall comply with
the provisions of this chapter pending action by the office of solid waste
management on the license.
   D.   Renewal Of License: All haulers licensed under this chapter must
complete and return to the office of solid waste management license renewal
forms within thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the hauler's current
license. The office of solid waste management will provide renewal forms to the
haulers sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the hauler's current
license. However, the responsibility of timely renewal is that of the hauler
only.
   E.   Conditional License: The office of solid waste management may grant a
conditional license where an application and/or recycling plan is incomplete.
The conditional license shall specify the conditions upon which a permanent
license will be granted and the time requirement within which the conditions
specified must be satisfied. Failure to satisfy the specified conditions within
the time frame required shall result in a revocation of conditional license and
denial of the permanent license.
   F.   Accuracy Of Information: All information required by this chapter shall
be complete, accurate, and submitted in a timely manner.
   G.   Change Of Business Operation: Hauler shall notify the office of solid
waste management in writing of any change to their respective recycling plan
prior to the effective date of the change.
   H.   Nontransferability Of License; Change In Ownership: No license is
transferable; any attempted transfer of a license shall immediately void such
license. Notice of change in ownership shall be filed in the office of solid
waste management a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of
the change.
   I.   Acknowledgment, Receipt And Review Of Solid Waste Management Plan: All
waste haulers licensed by the county shall receive one copy of the solid waste
management plan from the county, and shall acknowledge receipt of said plan in
writing. When the plan is reviewed and updated, licensed haulers will receive
draft copies of the updates for their review and input.
   J.   Issuance Or Denial Of License:
      1.   Time Limit On Action: The office of solid waste management shall
have thirty (30) days from the receipt of the initial license application or
renewal application to issue, request modifications and clarifications or deny
the license, license renewal or conditional license.
      2.   Notice Of Decision: The office of solid waste management shall
notify the applicant in writing of its decision on a license application. If
issued, the license shall be mailed by first class mail to the address provided
in the application. If denied, a written decision shall be served personally or
by certified mail upon the applicant at the address provided in the
application.
      3.   Denial Of License; Appeal: A written decision of denial shall also
include notice to the applicant that, if an appeal is desired, a written
request for a hearing must be received by the office of solid waste management
within fifteen (15) calendar days following receipt of the decision. Upon
receipt of a request for hearing, the county shall set a time and place for the
hearing. The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the procedures in section
3-3-7 of this chapter.
   K.   License And Vehicle Registration Fees:
      1.   Schedule Of Fees: The following fees shall be required for each
license and vehicle registration.
         For each license: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
         For each vehicle used in collecting or hauling garbage, municipal
waste, recyclables, landscape waste, brush or other refuse: Twenty five dollars
($25.00).
      2.   Payment Of Fees; Exemptions: Payment of all fees must accompany the
license application or license renewal application. Exempted are such vehicles
owned or operated by any incorporated or unincorporated city, village or
township used in hauling garbage or landscape waste to any disposal area owned
or maintained by such city, village or township. Also exempted are vehicles
owned or operated by waste haulers used, temporarily, to provide garbage,
recycling or landscape waste collection service to their customers residing on
public roads posted with weight limitations.
      3.   Vehicle Registration Decal: The county reserves the right to issue
to each applicant or licensee a vehicle registration decal to be placed
conspicuously on the outside of each vehicle so utilized by the hauler in
Grundy County. Such decals may be issued annually. The number of said vehicles
utilized by the hauler shall be reported in the application.
   L.   Recycling Plan Required: As a condition of licensing approval, each
applicant or licensee shall submit a recycling plan or plans to be offered to
their residential customers. The office of solid waste management shall supply
the form to be used for submission of the plan(s). The recycling plan or plans
shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      1.   The means, method, and venue to be employed for the collection,
processing and marketing of separated material collected from occupants of
residential dwelling units served.
      2.   Identification of specific recycling services to be employed (e.g.,
18 gallon bins or 32 gallon "blue bag", etc.).
      3.   Expected number of households proposed to be serviced with garbage/
recycling during the license year by each collection method used in subsection
L2 of this section.
      4.   The frequency of collection of garbage, recyclables and landscape
waste, length of contract where applicable and the method and frequency of
billing to be used.
      5.   The identification of the types of recyclable material to be
collected, in addition to those listed under subsection
3-3-4A1 of this chapter.
      6.   The provisions being offered for collection of large household items
that may be landfilled including, but not limited to, discarded furniture,
carpeting, mattresses, etc., generated from households. Large items including,
but not limited to, pieces of furniture, mattresses, carpeting, and other
similar household items are not to be included as part of the refuse limitation
but accepted according to the rules set forth by the hauler servicing the
household.
      7.   Provisions, if any, being offered for collection or disposal of
items that may not be landfilled including, but not limited to, major
appliances, scrap tires or other materials currently banned from landfills.
   M.   Reports Required: As a minimum, haulers will be required to submit
quarterly reports to the office of solid waste management documenting the
tonnage of waste collected, to be used for purposes of tracking the
implementation progress of the solid waste management plan. The quarterly
reports are due no later than sixty (60) days after the ending date of the
quarter, and the following information must be reported:
      1.   Total tonnage of municipal waste collected by the hauler pursuant to
each municipal or township hauling contract within the county. The reported
tonnage shall identify the total tonnage collected in each municipality and, as
possible, by geographic area within the unincorporated portions of the county.
      2.   The individual tonnages of various categories of recyclable material
collected and recycled pursuant to each hauling contract within the county.
   N.   Compliance With Other Laws: The obtaining of a license herein shall not
be deemed to exclude the necessity of obtaining other licenses, permits or
approvals as required by applicable laws or regulations. The hauler shall at
all times operate in compliance with all applicable laws, rules or regulations.
   O.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License:
      1.   Notice Of Suspension Or Revocation: Written notice of a suspension
or revocation shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
upon the licensee at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the effective
date of the suspension or revocation. The written notice shall contain the
effective date of the suspension or revocation; the facts which support the
conclusion that a violation or violations have occurred; a statement that if
the licensee desires to appeal, a written request for a hearing must be
received by the office of solid waste management within fifteen (15) calendar
days following receipt of the notice; and that the request for hearing must
state the grounds for appeal. If a hearing is requested, the suspension or
revocation shall be stayed pending outcome of the hearing.
      2.   Appeal And Hearing: Upon receipt of a request for hearing, the
office of solid waste management shall set a date, time and place for the
hearing. The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the procedures in section
3-3-7 of this chapter.
      3.   Summary Suspension Of License:
         a.   If the office of solid waste management finds that the public
health, safety, or welfare requires immediate action, summary suspension of a
license may be ordered.
         b.   Written notice of a summary suspension shall be by personal
service upon the licensee or sent by certified return receipt mail to the
licensee's business address. The office of solid waste management shall also
take reasonable steps to notify the licensee by telephone prior to the summary
suspension.
            (1)   The written notice shall state the effective date of the
summary suspension; the violation(s) that has occurred; a statement that if the
licensee desires to appeal, a written request for hearing must be received by
the office of solid waste management within ten (10) calendar days following
receipt of the notice; and that the request must state the grounds for appeal.
         c.   Upon receipt of a request for hearing, the office of solid waste
management shall set a date, time and place for the hearing. The hearing shall
be conducted pursuant to the procedures in section
3-3-7 of this chapter.
         d.   The summary suspension shall not be stayed pending an appeal.
(Ord. 05-009, 5-10-2005)
3-3-7: HEARINGS:
Hearings required pursuant to this chapter shall be conducted as follows:
   A.   Hearing Commission: The hearing shall be before an impartial hearing
commission consisting of three (3) members appointed by the Grundy County board
upon recommendation from the environmental committee of the Grundy County
board.
   B.   Prehearing And Hearing Notice: The office of solid waste management
shall schedule and provide notice of the date, time and place of the prehearing
conference and hearing. The prehearing conference shall be held at least three
(3) weeks prior to the hearing or by mutual agreement of the parties.
   C.   Procedures: The prehearing conference and hearing shall be conducted in
the following manner:
      1.   The prehearing conference shall define the issues, schedule the
exchange of witness lists and documents and relevant testimonial evidence,
determine whether intended evidence is cumulative and repetitive, and consider
all other matters that will assist in a fair and expeditious hearing.
      2.   Each party shall exchange all relevant information and documentary
evidence at least one week prior to the hearing date. Such information shall
include all evidence intended for introduction at the hearing and includes, but
is not limited to, the following: exhibits, statements, reports, witness lists
including a description of the facts and opinions to which each is expected to
testify, photographs, slides, and demonstrative evidence. Evidence not
exchanged in accordance with this subsection C2 will not be considered in the
hearing unless good cause is shown to the hearing commission.
      3.   The hearing shall be public and shall be recorded by a certified
court reporter.
      4.   All witnesses shall testify under oath or affirmation.
      5.   The hearing is subject to the general rules of evidence with
latitude necessary to gain facts or information. Irrelevant, immaterial or
unduly repetitive evidence shall be excluded.
      6.   The office of solid waste management shall have the burden of proof
through preponderance of the evidence.
      7.   The office of solid waste management, licensee or applicant and
additional parties as determined by the hearing commission shall present
evidence in that order. Each party shall have the opportunity to cross examine
the witnesses.
      8.   The hearing commission shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions based upon the evidence provided at the hearing.
      9.   The cost of making and preparing a record shall be borne by the
applicant or licensee.
      10.   Appeal of a decision by the hearing commission shall be made to the
circuit court within thirty (30) calendar days following the hearing commission
decision. (Ord. 05-009, 5-10-2005)
3-3-8: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Civil Penalties: Any hauler who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first violation;
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the second violation; and two hundred dollars
($200.00) for three (3) or more violations or for each day of continuing
violation.
   B.   Additional Actions: The county may institute appropriate actions or
proceedings, including application for injunctive relief, action to compel
performance or other appropriate action to prevent, restrain, correct or abate
any violation or threatened violation of this chapter. (Ord. 05-009, 5-10-2005)
3-3-9: MUNICIPAL AGREEMENT:
   A.   If a municipality within the county has signed the intergovernmental
agreement between the county and the municipality and has a recycling ordinance
in place on the effective date hereof which substantially conforms with or
exceeds this chapter, the municipality may continue to enforce its ordinance,
and such enforcement shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this
chapter, except the licensing requirements, which will continue in full force
and effect.
   B.   A municipality may choose, at any time, to enact and enforce a
recycling ordinance that is more stringent than this chapter. (Ord. 05-009, 5-
10-2005)
ARTICLE A. DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Disposal Of Garbage
3-3A-2: Disposal Of Refuse
3-3A-3: Vehicles Transporting Garbage And Refuse
3-3A-4: Violation; Penalty
3-3A-1: DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE:
No person, firm or corporation shall discharge, deposit, place or permit the
discharging, depositing, or placing on any premises in the county, except a
sanitary landfill, of any garbage, filth, offal, or refuse accumulation of
animal, fruit or vegetable matter, or other nauseous matter or substance, or
waste from sewage disposal plants which, by reason of its quantity or
decomposition, would become foul, odorous, subject to spontaneous combustion,
or tend to breed rodents, flies, mosquitoes or harmful bacteria, or otherwise
become detrimental to the public health or conducive to the spread of disease.
(Ord., 3-15-1972)
3-3A-2: DISPOSAL OF REFUSE:
No person, firm or corporation shall deposit or place, or permit the depositing
or placing, on any premises in the county, except a sanitary landfill, of cans,
bottles, or containers of any kind in such manner or under such conditions as
would create a breeding place for rodents, flies, or mosquitoes, or otherwise
become a detriment to the public health or conducive to the spread of disease.
(Ord., 3-15-1972)
3-3A-3: VEHICLES TRANSPORTING GARBAGE AND REFUSE:
No person owning or controlling any vehicle used for the purpose of carrying,
carting, hauling or transporting garbage, ashes, refuse, or miscellaneous waste
shall cause or permit any vehicle to be so loaded, to be in such defective
condition, so out of repair, of such faulty construction, or so improperly
driven or managed that any garbage, ashes, refuse, or miscellaneous waste with
which such vehicle is loaded, or is being loaded, shall drop or fall onto any
public way or other place. Such vehicles shall be so constructed and covered as
to prevent any part of the contents thereof from falling, leaking, or spilling
therefrom. (Ord., 3-15-1972)
3-3A-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any violation of any provision of this article is a misdemeanor, punishable by
a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord., 3-15-1972; amd. 2004 Code)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Short Title
4-1-2: Purpose And Policy
4-1-3: Definitions
4-1-4: County Emergency Services And Disaster Agency
4-1-5: Illinois Emergency Management Agency
4-1-6: Powers Of Board Chairman
4-1-7: Declaration Of Emergencies
4-1-8: Volunteer Teams
4-1-9: Mutual Aid Arrangements
4-1-10: Financing
4-1-11: Utilization Of Existing Agency, Facilities And Personnel
4-1-12: Testing Warning Devices
4-1-13: Orders, Rules And Regulations
4-1-14: Nonliability
4-1-15: Limitations Of Provisions
4-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter is in relation to emergency management and may be cited as the
GRUNDY COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE. (Ord., 1-10-1995; amd. 2004 Code)
4-1-2: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
   A.   Because of the possible occurrence of emergencies or disasters of
unprecedented size and destructiveness resulting from the explosion of nuclear
devices or other means from without, or by means of sabotage or other disloyal
actions from within, or from fire, flood, earthquake, telecommunications
failure or other natural, manmade or technological causes, and in order to
ensure that the county will be prepared for and can adequately deal with any
such disaster, preserve the lives and property of the people of the county and
protect the public peace, health and safety in the event of such an emergency
or disaster, it is found and declared to be necessary:
      1.   To create a county emergency services and disaster agency, which
shall act as the emergency management agency for the county.
      2.   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid to other political
subdivisions and taxing districts with respect to the carrying out of emergency
management and disaster operations.
   B.   It is further declared to be the purpose of this chapter and the policy
of the county that all emergency management programs of the county be
coordinated to the maximum extent with the comparable functions of the federal,
state and local governments, including their various departments and agencies,
of municipalities and localities and private agencies of every type, to the end
that the most effective preparation and use may be made of the manpower,
resources and facilities for dealing with any disaster that may occur. (Ord.,
1-10-1995)
4-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the
following words and terms shall have the definitions hereinafter ascribed:
COORDINATOR: The staff assistant to the county board chairman with the duty of
coordinating the emergency management programs of Grundy County, with the title
of "director".
COUNTY EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY: The agency established by this
chapter that shall be responsible for the coordination of the overall emergency
management program of Grundy County and with private organizations, political
subdivisions, and the state and federal governments. The "county emergency
services and disaster agency" also means the local agency responsible for the
implementation of title III of the superfund amendments and reauthorization act
of 1986 and the local emergency management agency.
DISASTER: An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural or technological cause,
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous
materials spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, extended periods
of severe and inclement weather, drought, infestation, critical shortages of
essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot, hostile military or paramilitary
action, public health emergencies, or acts of domestic terrorism.
DISASTER TRAINING EXERCISE: A planned event designed specifically to simulate
an actual disaster that will provide emergency operations training for
emergency response personnel. Actual response by emergency services and
disaster agency volunteers to local emergency situations not qualifying as
"disasters", as defined in this section, is considered a disaster training
exercise. Provided, however, that performance of the usual and customary
emergency functions of a political subdivision (e.g., police, fire or emergency
medical services) is not included within this definition of a "disaster
training exercise".
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: The efforts of the state and the political subdivisions
to develop, plan, analyze, conduct, provide, implement and maintain programs
for disaster mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery.
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN: The written plan of the state and the county
describing the organization, mission and functions of the government and
supporting services for responding to and recovery from disasters.
EMERGENCY SERVICES: The coordination of functions by the state and the county,
other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible, as
may be necessary or proper to prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury
and damage resulting from any natural or technological causes. These functions
include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, emergency
aviation services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning
services, communications, radiological, chemical and other special weapons
defense, evacuation of persons from stricken or threatened areas, emergency
assigned functions of plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility
services and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all
other activities necessary or incidental to protecting life or property.
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY: The agency established by this chapter
within the county to coordinate the emergency management program within the
county and with private organizations, other political subdivisions, the state
and federal governments, entitled the "Grundy County Emergency Management
Agency".
ILLINOIS EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY: The agency established by the executive
branch of state government responsible for coordination of the overall
emergency management program of the state with private organizations, political
subdivisions, and the federal government. "Illinois emergency management
agency" also means the state emergency response commission responsible for the
implementation of title III of the superfund amendments and reauthorization act
of 1986.
MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM: A group of individuals designated as a team by the
governor or the director of the Illinois emergency management agency to train
prior to and to be dispatched, if the governor or the director so determines,
to aid and reinforce the state and the county emergency management efforts in
response to a disaster.
MUNICIPALITY: Any city, village and incorporated town.
POLITICAL SUBDIVISION: Any county, city, village, or incorporated town or
township if the township is in a county having a population of more than two
million (2,000,000).
PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER: Chairman of the county board, or in his/her
absence or disability, the interim successor as established under section 7 of
the emergency succession act 1 .
PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY: An occurrence or imminent threat of an illness or
health condition that:
   A.   Is believed to be caused by any of the following:
      1.   Bioterrorism;
      2.   The appearance of a novel or previously controlled or eradicated
infectious agent or biological toxin;
      3.   A natural disaster;
      4.   A chemical attack or accidental release; or
      5.   A nuclear attack or accident; and
   B.   Poses a high probability of any of the following harms:
      1.   A large number of deaths in the county;
      2.   A large number of serious or long term disabilities in the county;
or
      3.   Widespread exposure to an infectious or toxic agent that poses a
significant risk of substantial future harm to a large number of people in the
county.
VOLUNTEER: Any person who has freely donated his time to the emergency
management program. (Ord., 1-10-1995; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 275/7.
4-1-4: COUNTY EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY:
   A.   Agency Created; Composition: There is hereby created an emergency
services and disaster agency and a coordinator of the emergency services and
disaster agency, herein called the "coordinator", who shall be the head
thereof.
   B.   Jurisdiction: The county ESDA shall have jurisdiction over and serve
the entire county.
   C.   Coordinator:
      1.   Appointment: The county board chairman, with the consent of the
county board, shall appoint the coordinator of the county ESDA in the same
manner as are the heads of other county departments.
      2.   Responsibility/Duties: The coordinator, subject to the direction and
control of the board chairman, shall be the executive head of the county
emergency services and disaster agency, and shall be responsible, under the
direction of the board chairman, for carrying out the program for emergency
services and disaster operations of the county. He shall coordinate the
activities of all organizations for emergency services and disaster operations
within the county and shall maintain liaison and cooperate with the emergency
management and disaster agencies and organizations of other counties and
municipalities, and of the federal and state governments.
      3.   Vacancy In Office: In the event of absence, resignation, death, or
inability to serve by the coordinator, the board chairman, or any persons
designated by him, shall be and act as coordinator until a new appointment is
made as provided in this chapter.
   D.   Oath Of Office: Each person, whether compensated or noncompensated, who
is appointed to serve in any capacity in a department of the county emergency
services and disaster agency shall, before entering upon his duties, take an
oath, in writing, before a person authorized to administer oaths in the county,
which oath shall be filed with the coordinator of the county emergency services
and disaster agency, and which oath shall be substantially as follows:
      I                            , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will
support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the
territory, institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private,
against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and
that during such time I am affiliated with the Grundy County Emergency Services
and Disaster Agency, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this State by force or violence.
   E.   Functions And Duties:
      1.   The county emergency services and disaster agency shall take an
integral part in the development and revision of local and interjurisdictional
disaster plans. The coordinator shall be authorized to form an emergency
management advisory committee composed of private and public personnel involved
in the four (4) phases of emergency management.
      2.   In the development of local and interjurisdictional disaster plans,
the county emergency services and disaster agency shall interrelate with
business, labor, industry, agriculture, civic and volunteer organizations and
community leaders.
      3.   The county emergency services and disaster agency shall:
         a.   Coordinate the overall emergency management programs of the
county.
         b.   Cooperate with all public and private organizations, agencies or
entities to achieve the purpose of this chapter and in implementing emergency
management programs for mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery.
         c.   Create volunteer units to provide and implement those actions
needed to protect the public health and safety including, but not limited to,
those tasks normally conducted by law enforcement, firefighting, EMS or other
personnel that are considered necessary, incidental or appropriate for the
implementation of this chapter.
         d.   Prepare for issuance by the county board chairman executive
orders, proclamations, and regulations as necessary or appropriate in coping
with disasters.
         e.   Promulgate rules, regulations and standards for emergency
operations plans of political subdivisions located within the county.
         f.   Review the emergency operations plans of political subdivisions
within the county and recommend revisions under rules and standards of the
county.
         g.   Determine the requirements of the county and its political
subdivisions for food, clothing and other necessities in the event of a
disaster.
         h.   Establish a roster of persons with types of emergency management
training and skills in mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery.
         i.   Establish a list of government and private response resources
that could be available for use in a disaster.
         j.   Maintain a hazard awareness program and efforts to distribute
preparedness materials to schools, political subdivisions, community groups,
civic organizations and the media.
         k.   Disseminate all severe weather information completely and without
delay to those political subdivisions, agencies and organizations to the
maximum extent possible.
         l.   Do all other things necessary, incidental or appropriate for the
implementation of this chapter.
   F.   Staff And Expenditures: The county emergency services and disaster
agency shall obtain, with board approval, such technical, clerical,
stenographic and other administrative personnel, and may make such expenditures
within its appropriation as may be deemed necessary to carry out the purpose of
this chapter. (Ord., 1-10-1995)
4-1-5: ILLINOIS EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY:
   A.   County Contact: The Illinois emergency management agency shall be the
point of contact at the state level for the county emergency services and
disaster agency.
   B.   Rules And Regulations Adopted By County: The Illinois emergency
management agency rules, regulations and orders that pertain to county
emergency management programs should be adopted by the county emergency
services and disaster agency. (Ord., 1-10-1995)
4-1-6: POWERS OF BOARD CHAIRMAN:
   A.   Emergency Management Powers:
      1.   The board chairman shall have the general direction and control of
the emergency services and disaster agency, and shall be responsible for the
carrying out of the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   In performing his duties under this chapter, the board chairman is
authorized to cooperate with state and federal governments and with other
municipalities and political subdivisions in all matters pertaining to
emergency services and disaster operations defined in this chapter.
      3.   In performing his duties under this chapter, the board chairman is
further authorized:
         a.   To make, amend and rescind all lawful necessary orders, rules and
regulations to carry out the provisions of this chapter within the limits of
the authority conferred upon him.
         b.   To cause to be prepared a comprehensive plan and program for the
emergency management of the county, which plan and program shall be integrated
into and coordinated with disaster plans of the state and federal governments
and of other political subdivisions, and which plan and program may include:
            (1)   Mitigation or minimization of injury and damage caused by
disaster.
            (2)   Prompt and effective response to disaster.
            (3)   Emergency relief.
            (4)   Identification of areas particularly vulnerable to disasters.
            (5)   Recommendations for zoning, building and other land use
controls, safety measures for securing permanent structures and other
preventative and preparedness measures designed to eliminate or reduce
disasters or their impact.
            (6)   Assistance to local officials in designing local emergency
plans.
            (7)   Authorization and procedures for the erecting or other
construction of temporary works designed to protect against or mitigate danger,
damage or loss from flood, conflagration or other disaster.
            (8)   Preparation and distribution to the appropriate county
officials of a county catalog of federal, state and private assistance
programs.
            (9)   Organization of county manpower and chains of command.
            (10)   Coordination of federal, state and local disaster
activities.
            (11)   Other necessary matters.
         c.   In accordance with such plan and program for the emergency
services and disaster management of the county, and out of funds appropriated
for such purposes, to procure and preposition supplies, medicines, materials
and equipment, to institute training programs and public information programs,
and to take all other preparatory steps, including the partial or full
mobilization of emergency services and disaster organizations, in advance of
actual disaster, to ensure the furnishing of adequately trained and equipped
forces for disaster operations.
         d.   Out of funds appropriated for such purposes, to make such studies
and surveys of the industries, resources and facilities in the county as may be
necessary to ascertain the capabilities of the county for disaster operations
and disaster preparedness, response and recovery, and to plan for the most
efficient emergency use thereof.
      4.   The board chairman is authorized to designate space in a county
building or elsewhere for the emergency services and disaster agency as its
office.
   B.   Emergency Powers 1 : In the event of a "disaster", as defined in
section
4-1-3 of this chapter, the county board chairman may, by proclamation, declare
that a disaster exists. Upon such proclamation, the county board chairman shall
have and may exercise for a period not to exceed seven (7) days the following
emergency powers; provided, however, that the lapse of the emergency powers
shall not, as regards any act or acts occurring or committed within the seven
(7) day period, deprive any person, firm, corporation, or political subdivision
of any right or rights to compensation or reimbursement which he, she, it or
they may have under the provisions of this chapter:
      1.   To suspend the provisions of any rules, policies or orders for
conducting county business, or the orders, rules or restrictions of any county
agency or department, if strict compliance with such rules, regulations,
policies or orders would hinder or delay necessary action, including emergency
purchases, by the county emergency services and disaster agency, in coping with
the disaster.
      2.   To use all available resources of the county necessary to cope with
the disaster.
      3.   To transfer the direction, personnel or function of county
departments and agencies or units thereof for the purpose of performing or
facilitating disaster response and recovery programs. (Ord., 1-10-1995)
      4.   On behalf of the county, to take possession of, and to acquire full
title or a lesser specified interest in, any personal property as may be
necessary to accomplish the objectives set forth in section
4-1-2 of this chapter, including: aircraft, automobiles, trucks, trailers,
buses and other vehicles; coal, oil, gasoline and other fuels and means of
propulsion; explosives, materials, equipment and supplies; food and provisions
for humans and animals; clothing and bedding; and medicines and medical and
surgical supplies; and to take possession of and, for a limited period, occupy
and use any real estate necessary to accomplish those objectives, but only upon
the undertaking by the county to pay just compensation therefor, as in this
chapter provided, and then only under the following provisions: (Ord., 1-10-
1995; amd. 2004 Code)
         a.   The county board chairman, or the person or persons as the county
board chairman may authorize so to do, may forthwith take possession of
property for and on behalf of the county; provided, however, that the county
board chairman or persons shall simultaneously with the taking, deliver to the
owner or his agent, if the identity of the owner or agency is known or readily
ascertainable, a signed statement in writing, that shall include the name and
address of the owner, the date and place of the taking, description of the
property sufficient to identify said property, a statement of interest in the
property that is being so taken, and, if possible, a statement in writing,
signed by the owner, setting forth the sum that he or she is willing to accept
as just compensation for the property or use. Whether or not the owner or agent
is known or readily ascertainable, a true copy of the statement shall promptly
be filed by the county board chairman or the person with the coordinator, who
shall keep the docket of the statements. In cases where the sum that the owner
is willing to accept as just compensation is less than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), copies of the statements shall also be filed by the coordinator
with, and shall be passed upon by, an emergency management claims commission,
consisting of three (3) disinterested citizens who shall be appointed by the
county board chairman, by and with the advice and consent of the county board,
within twenty (20) days after the county board chairman's declaration of a
disaster, and if the sum fixed as just compensation is less than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) and is accepted in writing by the owner, then the county
treasurer shall, out of funds appropriated for these purposes, upon
certification thereof by the emergency management claims commission, cause the
sum so certified forthwith to be paid to the owner. The emergency management
claims commission is hereby given the power to issue appropriate subpoenas and
to administer oaths to witnesses and shall keep appropriate minutes and other
records of its actions upon, and the disposition made, of all claims. (Ord., 1-
10-1995)
         b.   When the compensation to be paid for the taking or use of
property or interest therein is not or cannot be determined and paid under
subsection B4a of this section, a petition in the name of "The People Of The
State Of Illinois" shall be promptly filed by the coordinator, which filing may
be enforced by mandamus, in the circuit court of the county praying that the
amount of compensation to be paid to the person or persons interested therein
be fixed and determined. The petition shall include a description of the
property that has been taken, shall state the physical condition of the
property when taken, shall name as defendants all interested parties, shall set
forth the sum of money estimated to be just compensation for the property or
interest therein taken or used, and shall be signed by the coordinator. The
litigation shall be handled by the state's attorney for and on behalf of the
county. (Ord., 1-10-1995; amd. 2004 Code)
         c.   Just compensation for the taking or use of property or interest
therein shall be promptly ascertained in proceedings and established by
judgment against the county, which shall include, as part of the just
compensation so awarded, interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum on
the fair market value of the property or interest therein from the date of the
taking or use to the date of the judgment; and the court may order the payment
of delinquent taxes and special assessments out of the amount so awarded as
just compensation and may make any other orders with respect to encumbrances,
rents, insurance and other charges, if any, as shall be just and equitable.
      5.   When required by the exigencies of the disaster, to sell, lend,
rent, give, or distribute all or any part of property so, or otherwise,
acquired to the inhabitants of the county or under mutual aid agreements as are
entered into under the provisions of this chapter. All funds shall be
transmitted to the county treasurer.
      6.   To recommend the evacuation of all or part of the population from
any stricken or threatened area within the county if he deems this action
necessary.
      7.   To prescribe routes, modes of transportation, and destinations in
connection with evacuation.
      8.   To control ingress and egress to and from a disaster area, the
movement of persons within the area, and the occupancy of premises therein.
      9.   To suspend or limit the sale, dispensing, or transportation of
alcoholic beverages, firearms, explosives, and combustibles.
      10.   To make provision for the availability and use of temporary
emergency housing.
      11.   A proclamation of a disaster shall activate the county emergency
operations plan and political subdivision emergency operations plans applicable
to the political subdivision or area in question, and be authority for the
deployment and use of any forces that the plan or plans apply and for use or
distribution of any supplies, equipment, and materials and facilities
assembled, stockpiled or arranged to be made available under this chapter or
any other provision of law relating to disasters.
      12.   Control, restrict, and regulate by rationing, freezing, use of
quotas, prohibitions on shipments, price fixing, allocation or other means, the
use, sale or distribution of food, feed, fuel, clothing and other commodities,
materials, goods, or services; and perform and exercise any other functions,
powers, and duties as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety and
protection of the civilian population.
      13.   During the continuance of any disaster, the county board chairman
is commander of the organized and unorganized forces available for emergency
duty. To the greatest extent practicable, the county board chairman shall
delegate or assign command authority to do so by orders issued at the time of
the disaster.
      14.   Prohibit increases in the prices of goods and services during a
disaster. (Ord., 1-10-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  4-1-7 of this chapter.
4-1-7: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCIES 1 :
   A.   State Of Emergency: Whenever the county board chairman determines after
an investigation that a dangerous situation or potentially dangerous situation
exists which could cause death to individuals or serious injury to property or
the health and welfare of the public, the board chairman may declare that a
state of emergency exists. The bases for a declaration of a state of emergency
are as stated in subsection
4-1-6B of this chapter. The board chairman may not exercise such extraordinary
power and authority except after signing under oath a statement finding that
such standards have been met, setting forth facts to substantiate such
findings, describing the nature of the emergency and declaring that a state of
emergency exists. This statement shall be filed with the county clerk as soon
as practical. A state of emergency shall expire not later than the adjournment
of the first regular meeting of the county board or seven (7) days, whichever
occurs first, after the state of emergency is declared. A subsequent state of
emergency may be declared if necessary. (Ord., 1-10-1995; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Local Disasters:
      1.   A local disaster may be declared only by the county board chairman
or his interim emergency successor, as provided in section 7 of the "Emergency
Interim Executive Succession Act 2 ". It shall not be continued or renewed for
a period in excess of seven (7) days except by or with the consent of the
county board. Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a
local disaster shall be given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed
promptly with the county clerk. (Ord., 1-10-1995)
      2.   The effect of a declaration of a local disaster is to activate the
emergency operations plan of the county and to authorize the furnishing of aid
and assistance thereunder. (Ord., 1-10-1995; amd. 2004 Code)
      3.   The coordinator of the county emergency services and disaster agency
is hereby authorized to provide emergency management services in response to
potential or actual emergency situations prior to the issuance of a disaster
declaration. (Ord., 1-10-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  4-1-6B of this chapter.
2 2. 5 ILCS 275/7.
4-1-8: VOLUNTEER TEAMS:
   A.   Creation Of Teams: The county board chairman or the coordinator may
cause to be created various volunteer teams or units to aid and to reinforce
the county emergency services and disaster agency in areas stricken by
disaster. Volunteer teams may be created and permanently maintained in
preparation for response to potential disaster situations.
   B.   Mutual Aid: Organizations not expressly created by or for emergency
management purposes may, by mutual agreement, provide volunteer services to the
emergency services and disaster agency.
   C.   Powers, Duties And Immunities: County employees assigned emergency
management duties during disasters or preparations for disasters shall have the
powers, duties, rights, privileges and immunities and receive the compensation
incidental to their employment.
   D.   Compensation:
      1.   If the volunteer is assigned emergency management duties, expenses
relative to the assignment may be provided if funds for that purpose are
available. (Ord., 1-10-1995)
      2.   Volunteers participating in events funded by the Illinois EMA,
division of nuclear safety, may be compensated at the rate of ten dollars
($10.00) per hour while in compliance with the rules and regulations of the
compensation program of the Illinois nuclear safety preparedness act (INSPA),
420 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.; provided, that funds are available
through that program. (Ord., 1-10-1995; amd. 2004 Code)
   E.   Dissolution Of Teams: The coordinator shall have the authority to
dissolve any or all volunteer teams or units thereof if such dissolution would
be in the best interest of the emergency management programs of the county.
(Ord., 1-10-1995)
4-1-9: MUTUAL AID ARRANGEMENTS:
The coordinator for emergency services and disaster agency may, in
collaboration with other public agencies within his immediate vicinity, develop
or cause to be developed mutual aid arrangements with other political
subdivisions, and taxing districts within the state for reciprocal disaster
assistance in case of disaster too great to be dealt with unassisted. The
mutual aid shall not, however, be effective unless and until approved by each
of the political subdivisions. The agreements shall be consistent with the
state emergency operations plan and state emergency management program. In the
event of such a "disaster", as described in section
4-1-3 of this chapter, it shall be the duty of each local and
interjurisdictional department for emergency services and disaster operations
to render assistance in accordance with the provisions of such mutual aid
arrangements. (Ord., 1-10-1995)
4-1-10: FINANCING:
   A.   Funds Provided; Resources:
      1.   It is the intent of the county board and declared to be the policy
of the county that every effort shall be made to provide funds for disaster
emergencies.
      2.   It is the county board's intent that the first recourse shall be to
funds regularly appropriated to the agency. If the board chairman finds that
the demands placed upon these funds in coping with a particular disaster are
unreasonably great, he may make application for funds from the state disaster
relief fund. If monies available from the fund are insufficient, and if the
board chairman finds that other sources of money to cope with the disaster are
not available or are insufficient, he shall issue a call for immediate session
of the county board for the purpose of enacting ordinances as the board may
deem necessary to transfer and expend monies appropriated for other purposes,
or borrow monies from the United States government or other public or private
sources. If less than a quorum of the members of the board is capable of
convening in session to enact such ordinances for the transfer, expenditure or
loan of such monies, the board chairman is authorized to carry out those
decisions until such time as a quorum of the board can convene.
      3.   Nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed to limit the
board chairman's authority to apply for, administer and expend grants, gifts,
or payments in aid of disaster mitigation, prevention, preparedness, response
or recovery.
   B.   Services, Gifts, Grants And Loans: Whenever the federal or state
government, or any agency or officer thereof, or whenever any person, firm or
corporation shall offer to the county services, equipment, supplies, materials
or funds by way of gift or grant for purposes of emergency services and
disaster operations, the county, acting through the board chairman or through
its county board, may accept such offer and, upon such acceptance, may receive
such services, equipment, supplies, materials or funds on behalf of the county.
(Ord., 1-10-1995)
4-1-11: UTILIZATION OF EXISTING AGENCY, FACILITIES AND PERSONNEL:
In carrying out the provisions of this chapter, the board chairman and the
coordinator of the emergency services and disaster agency are directed to
utilize the services, equipment, supplies and facilities of existing
departments, offices and agencies of the county to the maximum extent
practicable, and the officers and personnel of all such departments, offices
and agencies are directed, upon request, to cooperate with and extend such
services and facilities to the coordinator and the emergency services and
disaster agency. (Ord., 1-10-1995)
4-1-12: TESTING WARNING DEVICES:
The testing of outdoor warning devices shall be held only on the first Tuesday
of each month at ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. (Ord., 1-10-1995)
4-1-13: ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The county agency for emergency services and disaster operations established
pursuant to this chapter, and the coordinator thereof, shall execute and
enforce such orders, rules and regulations as may be made by the governor under
authority of the Illinois emergency management agency act 1 . The county ESDA
shall have available for inspection at its office all orders, rules and
regulations made by the governor, or under his authority. (Ord., 1-10-1995;
amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
4-1-14: NONLIABILITY:
   A.   County: Neither the county, any municipal corporation within the
county, nor, except in cases of gross negligence or wilful misconduct, the
county board chairman, the coordinator, the principal executive officer of a
political subdivision, or the agents, employees, or representatives of any of
them, engaged in any emergency management response or recovery activities,
while complying with or attempting to comply with this chapter or any rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to this chapter, is liable for the death of or
any injury to persons or damage to property as a result of such activity. This
subsection does not, however, apply to political subdivisions and principal
executive officers required to maintain emergency service and disaster agencies
that are not in compliance with section 10 of the Illinois emergency management
agency act 1 , notwithstanding provisions of any other laws. This subsection
does not, however, affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which
he would otherwise be entitled under the workers' compensation act 2  or the
workers' occupational diseases act 3 , or under any pension law, and this
subsection does not affect the right of any such person to receive any benefits
or compensation under any act of congress.
   B.   Individuals:
      1.   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants a license or privilege or otherwise
permits the designation or use of the whole or any part or parts of such real
estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an actual or
impending disaster, or a mock or practice disaster response activity, together
with his successors in interest, if any, shall not be civilly liable for
negligently causing the death of or injury to any person on or about such real
estate or premises under such license, privilege or other permission, or for
negligently causing loss of or damage to the property of such person.
      2.   Any private person, firm or corporation and employees and agents of
such person, firm or corporation in the performance of a contract with, and
under the direction of, the county under the provisions of this chapter shall
not be civilly liable for causing the death of or injury to any person or
damage to any property except in the event of wilful misconduct.
      3.   Any private person, firm or corporation, and any employee or agent
of such person, firm or corporation, who renders assistance or advice at the
request of the county under this chapter during an actual or impending
disaster, shall not be civilly liable for causing the death of or injury to any
person or damage to any property except in the event of wilful misconduct. The
immunities provided in this subsection B3 shall not apply to any private
person, firm or corporation, or to any employee or agent of such person, firm
or corporation, whose act or omission caused in whole or in part such actual or
impending disaster and who would otherwise be liable therefor. (Ord., 1-10-
1995; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 20 ILCS 3305/10.
2 3. 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.
3 4. 820 ILCS 310/1 et seq.
4-1-15: LIMITATIONS OF PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to:
   A.   Interfere with the course or conduct of a private labor dispute;
except, that actions otherwise authorized by this chapter or other laws may be
taken when necessary to forestall or mitigate imminent or existing danger to
public health or safety.
   B.   Interfere with dissemination of news or comment on public affairs, but
any communications facility or organization (including, but not limited to,
radio and television stations, wire services and newspapers) may be requested
to transmit or print public service messages furnishing information or
instructions in connection with a disaster emergency.
   C.   Affect the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police forces,
firefighting forces, units of the armed forces of the United States, or of any
personnel thereof, when on active duty, but state, local and
interjurisdictional disaster emergency operations plans shall place reliance
upon the forces available for performance of functions related to emergency
management.
   D.   Limit, modify or abridge the authority of the county board chairman to
exercise any other powers vested in him under the constitution, statutes, or
common law of the state, independent of or in conjunction with any provisions
of this chapter. (Ord., 1-10-1995)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Short Title
4-2-2: Intent, Purpose And Application
4-2-3: Definitions
4-2-4: State Regulations Adopted
4-2-5: Rabies Vaccination Requirements For Dogs And Cats
4-2-6: Dogs
4-2-6-1: Registration Requirements
4-2-6-2: Female Dogs During Estrus
4-2-6-3: Vicious Dogs
4-2-6-4: Dangerous Dogs
4-2-7: Total Number Of Dogs And Cats
4-2-8: Kennels
4-2-9: Running At Large
4-2-10: Abuse And Mistreatment
4-2-11: Animal Bites; Rabies Control
4-2-12: Impoundment, Redemption And Adoption Provisions
4-2-13: Disposition Of Animals
4-2-14: Exotic Animals Prohibited
4-2-15: Educate The Public
4-2-16: Administration And Enforcement
4-2-17: Livestock Damaged By Dogs
4-2-18: Disposition Of Fees And Fines
4-2-19: Coyote Bounty
4-2-20: Fee Schedule
4-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE. (Ord.
06-009, 6-13-2006)
4-2-2: INTENT, PURPOSE AND APPLICATION:
It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to promote responsible pet
ownership, to protect animals from neglect and abuse, to protect residents from
annoyance, injury and property damage from animals, and to provide for
education in the responsible ownership of pets. This chapter does not apply to
animals or reptiles classified as wild or exotic. If wild or exotic animals are
found being kept in the county, the appropriate state official(s) will be
notified. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006)
4-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise clearly requires, as used in this chapter, the
following words and phrases have the meanings set forth:
ADMINISTRATOR 1 : A veterinarian licensed by the state of Illinois and
appointed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, or in the event a
veterinarian cannot be found and appointed pursuant to the animal control act 2
, a nonveterinarian may serve as administrator under this chapter. In the event
the administrator is not a veterinarian, the administrator shall defer to a
veterinarian regarding all medical decisions.
ANIMAL 3 : Every living creature, other than man, which may be affected by
rabies.
ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY (CENTER) OR POUND 4 : May be used interchangeably and
means any facility approved by the administrator for the purpose of enforcing
this chapter, and used as a shelter for seized, stray, homeless, abandoned, or
unwanted cats, dogs or other animals.
ANIMAL CONTROL SUPERVISOR: A person appointed to supervise wardens and operate
the department on a day to day basis under the direction of the administrator
or his duly authorized representative.
ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN 5 : Any person appointed by the administrator and
approved by the county board to perform the duties set forth in this chapter
and assigned by the administrator.
BOARD: The county board of Grundy County. The advisory, animal control and
agriculture committee has oversight responsibility for the operation of the
department and reviews all matters impacting the department before submission
to the county board 6 .
BUSINESS DAY 7 : Any day, including holidays, that the Grundy County animal
control facility is open to the public for animal reclaims.
CAT 8 : Felis catus.
CONFINED 9 : Restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his/her
agent, to an escape proof building, house, or other enclosure away from other
animals and the public.
DANGEROUS DOG 10 : A. Any individual dog, anywhere other than upon the property
of the owner or custodian of the dog and unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended by
its owner or custodian, that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would
believe poses a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical
injury or death to a person or a companion animal, or
   B.   A dog that, without justification, bites a person and does not cause
serious physical injury.
DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR 11 : A veterinarian licensed by the state of Illinois,
appointed by the administrator and approved by the county board.
DOG: All members of the family Canidae, male or female, four (4) months of age
or older, excluding animals classified as wild (e.g., wolves, coyotes) or
crossbred (e.g., coydogs).
ENCLOSURE 12 : A fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height,
forming or causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young
children, and suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other
measures that may be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of a
vicious dog within the enclosure The enclosure shall be securely enclosed and
locked and designed with secure sides, top and bottom and shall be designed to
prevent the animal from escaping from the enclosure. If the enclosure is a room
within a residence, it cannot have direct ingress from or egress to the
outdoors unless it leads directly to an enclosed pen and the door must be
locked. A vicious dog may be allowed to move about freely within the entire
residence if it is muzzled at all times.
EXOTIC ANIMAL: Any nondomesticated canine, nondomesticated feline,
nondomesticated rodent; any reptile which may pose a threat to human safety;
any wildlife, nonhuman primates; any animal requiring special state or federal
permits.
FERAL CAT 13 : A cat that:
   A.   Is born in the wild or is the offspring of an owned or feral cat and is
not socialized;
   B.   Is a formerly owned cat that has been abandoned and is no longer
socialized;
   C.   Lives on a farm.
HAS BEEN BITTEN: Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person or
other animal seized has been nipped, gripped, wounded, or pierced, and further
includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
HOUSING REQUIREMENTS: The provision of:
   A.   A fenced yard of adequate size such that the animal may move freely and
relieve himself away from the food and water supply;
   B.   Fresh clean water;
   C.   A crate or kennel large enough to permit the animal to stand, turn
around easily and to lie down comfortably; and
   D.   If chained, the animal should be in a harness and must have the ability
to move about without becoming tangled or injured, must be ten feet (10') off
the property line at the full extent of the chain, and must not pose a nuisance
by prolonged barking or by lunging at passersby.
IMPOUNDED 14 : Taken into the custody of the Grundy County animal control
facility.
INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES: The injection of an antirabies vaccine approved by
the department of agriculture of the state of Illinois.
INTACT ANIMAL: An animal that has not been spayed or neutered.
LEASH: A cord, rope, strap, or chain which shall be securely fastened to the
collar or harness of an animal and shall be of sufficient strength to keep such
animal under control.
LICENSED VETERINARIAN: A person trained by an accredited medical school who is
licensed to practice veterinary medicine by the state of Illinois.
OWNER 15 : Any person having a right of property in an animal, or who keeps or
harbors an animal, or who has an animal in his/her care, or acts as the
custodian of an animal, or who knowingly permits a dog to remain on any
premises occupied by him or her. "Owner" does not include a feral cat caretaker
participating in a trap, spay/neuter, return or release program.
PEACE OFFICER 16 : Has the meaning ascribed to it in section 2-13 of the
criminal code 17 .
PERSON 18 : Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, society,
association or other legal entity; any public or private institution; the state
of Illinois; any municipal corporation or political subdivision of the state;
or any other business unit.
PHYSICAL INJURY 19 : The impairment of physical condition.
POLICE ANIMAL 20 : An animal owned or used by a law enforcement department or
agency in the course of the department's or agency's work.
PROPER SANITATION: That fecal matter and urine are removed on a daily basis and
disposed of properly with proper disinfecting of the soiled area.
REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE: A printed form prescribed by the department for the
purpose of recording pertinent information as required by the department under
the animal control act.
RUNNING AT LARGE: Any dog found which is not secured by a leash or not confined
within the real property limits of its owner.
SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY 21 : A physical injury that creates a substantial risk
of death or that causes death, serious disfigurement, protracted impairment of
the function of any bodily organ, or requires plastic surgery.
VICIOUS DOG 22 : A dog that, without justification, attacks a person and causes
serious physical injury or death, or any individual dog that has been found to
be a dangerous dog upon three (3) separate occasions. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006)
 
Notes
1  1. 510 ILCS 5/2.01.
2  2. 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
3  3. 510 ILCS 5/2.02.
4  4. 510 ILCS 5/2.18.
5  5. 510 ILCS 5/2.03.
6  6. See also subsection
   1-5-13E1 of this code.
7  7. 510 ILCS 5/2.03a.
8  8. 510 ILCS 5/2.04a.
9  9. 510 ILCS 5/2.05.
10 1. 510 ILCS 5/2.05a.
11 2. 510 ILCS 5/2.07.
12 3. 510 ILCS 5/2.11a.
13 4. 510 ILCS 5/2.11b.
14 1. 510 ILCS 5/2.12a.
15 2. 510 ILCS 5/2.16.
16 3. 510 ILCS 5/2.17a.
17 4. 702 ILCS 5/2-13.
18 1. 510 ILCS 5/2.17.
19 2. 510 ILCS 5/2.18a.
20 3. 510 ILCS 5/2.17b.
21 4. 510 ILCS 5/2.19a.
22 5. 510 ILCS 5/2.19b.
4-2-4: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
In addition to those provisions set forth in this chapter, this chapter shall
be interpreted and enforced in accordance with provisions set forth in the
state department of agriculture publication titled "Illinois Animal Control Act
With Regulations", and any subsequent amendments or revisions thereto, three
(3) copies of which shall be on file in the office of the county clerk and the
animal control office. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006)
4-2-5: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS FOR DOGS AND CATS:
   A.   Dogs:
      1.   Vaccinations Required: Every owner of a dog four (4) months or more
of age shall have such dog inoculated against rabies by a licensed
veterinarian. Every dog shall have a second rabies vaccination within one year
of the first. Terms of subsequent vaccine administration and duration of
immunity must be in compliance with USDA licenses and vaccines used 1 .
      2.   Certificate Of Inoculation:
         a.   Evidence of rabies inoculation shall be entered on a certificate,
the form of which shall be approved by the board and which shall contain the
microchip number of the animal if it has one and which shall be signed by the
licensed veterinarian administering the vaccine.
         b.   The veterinarian immunizing or microchipping an animal shall
provide the administrator of the county in which the animal resides with a
certificate of immunization.
         c.   If a licensed veterinarian determines in writing that a rabies
inoculation would compromise an animal's health, then the animal shall be
exempt from the rabies shot requirement, but the owner must still be
responsible for the fees.
      3.   Rabies Tag: Veterinarians who inoculate a dog shall procure from the
county animal control in the county where the office is located serially
numbered tags, one to be issued with each inoculation certificate. Only one dog
shall be included on each certificate. The tag must be attached to a collar or
harness and worn at all times by the dog for which the certificate and tag have
been issued.
      4.   If a licensed veterinarian determines in writing that a rabies
inoculation would compromise an animal's health, then the animal shall be
exempt from the rabies shot requirement, but the owner must still be
responsible for the fees and for registration of the animal. (Ord. 06-009, 6-
13-2006)
   B.   Cats:
      1.   Vaccination Required: Every owner of a cat in a residential district
pursuant to the county zoning ordinance, districts AR, PR, and R, shall cause
his/her cat, four (4) months or more of age, to be inoculated against rabies by
a licensed veterinarian at such intervals as may be established by regulations
pursuant to the Illinois animal control act. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006; amd. Ord.
10-001, 1-12-2010)
      2.   Certificate Of Inoculation: Evidence of such rabies inoculation
shall be entered on a certificate, the form of which shall be approved by the
board, and which shall be signed by the licensed veterinarian administering the
vaccine. A copy of the certificate of rabies inoculation shall be provided to
the county animal control department within thirty (30) days of inoculation.
(Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 5/8.
4-2-6: DOGS:
4-2-6-1: REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Registration Required; Term: Within thirty (30) days of the rabies
inoculation, section
4-2-5 of this chapter, the owner of a dog six (6) months of age or more shall
cause said dog to be registered and shall pay a fee for such registration. The
length of the registration will be the same as the period of time for the
inoculation. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006)
   B.   Registration Fees And Waiver: Effective December 1, 2008, the fee for
registration shall be eight dollars ($8.00) for one year and sixteen dollars
fifty cents ($16.50) for three (3) years for each altered dog. The fee for
registration shall be thirty five dollars ($35.00) for one year and fifty
dollars ($50.00) for three (3) years for an unaltered dog. Registration fees
for official police K-9 dogs are hereby waived. No registration certificate
shall be issued unless the dog is vaccinated for rabies, a dog given a one year
vaccination receives a one year certificate and a dog given a three (3) year
vaccination receives a three (3) year certificate. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006;
amd. Res. 08-095, 11-11-2008)
   C.   Issuance Of Registration Certificate; Replacement Certificates: Each
registered dog will be issued a registration certificate. Replacement
registration certificates may be obtained only at the animal control center.
The fee for a replacement certificate will be four dollars ($4.00).
   D.   Disposition Of Fees: Registration fees will be handled in accordance
with subsection
4-2-12F and section
4-2-18 of this chapter. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006)
4-2-6-2: FEMALE DOGS DURING ESTRUS:
All female dogs shall be confined in an enclosure at all times during the
estrus period, to prevent breeding. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006)
4-2-6-3: VICIOUS DOGS 1 :
   A.   Information Gathered; Notice Issued: In order to have a dog deemed
"vicious", the administrator, deputy administrator, or law enforcement officer
must give notice of the infraction that is the basis of the investigation to
the owner, conduct a thorough investigation, interview any witnesses, including
the owner, gather any existing medical records, veterinary medical records or
behavioral evidence, and make a detailed report recommending a finding that the
dog is a vicious dog and give the report to the state's attorney's office and
the owner.
   B.   Complaint Filed: The administrator, state's attorney, director or any
citizen of the county in which the dog exists may file a complaint in the
circuit court in the name of the "people of the state of Illinois" to deem a
dog to be a vicious dog.
   C.   Expert Testimony: Testimony of a certified applied behaviorist, a board
certified veterinary behaviorist, or another recognized expert may be relevant
to the court's determination of whether the dog's behavior was justified. The
petitioner must prove the dog is a vicious dog by clear and convincing
evidence.
   D.   Confinement Of Animal Pending Decision: The administrator shall
determine where the animal shall be confined during the pendency of the case.
   E.   Nonvicious Determination:
      1.   A dog may not be declared vicious if the court determines the
conduct of the dog was justified because:
         a.   The threat, injury, or death was sustained by a person who at the
time was committing a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog,
or was committing a wilful trespass or other tort upon the premises or property
owned or occupied by the owner of the animal;
         b.   The injured, threatened, or killed person was abusing,
assaulting, or physically threatening the dog or its offspring, or has in the
past abused, assaulted, or physically threatened the dog or its offspring; or
         c.   The dog was responding to pain or injury, or was protecting
itself, its owner, custodian, or member of the household, kennel, or offspring.
      2.   No dog shall be deemed vicious if it bites and is a professionally
trained dog for law enforcement or guard duties.
   F.   Vicious Determination; Conditions And Procedure: If the burden of proof
has been met, the court shall deem the dog to be a vicious dog. Vicious dogs
shall not be classified in a manner that is specific as to breed.
      1.   Spaying/Neutering; Microchipping; Confinement: If a dog is found to
be a vicious dog, the dog shall be spayed or neutered within ten (10) days of
the finding, at the expense of its owner, and microchipped, if not already, and
is subject to enclosure. A dog found to be a vicious dog shall not be released
to the owner until the administrator or an animal control warden approves the
enclosure.
      2.   Sale Requires Court Approval: No owner or keeper of a vicious dog
shall sell or give away the dog without court approval.
      3.   Relocation; Notice To County: Whenever an owner of a vicious dog
relocates, he or she shall notify both the administrator of the Grundy County
animal control and the administrator of the county animal control where he or
she has relocated.
      4.   Confinement Requirements: It shall be unlawful for any person to
keep or maintain any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog unless the
dog is kept in an enclosure. The only times that a vicious dog may be allowed
out of the enclosure are:
         a.   If it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary
care for the dog;
         b.   In the case of any emergency or natural disaster where the dog's
life is threatened; or
         c.   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction;
provided, that the dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a leash not
exceeding six feet (6') in length, and shall be under the direct control and
supervision of the owner or keeper of the dog or muzzled in its residence.
         d.   If the animal control agency has custody of the dog, the agency
may file a petition with the court requesting that the owner be ordered to post
security. The security must be in an amount sufficient to secure payment of all
reasonable expenses expected to be incurred by the animal control agency or
animal shelter in caring for and providing for the dog pending the
determination. Reasonable expenses include, but are not limited to, estimated
medical care and boarding of the animal for thirty (30) days. If security has
been posted in accordance with this subsection, the animal control agency may
draw from the security the actual costs incurred by the agency in caring for
the dog.
         e.   Upon receipt of a petition, the court must set a hearing on the
petition, to be conducted within five (5) business days after the petition is
filed, the petitioner must serve a true copy of the petition upon the
defendant.
         f.   If the court orders the posting of security, the security must be
posted with the clerk of the court within five (5) business days after the
hearing. If the person ordered to post security does not do so, the dog is
forfeited by the operation of law and the animal control agency must dispose of
the animal. (Source: PA 93-548, eff. 8-19-03.)
      5.   Impoundment Of Unconfined Dog; Euthanasia:
         a.   Any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog and which is not
confined to an enclosure shall be impounded by the administrator, or an animal
control warden or the law enforcement authority having jurisdiction in such
area.
         b.   If the owner of the dog has not appealed the impoundment order to
the thirteenth judicial circuit court of Grundy County within fifteen (15)
working days, the dog may be euthanized.
         c.   Upon filing a notice of appeal, the order of euthanasia shall be
automatically stayed pending the outcome of the appeal. The owner shall bear
the burden of timely notification to the county animal control agency in
writing.
   G.   Exemptions:
      1.   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the
physically handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police owned dogs are exempt from
this section, provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs while the dog is
performing duties as expected.
      2.   To qualify for exemption under this subsection, each such dog shall
be currently inoculated against rabies in accordance with section
4-2-5 of this chapter.
      3.   It shall be the duty of the owner or keeper of such exempted dog to
notify the administrator of changes of address.
      4.   In the case of a sentry or guard dog, the owner shall keep the
administrator advised of the location where such dog will be stationed.
      5.   The Administrator shall provide Police and Fire Departments with a
categorized list of such exempted dogs and shall promptly notify such
departments of any address changes reported to him or her.
   H.   Vicious Dog Determination: If a dog is found to be a vicious dog, the
owner shall pay a one hundred dollar ($100.00) public safety fine to be
deposited into the Pet Population Control Fund, the dog shall be spayed or
neutered within ten (10) days of the finding at the expense of its owner and
microchipped, if not already, and the dog is subject to enclosure. If an owner
fails to comply with these requirements, the Animal Control Agency shall
impound the dog and the owner shall pay a five hundred dollar ($500.00) fine
plus impoundment fees to the Animal Control Agency impounding the dog. The
Judge has the discretion to order a vicious dog be euthanized. A dog found to
be a vicious dog shall not be released to the owner until the Administrator, an
Animal Control Warden, or the Director approves the enclosure. No owner or
keeper of a vicious dog shall sell or give away the dog without approval from
the Administrator or court. Whenever an owner of a vicious dog relocates, he or
she shall notify both the Administrator of County Animal Control where he or
she has relocated and the Administrator of County Animal Control where he or
she formerly resided. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 5/16.
4-2-6-4: DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   Investigation And Determination Of Dangerous Dog: After a thorough
investigation, including: sending within ten (10) days of the Administrator
becoming aware of the alleged infraction, notifications to the owner of the
alleged infractions, the fact of the initiation of an investigation, and
affording the owner an opportunity to meet with the Administrator prior to the
making of a determination; gathering of any medical or veterinary evidence;
interviewing witnesses; and making a detailed written report, an Animal Control
Warden, Deputy Administrator, or Law Enforcement Agent may ask the
Administrator, or his or her designee, to deem a dog to be "dangerous". No dog
shall be deemed a "dangerous dog" unless shown to be a dangerous dog by a
preponderance of evidence. The Administrator may impound the dog during the
period of investigation and the owner shall pay an administrative fee of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for those services rendered upon the conclusion of
the investigation. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006; amd. Ord. 2017-010, 8-8-2017)
   B.   Expert Testimony: Testimony of a certified applied behaviorist, a board
certified veterinary behaviorist, or another recognized expert may be relevant
to the determination of whether the dog's behavior was justified pursuant to
the provisions of this section.
   C.   Notice To Owner: The owner shall be sent immediate notification of the
determination by registered or certified mail that includes a complete
description of the appeal process.
   D.   Nondangerous Determination: A dog shall not be declared dangerous if
the Administrator, or his or her designee, or the Director determines the
conduct of the dog was justified because:
      1.   The threat was sustained by a person who at the time was committing
a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog; or was committing a
wilful trespass or other tort upon the premises or property occupied by the
owner of the animal.
      2.   The threatened person was abusing, assaulting, or physically
threatening the dog or its offspring.
      3.   The injured, threatened, or killed companion animal was attacking or
threatening to attack the dog or its offspring.
      4.   The dog was responding to pain or injury or was protecting itself,
its owner, custodian, or a member of its household, kennel, or offspring.
   E.   Dangerous Determination; Conditions And Procedures 1 :
      1.   Spaying/Neutering; Microchipping; Training; Supervision: If deemed
dangerous, the Administrator, or his or her designee: a) shall order the dog's
owner to pay a fifty dollar ($50.00) public safety fine to be deposited into
the Pet Population Control Fund, b) shall order the dog to be spayed or
neutered within fourteen (14) days at the owner's expense and microchipped, if
not already, and c) shall order one or more of the following provisions as
deemed appropriate under the circumstances and necessary for the protection of
the public:
         a.   Evaluation of the dog by a certified applied behaviorist, a board
certified veterinary behaviorist, or another recognized expert in the field,
and completion of training or other treatment as deemed appropriate by the
expert. The owner of the dog shall be responsible for all costs associated with
evaluations and training ordered under this subsection E1a; or
         b.   Direct supervision by an adult eighteen (18) years of age or
older whenever the animal is on public premises. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006)
      2.   Enclosure, Muzzle, Special Collar, Residence Sign: The Administrator
may order any or all of the following safety requirements required of the
owner:
         a.   The dog be confined to an enclosure as defined in section
4-2-3 of this chapter in the same manner as described for a vicious dog.
         b.   The dog shall wear a safety muzzle and be leashed under the
control of the owner whenever away from the home premises of the owner.
         c.   The dog shall wear a special collar to identify its "dangerous"
status as designated by the Administrator when away from its home premises.
         d.   The owner shall post a sign as designated by the Administrator in
a visible location as warning to any guests or strangers approaching the
owner's home. (Ord. 2017-010, 8-8-2017)
      3.   Leash 2 : It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or recklessly
permit any dangerous dog to leave the premises of its owner when not under
control by leash or other recognized control method.
      4.   The Grundy County Animal Control Agency has the right to impound a
dangerous dog if the owner fails to comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
      5.   Exemptions 3 :
         a.   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for
the physically handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police owned dogs are exempt
from this section, provided an attack or injury to a person occurs while the
dog is performing duties as expected.
         b.   To qualify for exemption under this section, each such dog shall
be currently inoculated against rabies in accordance with section
4-2-5 of this chapter and performing duties as expected.
         c.   It shall be the duty of the owner of the exempted dog to notify
the Administrator of changes of address. In the case of a sentry or guard dog,
the owner shall keep the Administrator advised of the location where such dog
will be stationed.
         d.   The Administrator shall provide Police and Fire Departments with
a categorized list of the exempted dogs, and shall promptly notify the
departments of any address changes reported to him or her 4 .
      6.   Appeals 5 :
         a.   The owner of a dog found to be a dangerous dog by the
Administrator pursuant to this chapter may file a complaint against the
Administrator in the Circuit Court, within thirty five (35) days of receipt of
notification of the determination, for a de novo hearing on the determination.
The proceeding shall be conducted as a civil hearing pursuant to the Illinois
Rules of Evidence and the Code of Civil Procedure, including the discovery
provisions. After hearing both parties' evidence, the court may make a
determination of dangerous dog if the Administrator meets his or her burden of
proof of clear and convincing evidence. The final order of the Circuit Court
may be appealed pursuant to the civil appeals provisions of the Illinois
Supreme Court rules.
         b.   Until the order has been reviewed and at all times during the
appeal process, the owner shall comply with the requirements set forth by the
Administrator or the court.
         c.   At any time after a final order has been entered, the owner may
petition the Circuit Court to reverse the designation of dangerous dog. (Ord.
06-009, 6-13-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 5/15.1.
2 2. 510 ILCS 5/15.2.
3 1. 510 ILCS 5/15.1.
4 2. 510 ILCS 5/15.1.
5 3. 510 ILCS 5/15.3.
4-2-7: TOTAL NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS:
   A.   Residential Zones: No household shall have more than three (3) dogs, or
more than six (6) cats, or a total of more than three (3) dogs and six (6)
cats, that are four (4) months of age or older, per residential lot in Zoning
Districts AR, PR, and R of the County zoning ordinance. Each animal shall be
vaccinated and registered as required in this chapter.
   B.   Agricultural Zones: No property zoned A shall have more than six (6)
dogs, or more than six (6) cats, or a combination of more than six (6) dogs or
six (6) cats, that are four (4) months of age or older, unless the property has
a special use permit for a kennel meeting the requirements of the County zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006; amd. Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
4-2-8: KENNELS 1 :
   A.   Compliance With Zoning Regulations: Any and all kennels shall meet the
requirements of the County zoning ordinance 2 . Any licensed kennel operator,
animal shelter, pet shop or animal dealer who fails to comply with the proper
County zoning requirements shall be subject to the requirements of this
section.
   B.   Annual Inspection: Kennels shall be subject to, at a minimum, annual
inspection by the County Animal Control Department to ensure compliance with
this chapter and other County and State regulations.
   C.   Required Information: All kennels and all persons selling dogs or cats
or keeping registries of dogs or cats shall cooperate and provide information
to the Administrator as required, including sales, number of litters, and
ownership of dogs and cats, and are required to pay a litter registration fee
for each litter. (Ord. 04-005, 1-13-2004, eff. 1-13-2004)
   D.   Revocation Of Special Use Permit; Grounds: The Animal Control
Department may recommend that a special use permit be revoked for any one or
more of the following conditions: (Ord. 04-005, 1-13-2004, eff. 1-13-2004; amd.
Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
      1.   Failure to permit an animal control warden to inspect the premises
for sanitary conditions, proper ventilation, adequate nutrition, humane care
and treatment, including required rabies vaccinations and registrations for all
animals.
      2.   Failure to provide adequate sanitation and housing requirements for
the animals.
      3.   Failure to provide required vaccinations and registrations for the
animals.
   E.   Violations; Consequences:
      1.   Failure to comply with this section within fifteen (15) calendar
days of receiving notice of violation of this section from an animal control
warden shall result in the issuance of a ticket for violation of this chapter.
      2.   The court, upon finding evidence of a violation of this chapter,
shall order removal by an animal control warden or the appropriate State
authority of all animals until the violation is corrected.
      3.   The owner of the animals shall be ordered to pay the cost of housing
the animals until the violation is corrected.
   F.   Exemptions: This section does not apply to feral cats. (Ord. 04-005, 1-
13-2004, eff. 1-13-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 5/3.
  2. See section
2 8-2-5-14 of this Code and the definition of "kennel" in section
  8-16-2-1 of this Code.
4-2-9: RUNNING AT LARGE 1 :
   A.   Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to allow or cause an animal
to a run at large when it is off or outside the premises of its owner, unless
it is controlled as follows:
      1.   For a dog, by a line or leash not more than eight feet (8') in
length; provided, that the line or leash is held by a competent person who has
the capacity to control the dog.
      2.   For a cat, by a locally adopted ordinance that defines the restraint
to be placed on the cat.
      3.   The animal is confined within a vehicle being driven, parked or
stopped.
   B.   Possession Of Running At Large Animals:
      1.   Owner Consent Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, without
the knowledge and consent of the owner, to retain possession of any running at
large animal for more than forty eight (48) hours without first reporting such
possession to the Animal Control Center and providing his or her name, address,
a description of the animal, and a statement of the circumstances under which
possession of the animal was obtained.
      2.   Surrender Required: It shall be unlawful for any person who obtains
possession of a running at large animal to refuse to surrender such animal to
an animal control warden when requested to do so.
   C.   Apprehension Of Dogs 2 : Any dog found running at large contrary to the
provisions of this chapter may be apprehended and impounded. For this purpose,
the Administrator shall utilize any existing or available animal control
facility. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 5/9.
2 1. 510 ILCS 5/9.
4-2-10: ABUSE AND MISTREATMENT:
   A.   Cruelty; Inhumane Treatment: No person shall cruelly treat, inhumanely
kill, or cause to be cruelly treated or inhumanely killed, or knowingly allow
to be cruelly treated or inhumanely killed any animal by beating, torturing,
burning, tormenting, mutilating, shooting, starving, or overworking his or her
own or another person's animal. Violations of this subsection shall be punished
pursuant to section 70/16 of the Humane Care for Animals Act 1 .
   B.   Inadequate Care And Treatment; Fights: No person shall fail to provide
adequate food, water or shelter. The use of an animal to fight other animals
for sport or pleasure will be considered inadequate care of animals and is
prohibited under the terms of this chapter.
   C.   Abandonment: No person shall knowingly abandon any animal whether
healthy, old, maimed, infirm, sick or disabled on his or her own property
without daily care or by abandonment off the owner's premises where it may
suffer injury, hunger, exposure or become a public charge. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-
2006)
 
Notes
1 2. 510 ILCS 70/16.
4-2-11: ANIMAL BITES; RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Investigation Of Animal Bites: The Administrator, or his or her
designee(s), shall investigate all bites by dogs or other animals.
   B.   Quarantine:
      1.   Noninoculated Animals: In the event a noninoculated animal bites a
person, said animal shall be quarantined at the County Animal Control Center,
or at any other approved location, for a period of ten (10) days.
      2.   Inoculated Animals: Inoculated animals may be quarantined in the
home of the owner if the bite is below the shoulders and, after inspection by
the Administrator or designee, the facilities are deemed satisfactory for
confinement.
   C.   Veterinarian Requirements: A veterinarian shall report the clinical
condition of the animal immediately, with the confirmation in writing to the
Administrator or, if the Administrator is not a veterinarian, the Deputy
Administrator, within twenty four (24) hours after the animal is presented for
examination, giving the owner's name, address, the date of confinement, the
breed, description, age and sex of the animal, and whether the animal has been
spayed or neutered, on appropriate forms approved by the department. The
Administrator or, if the Administrator is not a veterinarian, the Deputy
Administrator, shall notify the attending physician or responsible health
agency. At the end of the confinement period, the veterinarian shall submit a
written report to the Administrator or, if the Administrator is not a
veterinarian, the Deputy Administrator, advising him or her of the final
disposition of the animal on appropriate forms approved by the department. When
evidence is presented that the animal was inoculated against rabies within the
time prescribed by law, it shall be confined in a house, or in a manner which
will prohibit it from biting any person for a period of ten (10) days, if a
licensed veterinarian adjudges such confinement satisfactory. The department
may permit such confinement to be reduced to a period of less than ten (10)
days. At the end of the confinement period, the animal shall be examined by a
licensed veterinarian.
   D.   Others Responsible: Any person having knowledge that any person has
been bitten by an animal shall notify the Administrator or, if the
Administrator is not a veterinarian, the Deputy Administrator, promptly. It is
unlawful for the owner of the animal to euthanize, sell, give away, or
otherwise dispose of any animal known to have bitten a person, until it is
released by the Administrator or, if the Administrator is not a veterinarian,
the Deputy Administrator, or his or her authorized representative. It is
unlawful for the owner of the animal to refuse or fail to comply with the
reasonable written or printed instructions made by the Administrator or, if the
Administrator is not a veterinarian, the Deputy Administrator, or his
authorized representative. If such instructions cannot be delivered in person,
they shall be mailed to the owner of the animal by regular mail. Any expense
incurred in the handling of the animal under this section and section
4-2-12 of this chapter shall be borne by the owner.
   E.   Police Dogs Biting: When a person has been bitten by a police dog that
is currently vaccinated against rabies, the police dog may continue to perform
its duties for the peace officer or law enforcement agency and any period of
observation of the police dog may be under the supervision of a peace officer.
The supervision shall consist of the dog being locked in a kennel, performing
its official duties in a police vehicle, or remaining under the constant
supervision of its police handler. (Source: PA 93-548, eff. 8-19-2003.) (Ord.
06-009, 6-13-2006)
4-2-12: IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND ADOPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Animal Control Centers: There are hereby created animal control
centers, which shall be established in such number and at such locations as may
be designated by the Board. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006)
   B.   Impoundment Of Animals:
      1.   Authority To Impound: It shall be the duty of the Administrator, or
his or her designee(s), to impound in an approved animal control center any
animal over which possession is obtained under the provisions of this chapter;
furthermore, it shall be the duty of the Administrator to microchip any dog or
cat impounded not already possessing a microchip for which service a fee of
twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be charged to the owner or adopter and added to
all other costs hereinafter designated. (Ord. 2018-022, 9-11-2018)
      2.   Notice Of Impoundment 1 : When any animal has been impounded in an
animal control center, the supervisor shall give written notice to the owner,
if known, at such owner's last known address. Testimony of the Administrator,
or his or her authorized agent, who mails such notice shall be evidence of the
receipt of such notice by the owner of the animal.
   C.   Responsibility For Impoundment Costs:
      1.   The owner is liable for the cost of impoundment when the animal is
impounded for any of the following reasons:
         a.   Failure to provide sufficient quantity of good quality, wholesome
food and water.
         b.   Failure to provide shelter sufficient for the animal to maintain
its body heat and functions without drawing upon the necessary constituents of
its own body.
         c.   Failure to provide veterinary care when needed to prevent
suffering.
         d.   Failure to provide humane care and treatment.
         e.   Failure to redeem any impounded animal whose ownership can be
proven by the Animal Control Department.
         f.   The animal is left unattended inside vehicles when the outdoor
temperatures are dangerous to the animal's health.
         g.   The animal is captured outside of the owner's property running at
large.
      2.   The owner of an impounded animal who fails to claim such animal
within the time limits specified in subsection
4-2-13B of this chapter is responsible for all expenses incurred, when proof of
ownership is established by the department.
   D.   Redemption Of Impounded Animals 2 :
      1.   The owner of any impounded animal may redeem such animal upon
compliance with the following conditions:
         a.   Presenting proof of current registration and current inoculation
of the dog or cat; or
         b.   Obtaining and paying for the registration and inoculation of the
dog, if required; and
         c.   Payment for all expenses incurred during the impoundment,
apprehension, or confinement.
         d.   Compliance with the County Zoning Ordinance.
         e.   Paying for any fines or fees required for violation of this
chapter.
         f.   Paying a twenty five dollar ($25.00) public safety fine to be
deposited into the County Pet Population Control Fund; the fine shall be waived
if it is the animal's first impoundment and the owner has the animal spayed or
neutered within fourteen (14) days.
         g.   The payments required for redemption under this section shall be
in addition to any other penalties involved under this chapter, the Animal
Control Act and the Illinois Public Health and Safety Animal Population Control
Act.
      2.   No animal shall be released to an individual representing a rescue
group unless the group has been licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture or incorporated as a not for profit organization.
   E.   Adoption Of Animals: Any person desiring to adopt an animal offered for
adoption by the supervisor may do so upon meeting the requirements set forth in
section 11 of the State Animal Control Act 3 .
   F.   Records Maintained: The supervisor shall maintain records of all
animals apprehended and/or impounded. Such records shall be maintained for at
least one year following disposal of each animal and shall contain at least the
following information:
      1.   A complete description, including photograph, if available, of the
animal. At a minimum, the description must include color, size, species, breed
and sex of the animal and a description of any tags.
      2.   The manner and date of acquisition of the animal.
      3.   The manner and date of disposal of the animal.
      4.   The name and address of the person adopting or purchasing the
animal.
      5.   A record of all fees and/or fines received in relation to the
animal.
      6.   The reason for disposal of the animal and the manner used. (Ord. 06-
009, 6-13-2006)
   G.   Animals Not Redeemed: When not redeemed by the owner, agent, or
caretaker, a dog or cat must be scanned for a microchip. If a microchip is
present, the registered owner must be notified. After contact has been made or
attempted, dogs or cats deemed adoptable by the animal control facility shall
be offered for adoption, or made available to a licensed humane society or
rescue group. If no placement is available it shall be humanely dispatched
pursuant to the Humane Euthanasia in Animal Shelters Act. Failure to fulfill
the terms of the agreement shall result in seizure and impoundment of the
animal and any offspring by the animal pound or shelter, and any monies which
have been deposited shall be forfeited and submitted to the Pet Population
Control Fund on a yearly basis. This Act shall not prevent humane societies
from engaging in activities set forth by their charters; provided, they are not
inconsistent with provisions of this Act and other existing laws. No animal
shelter or animal control facility shall release dogs or cats to an individual
representing a rescue group, unless the group has been licensed or has a foster
care permit issued by the Illinois Department of Agriculture or is a
representative of a not for profit out of State organization. The department
may suspend or revoke the license of any animal shelter or animal control
facility that fails to comply with the requirements set forth in this section
or that fails to report its intake and euthanasia statistics each year.
(Source: PA 92-449, eff. 1-1-2002; 93-548, eff. 8-19-2003.) (Res. 2019-017, 3-
12-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 5/10.
2 1. 510 ILCS 5/11.
3 2. 510 ILCS 5/11.
4-2-13: DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Animals That Bite: Any animal that has bitten a human being and cannot
be confined by its owner, if known, or by an animal control warden, may be
destroyed by any law enforcement or animal control warden.
   B.   Surrendered Or Impounded Animals: Any animal surrendered to the animal
control center by its owner, or any animal impounded under the provisions of
this chapter, which has not bitten a person, shall, unless sooner redeemed, be
held at the center for a period of at least three (3) days, including
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, if the owner of said dog or cat is unknown. If
the owner of said animal is known or can be reasonably determined, the animal
will be held for a period of at least seven (7) days including Saturdays,
Sundays and holidays. The supervisor may dispose of an impounded animal, not
redeemed, by either:
      1.   Placing the animal in an adoptive home; or
      2.   Selling the animal; or
      3.   Destroying the animal in a humane manner. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006)
4-2-14: EXOTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
Due to concerns for the health, welfare and safety of both the citizens of the
county and of "exotic animals", as defined in this chapter, no person is
permitted to own, harbor or care for exotic animals. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006)
4-2-15: EDUCATE THE PUBLIC:
The administrator shall promote and assist in programs for education in
responsible pet ownership in cooperation with civic groups, professional
organizations and schools in the county. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006)
4-2-16: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Administration And Enforcement Officials:
      1.   Administrator: There is hereby created the position of administrator
whose duties shall be to administer and enforce this chapter and who shall be
appointed by the county board.
      2.   Animal Control Wardens: The administrator shall appoint, with the
approval of the board, animal control wardens to assist in carrying out and
enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Enforcement: The administrator and animal control wardens shall aid
in the enforcement of the humane care for animals act and have the ability to
impound animals and apply for security posting for violation of that act.
   B.   Entry Powers 1 : For the purpose of making inspections hereunder, the
administrator, or his or her authorized representative, or any law enforcement
officer may enter upon private premises to apprehend a straying dog or other
animal, a dangerous or vicious dog or other animal, or an animal thought to be
infected with rabies; provided, that the entry shall not be made into any
building that is a person's residence. If, after request therefor, the owner of
the dog or other animal shall refuse to deliver the dog or other animal to the
officer, the owner shall be in violation of this chapter.
   C.   Notice Of Violation: Service of a notice of violation may be made by
the administrator, the supervisor, an animal control warden, or the sheriff by
leaving a copy of the notice with the owner of the animal, or by leaving a copy
of the notice at the owner's usual place of abode with some member of the
family of the age of thirteen (13) years or upwards and informing that person
of the contents thereof, or by sending a copy of the notice in a sealed
envelope with postage fully prepaid and addressed to the owner at his or her
usual place of abode.
   D.   Liability:
      1.   Any municipality or political subdivision allowing feral cat
colonies and trap, sterilize and return programs to help control cat
overpopulation shall be immune from criminal liability and shall not be civilly
liable, except for a wilful and wanton misconduct, for damages that may result
from a feral cat.
      2.   Any veterinarian or animal shelter who in good faith contacts the
registered owner of a microchipped animal shall be immune from criminal
liability and shall not, as a result of his or her acts or omissions, except
for wilful and wanton misconduct, be liable for civil damages.
      3.   Any veterinarian who sterilizes feral cats and any feral cat
caretaker who traps cats for a trap, sterilize, and return program shall be
immune from criminal liability and shall not, as a result of his or her acts or
omissions, except for a wilful and wanton misconduct, be liable for civil
damages.
      4.   Any animal shelter worker who microchips an animal shall be immune
from criminal liability and shall not, as a result of his or her acts or
omissions, except for wilful and wanton misconduct, be liable for civil
damages.
   E.   Violations; Penalties:
      1.   No Registration Or Inoculation; False Tags Or Documents; Obstructing
Enforcement:
         a.   Any person paying a fine for no registration or no inoculation
must have the registration or inoculation done within twenty four (24) hours of
payment of the fine, or another citation will be written for the same
violation. The fine for a dog running at large shall be fifty dollars ($50.00)
for any one offense 2  plus a twenty five dollar ($25.00) public safety fine,
twenty dollars ($20.00) of which shall be deposited into the county pet
population control fund and five dollars ($5.00) shall be retained in the
county animal control fund. (Total fine $75.00.) A dog found roaming at large
contrary to the provisions of this chapter a second or subsequent time must be
spayed or neutered within thirty (30) days after being reclaimed unless already
spayed or neutered. Failure to comply shall result in impoundment of the
animal.
         b.   Any person violating or aiding in or abetting the violation of
any provision of this chapter; or counterfeiting or forging any certificate,
permit, or tag; or making any misrepresentation in regard to any matter
prescribed by this chapter; or resisting, obstructing, or impeding the
administrator or any authorized officer in enforcing this chapter; or refusing
to produce for inoculation any dog in his or her possession; or who removes a
tag from a dog for purposes of destroying or concealing its identity, is guilty
of a class C misdemeanor for a first offense and, for a subsequent offense, is
guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
         c.   Each day a person fails to comply constitutes a separate offense.
         d.   The state's attorney shall cause appropriate proceedings to be
instituted in the proper courts without delay and to be prosecuted in the
manner provided by law.
      2.   Vicious Dogs: If the owner of a vicious dog subject to enclosure: a)
fails to maintain or keep the dog in an enclosure or fails to spay or neuter
the dog within the time period prescribed; and b) the dog inflicts serious
physical injury upon any other person or causes the death of another person;
and c) the attack is unprovoked in a place where such person is peaceably
conducting himself or herself and where such person may lawfully be, the owner
shall be guilty of a class 4 felony, unless the owner knowingly allowed the dog
to run at large or failed to take steps to keep the dog in an enclosure, then
the owner shall be guilty of a class 3 felony. The penalty provided in this
subsection D2 shall be in addition to any other criminal or civil sanction
provided by law.
      3.   Dangerous Dog: If the owner of a dangerous dog knowingly fails to
comply with any order regarding the dog and the dog inflicts serious physical
injury on a person or a companion animal, the owner shall be guilty of a class
A misdemeanor. If the owner of a dangerous dog knowingly fails to comply with
any order regarding the dog and the dog kills a person, the owner shall be
guilty of a class 4 felony.
   F.   Actions To Recover Penalties:
      1.   Notice Of Violation: Actions to recover penalties for violations may
be instituted by serving a notice of violation upon the owner by the
administrator, the supervisor, an animal control warden, or the sheriff.
      2.   Liability For Damages: If a dog or other animal without provocation
attacks or injures any person or other animal who is peaceably conducting
himself in any place where he may lawfully be, or if a dog pursues, chases,
worries, wounds, injures or kills any sheep, goats, cattle, horses, mules,
poultry, ratites, or swine belonging to another, the owner of such dog or other
animal is liable in damages to such person for the full amount of the injury
sustained, and the court may order said restitution.
      3.   Complaint Filed: Actions to recover penalties for violations of any
of the provisions of this chapter may also be instituted by the filing of a
verified complaint in the county circuit court signed by the administrator or
his or her authorized agent, or the county state's attorney.
      4.   Other Procedures: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed so as to prevent the county, or any of its duly authorized agents,
from instituting any other form of action at law or in equity to enforce the
provisions, or to prevent or abate violations of this chapter. (Ord. 06-009, 6-
13-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 5/17.
2 1. 55 ILCS 5/5-1071.
4-2-17: LIVESTOCK DAMAGED BY DOGS:
   A.   Authority To Kill: Any owner seeing his or her livestock, poultry, or
equidae being injured, wounded, or killed by a dog not accompanied by or not
under the supervision of its owner may kill such dog 1 .
   B.   Owner Reimbursed For Damages:
      1.   Qualifications For Reimbursement: Any owner having livestock,
poultry, or equidae killed or injured by a dog shall, according to the
provisions of this chapter and upon filing claim and making proper proof, be
entitled to receive reimbursement for such losses from the animal control fund,
provided he or she is a resident of the county and such injury or killing is
reported to the administrator within twenty four (24) hours after such injury
or killing occurs, and makes affidavit stating the number of such animals or
poultry killed or injured, the amount of damages and the owner of the dog
causing such killing or injury, if known.
      2.   Substantiation Of Damages; Records And Reports: The damages referred
to in this section shall be substantiated by the administrator through prompt
investigation and by not less than two (2) witnesses. The administrator shall
determine whether the provisions of this section have been met and shall keep a
record in each case of the names of the owners of the animals or poultry, the
amount of damages proven, and the number of animals or poultry killed or
injured. The administrator shall file a written report with the county
treasurer as to the right of an owner of livestock, poultry, or equidae to be
paid out of the animal control fund, and the amount of such damages claimed.
      3.   Amount Of Reimbursement: The county treasurer shall, on the first
Monday in March of each calendar year, pay to the owner of the animals or
poultry the amount of damages to which he or she is entitled. The county board
establishes that the current market value of livestock, poultry, or equidae on
the day the animal was harmed shall be paid to the owner of the animal. The
value shall be determined by the administrator by determining the grade of the
animal and the market value pursuant to the commodities market on the day of
the incident. This value shall be reviewed, modified if necessary, and approved
by the county board. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 5/18.
4-2-18: DISPOSITION OF FEES AND FINES:
Any fees and fines collected by the county as a result of operation of the
department will be disposed of as follows:
   A.   Animal Control Fund: All registration fees collected shall be remitted
to the county treasurer who shall place the monies in an animal control fund.
This fund shall be set up for the purpose of paying costs of the animal control
program. All fees collected shall be used for the payment of claims for the
loss of livestock or poultry as set forth in section 19 of the Illinois animal
control act 1  and section
4-2-17 of this chapter. At the close of the county fiscal year, any funds
remaining in this fund shall revert to the county general fund.
   B.   Population Fund: All fees and fines collected and required to be placed
in the county pet population control fund shall be remitted to the county
treasurer who shall place the monies in the population fund.
   C.   General Fund: All other fees and fines received under the provisions of
this chapter shall be paid over to the county treasurer and placed in the
county general fund. (Ord. 06-009, 6-13-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 5/19.
4-2-19: COYOTE BOUNTY:
   A.   A bounty of fifteen dollars ($15.00) is offered for any coyote killed
within the boundaries of Grundy County with said bounty being available for the
duration of the available funding. (Ord. 2011-01, 1-11-2011)
   B.   Both ears of the coyote must be delivered to Grundy County animal
control, Grundy County, Illinois, as proof that a coyote was eliminated in
Grundy County. The person delivering the coyote ears shall sign an affidavit on
file in the county and incorporated herein by reference. No bounty shall be
paid unless and until such affidavit is signed and notarized. (Ord. 2011-01, 1-
11-2011; amd. Ord. 2012-034, 12-11-2012)
   C.   Anyone killing a coyote in Grundy County is subject to all the laws and
regulations of the state of Illinois and must comply with all hunting and
shooting requirements as put forth by the state of Illinois.
   D.   Should funding for the program run out of money during the county's
fiscal year, those interested in collecting the bounty, will have to wait for
additional revenues to be obtained, before any future bounties can be paid.
   E.   The bounty program will be reviewed annually for its effectiveness. The
county has the right to terminate this program due to lack of funding or
effectiveness. (Ord. 2011-01, 1-11-2011)
4-2-20: FEE SCHEDULE:
Impoundment:                   $50.00 (Fee increases $10.00 each time an animal
                               is brought in to Animal Control for impoundment)
Board Fee:                     $19.00
Euthanasia:                    $125.00
After-Hours Fee:               $150.00
Microchip:                     $20.00
Rabies shot:                   $19.00
Board Fee for bite impound:    $22.00
Vet Visit (per RO):            $45.00
Vet Mileage fee (per trip):    $27.50
Dangerous Dog:
   Investigation:           $200.00
   Medium Collar:           $17.00
   Large Collar:            $20.00
   X-Large Collar:          $25.00
   Dangerous Dog Sign:      $17.00
   Public Safety Fine:      $50.00
Low Risk Specimen:             $140.00
Microchip for low cost clinic: $15.00
Rabies Tag Fees:
   1-year altered:          $15.00
   1-year puppy:            $15.00
   1-year unaltered:        $45.00
   3-year altered:          $35.00
   3-year unaltered:        $60.00
   Senior Discount 65+:
      1-year altered:    $10.00
      3-year altered:    $20.00
   Replacement tag:         $4.00
Owners Drop Off Fee:
   Per Animal:              $20.00
   Per Litter:              $25.00
Adoption Fees:
   Adoption:                $30.00
   Rabies Vaccine:          $19.00
   Microchip:               $20.00
   Feline:
      Neuter:            $60.00
      Spay:              $80.00
   Canine ($30 extra for each 10 lbs over 60 lbs):
      Neuter:            $120.00
      Spay:              $150.00
 
(Ord. 2014-015, 9-9-2014; amd. Ord. 2017-012, 9-12-2017; Ord. 2022-002, 2-8-
2022)
CHAPTER 3
ABANDONED, INOPERABLE VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Abandonment Prohibited; Removal
4-3-3: Notice To Sheriff Of Abandoned Vehicle; Vehicle Towed
4-3-4: Procedures For Ascertaining Owner
4-3-5: Reclamation, Sale Or Disposal Of Abandoned Vehicle
4-3-6: Inoperable Vehicles
4-3-7: Exemptions From Provisions
4-3-8: Nonliability Of Police And Towing Service
4-3-9: Penalties
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any and all motor vehicles or other vehicles that have not
been moved or used for seven (7) consecutive days or more and are apparently
deserted and unclaimed.
ANTIQUE VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle or other vehicle twenty five (25) years of
age or older which has not fallen into a state of disrepair, which is capable
of being moved under its own power and which is being held, kept or retained as
an item of personal property having historical value.
HIGHWAY: Any street, alley, or public way within the county of Grundy.
INOPERABLE VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least
seven (7) days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed or on which
the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so
treated or neglected that the said vehicle is incapable of being lawfully
driven upon the highways of the state of Illinois under its own power.
"Inoperable vehicle" shall not include a motor vehicle which has been rendered
temporarily incapable of being driven under its own power lawfully upon the
highways in the state, provided said condition is temporary and for the purpose
of performing ordinary service or repairs thereon within a period not greater
then seven (7) days from the day on which it first became inoperable. (Ord., 7-
11-1989)
4-3-2: ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED; REMOVAL:
   A.   Abandonment And Removal; Highways:
      1.   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part
thereof on any highway in unincorporated Grundy County is unlawful and subject
to penalties as set forth herein.
      2.   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned or left
unattended or rendered inoperable on a highway in unincorporated Grundy County
for ten (10) hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized
by order of the county sheriff.
      3.   When an abandoned, unattended or inoperable motor vehicle or other
vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in relation to the
highway or its physical appearance or presence is impeding traffic, its
immediate removal from the highway by a towing service may be authorized by
order of the county sheriff. (Ord., 7-11-1989)
   B.   Abandonment And Removal From Other Than Highways: The abandonment of a
motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on private or public
property, other than a highway, in view of the general public, anywhere in the
county is unlawful. A motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof so
abandoned on private property may be authorized for removal by or upon the
order of the county sheriff, after a waiting period of seven (7) days or more
has expired or may be removed immediately if determined to be a hazardous
dilapidated motor vehicle. (Ord., 7-11-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Removal Costs To Owner: When a vehicle removed from either public or
private property is authorized by order of the county sheriff, the owner of the
vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs and other expenses of the
disposition or storage thereof whether incurred by the county or the county
sheriff. (Ord., 7-11-1989)
4-3-3: NOTICE TO SHERIFF OF ABANDONED VEHICLE; VEHICLE TOWED:
   A.   Notice To Sheriff: When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor
vehicle or other vehicle comes into the temporary possession or custody of a
person in unincorporated Grundy County not the owner of the vehicle, such
person shall immediately notify the county sheriff's department when the
vehicle is within the unincorporated area of Grundy County.
   B.   Order To Tow: Upon receipt of such notification, the county sheriff
shall authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the
abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle.
   C.   Records Kept:
      1.   Towing Service: The towing service will safely keep the towed
vehicle and its contents and maintain a record of the tow, as hereinafter set
forth for law enforcement agencies, until the vehicle is claimed by the owner
or any other person legally entitled to possession thereof, or until it is
disposed of as provided in this chapter. (Ord., 7-11-1989)
      2.   Sheriff: When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be
towed away, the county sheriff shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle
towed, listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade name,
manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number and
license plate year and number displayed and registration sticker year and
number on the vehicle. The record shall also include the date and hour of tow,
location towed from, location towed to, reason for towing and the name of the
officer authorizing the tow. (Ord., 7-11-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
4-3-4: PROCEDURES FOR ASCERTAINING OWNER:
   A.   When the county sheriff does not know the identity of the registered
owner or other legally entitled person, he will cause the motor vehicle
registration records of the state of Illinois to be searched by a directed
communication to the secretary of state for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information. The county sheriff shall cause the stolen motor
vehicle files of the Illinois state police to be searched by a directed
communication to the Illinois state police for the stolen or wanted information
on the vehicle. When the Illinois state police files are searched with negative
results, the information contained in the national crime information center
(NCIC) files will be searched by the Illinois state police. The information
determined from these records searches will be used by the sheriff's department
in sending a notification by certified mail to the owner or legally entitled
person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be made and
setting forth public sale information. Notification shall be sent no later than
ten (10) business days after the date the county sheriff impounds or authorizes
the impounding of a vehicle; provided, that if the county sheriff is unable to
determine the identity of the registered owner or other person legally entitled
to ownership of the impounded vehicle within a ten (10) business day period
after impoundment, then notification shall be sent no later than two (2) days
after the date the identity of the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to ownership of the impounded vehicle is determined. Exceptions to a
notification by certified mail to the registered owner and other legally
entitled persons are set forth in subsection
4-3-5B of this chapter. (Ord., 7-11-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the
registration files of the state of Illinois or from the registration files of a
foreign state, if applicable, the county sheriff shall notify the Illinois
state police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle's owner or other person
legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by
the Illinois state police will be immediately forwarded to the county sheriff
for notification of owner as herein set forth. (Ord., 7-11-1989)
4-3-5: RECLAMATION, SALE OR DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLE:
   A.   Reclamation By Owner: At any time before a motor vehicle or other
vehicle is sold at public sale or disposed of as provided herein, the owner or
other person legally entitled to its possession may reclaim the vehicle by
presenting to the sheriff's department proof of ownership or proof of the right
to possession of the vehicle. No vehicle shall be released to the owner or
other person under this subsection until all towing, storage and processing
charges have been paid.
   B.   Sale Or Disposal Of Unclaimed Vehicles:
      1.   Vehicles Seven Years Or Newer:
         a.   Public Sale; Notice to Owner:
            (1)   Public Sale: Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed
motor vehicle or other vehicle, seven (7) years of age or newer, remains
unclaimed by the registered owner or other person legally entitled to its
possession for a period of thirty (30) days after notice has been given as
provided herein, the county sheriff shall cause said vehicle to be sold at
public sale to a person licensed as an automotive parts recycler, rebuilder or
scrap processor or the towing officer which towed the vehicle.
            (2)   Notice Of Sale:
               (A)   Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted
in a conspicuous place for at least ten (10) days prior to the sale on the
premises where the vehicle has been impounded.
               (B)   At least ten (10) days prior to the sale, the county
sheriff shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by
certified mail to the registered owner or other person known by the county
sheriff or towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of the
vehicle.
               (C)   Such notice shall state the time and place of sale and
shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps
must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
               (D)   In those instances where the certified notification
specified herein has been returned by the postal authorities to the sheriff's
department due to the addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address
obtained from the registration record of the state, the sending of a second
certified notice will not be required.
         b.   Owner Unknown: When the identity of the registered owner or other
person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed
vehicle of seven (7) years or newer cannot be determined by any means provided
for in this chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed of
in the manner authorized by this chapter without notice to the registered owner
or other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
      2.   Vehicles Older Than Seven Years: When an abandoned vehicle of more
than seven (7) years of age is impounded as specified by this chapter or when
any such vehicle is towed at the request or with the consent of the owner or
operator and is subsequently abandoned, it will be kept in custody or storage
for a minimum of ten (10) days for the purpose of determining the identity of
the owner or other legally entitled persons and contacting of the registered
owner or other legally entitled persons by the U.S. mail, public service or in
person for a determination of disposition, and an examination of the Illinois
state police stolen motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At
the expiration of the ten (10) day period, without the benefit of disposition
information being received from the registered owner or other legally entitled
persons, the county sheriff will authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk
or salvage.
      3.   Hazardous Dilapidated Vehicles: Any hazardous dilapidated motor
vehicle impounded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, whether impounded
at a public facility or on the property of a private towing service, shall be
kept in custody for a period of ten (10) days for the purpose of determining
the identity of the registered owner or lien holder and contacting such owner
or lien holder, if known, by regular U.S. mail. At the expiration of the ten
(10) day period, without benefit of disposition information being received from
the registered owner or lien holder, the sheriff's department will authorize
the disposal of the vehicle as junk.
      4.   Additional Notice Requirements: If an abandoned, lost, stolen, or
unclaimed vehicle displays dealer plates, notice under subsections B1 and B2 of
this section shall be sent to both the dealer and the registered owner,
lienholder, or other legally entitled persons.
   C.   Record Of Reclamation, Sale Or Disposal: When a motor vehicle or other
vehicle in the custody of the sheriff's department is reclaimed by the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, or when the vehicle is sold
at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this chapter, a report
of the transaction will be maintained by the county sheriff for a period of one
year from the date of the sale or disposal.
   D.   Proceeds Of Sale: When a vehicle located within the unincorporated area
of Grundy County is authorized to be towed away by the county sheriff and
disposed of as set forth in this chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or
disposition, after the deduction of towing, storage and processing charges,
shall be deposited in the county treasury. (Ord., 7-11-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
4-3-6: INOPERABLE VEHICLES:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Any inoperable motor vehicle, whether on public or
private property, in view of the general public is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and shall not remain in view of the general public for more that seven
(7) days from the time at which it first became inoperable. (Ord., 7-11-1989)
   B.   Notice To Owner: The county zoning officer shall notify the record or
registered owner of any such vehicle and, in the event that any such vehicle is
located on private property, the record owner of the private property and the
occupant thereof, or any person under whose control said automobile may be,
that if said inoperable motor vehicle is not disposed of and safely removed
from the public view within a period of seven (7) days, said vehicle will be
towed and said owner, occupant or person in control of said inoperable motor
vehicle will be guilty of a petty offense and subject to expenses of towing,
storing and disposing of said vehicle and otherwise guilty of a petty offense
and subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Said notice shall be served by certified mail. (Ord., 7-11-
1989; amd. 2004 Code)
4-3-7: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any motor vehicle that is kept within a
building when not in use, to operable historic vehicles over twenty five (25)
years of age, or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a business legally
engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles. (Ord., 7-11-1989; amd.
2004 Code)
4-3-8: NONLIABILITY OF POLICE AND TOWING SERVICE:
   A.   Any county law enforcement officer or towing service owner, operator or
employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damages in any action
brought by the registered owner, former registered owner, or his legal
representative, or any other person legally entitled to the possession of a
motor vehicle or other vehicle when the vehicle has been processed and sold or
disposed of as provided by this chapter. (Ord., 7-11-1989)
   B.   A towing service, and any of its officers or employees, that removes or
tows a vehicle as a result of being directed to do so by a county law
enforcement officer shall not be held to answer or be liable for injury to,
loss of, or damages to any real or personal property that occurs in the course
of the removal or towing of a vehicle or its contents on a limited access
highway in a designated incident management program that uses fast lane
clearance techniques as defined by the state department of transportation.
(2004 Code)
4-3-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   General Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined two hundred dollars ($200.00). Each
day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable hereunder as such. (Ord., 7-11-1989;
amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Failure To Pay Fines, Charges And Costs: Whenever any resident of the
state fails to pay any fine, charge, or cost imposed for a violation of section
4-3-2 of this chapter, the county clerk may notify the secretary of state, on a
report prescribed by the secretary, and the secretary shall prohibit the
renewal, reissue, or reinstatement of the resident's driving privileges until
the fine, charge, or cost has been paid in full. The county clerk shall provide
notice to the driver, at the driver's last known address as shown on the
court's records, stating that the action will be effective on the forty sixth
day following the date of the above notice if payment is not received in full
by the court of venue. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GANG CONTROL
SECTION:
4-4-1: Graffiti
4-4-2: Curfew Regulations
4-4-3: Loitering Relating To Controlled Substances
4-4-4: Disorderly Conduct
4-4-5: Gang Related Activities
4-4-6: Responsibility Of Parents Or Guardians
4-4-1: GRAFFITI:
   A.   Definition: For purposes of this section, "graffiti" shall be defined
as any sign, symbol, marking, drawing, name, initial, word, diagram, sketch,
picture or letter placed without the express written permission of the owner
upon the real or personal property of said owner. (Ord., 7-12-1994)
   B.   Nuisance Declared: Graffiti in public view is hereby declared to be a
nuisance as set forth in the ordinances of the county and subject to the
provisions of county ordinances regarding nuisances and abatement thereof 1 .
   C.   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful outside the corporate limits of a
municipality: (Ord., 7-12-1994; amd. 2004 Code)
      1.   For any person to place graffiti upon the real or personal, public
or private property of another.
      2.   For the owner and/or occupant of fixed real or personal property
which is in public view to place or give permission for the placement of any
graffiti on such property without having first obtained a properly issued sign
permit.
      3.   For any person to possess, while in any public building or public
facility or while on private property, a spray paint container, paint, ink, or
marking pen which contains a nonwater soluble fluid, brush, applicator, or any
other material for marking, scratching or etching with the intent to use such
material in violation of subsections C1 and/or C2 of this section.
      4.   For anyone under the age of sixteen (16) to purchase or possess any
spray paint container, paint, ink, or marking pen which contains a nonwater
soluble fluid unless under the supervision of a parent, legal guardian or
teacher.
   D.   Penalties:
      1.   The penalty for violation of subsection C1 of this section shall be
a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). In addition to said fine, the offender may be ordered by the
court to pay restitution to the property owner for the costs of restoring the
property to its state prior to the application of graffiti.
      2.   The penalty for violation of subsection C2 of this section shall be
a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00), and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      3.   The penalty for violation of subsection C3 or C4 of this section
shall be a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord., 7-12-1994)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/47-5 et seq.
4-4-2: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
Notwithstanding anything contained to the contrary in existing county
ordinances, the following shall apply with respect to curfew 1 :
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions:
      1.   It is unlawful for a person at least sixteen (16) years of age but
less than eighteen (18) years of age to be present at or upon any public
assembly, building, place, street or highway at the following times unless
accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal guardian or teacher or unless
engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of the state authorize a
person less than eighteen (18) years of age to perform:
         Between 12:01 A.M. and 6:00 A.M. Saturday.
         Between 12:01 A.M. and 6:00 A.M. Sunday.
         Between 11:00 P.M. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00 A.M. on
the following day.
      2.   It is unlawful for a person less than sixteen (16) years of age to
be present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway
between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following
day, seven (7) days a week, unless accompanied and supervised by a parent or
legal guardian, or unless engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of
the state authorize a person less than sixteen (16) years of age to perform, or
unless in attendance at, or while traveling directly home from, a school,
church or a not for profit community organization sponsored activity.
   B.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: It is unlawful for any parent,
legal guardian or other person to knowingly permit a person in his custody or
control to violate subsection A1 or A2 of this section.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any person convicted of violating any provision of
this section shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less
than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00); except,
that neither a person who has been made a ward of the court under the juvenile
court act 2 , nor that person's legal guardian, shall be subject to any fine.
In addition to or instead of the fine imposed by this subsection, the court may
order a parent, legal guardian, or other person convicted of a violation of
subsection B of this section to perform community service as determined by the
court; except, that the legal guardian or a person who has been made a ward of
the court under the juvenile court act may not be ordered to perform community
service. The dates and times established for the performance of community
service by the parent, legal guardian, or other person convicted of a violation
of subsection B of this section shall not conflict with the dates and times
that the person is employed in his or her regular occupation. (Ord., 7-12-1994;
amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 555/1.
2 1. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
4-4-3: LOITERING RELATING TO CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES:
   A.   It shall be a violation of this section for a person to loiter in a
public place in a manner and under circumstances manifesting the purpose of
illegally using, possessing, transferring or selling any cannabis or controlled
substance. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether such a purpose is manifested are:
      1.   The person repeatedly attempts to stop or engage in conversation
with passersby, whether such passersby are on foot or in a motor vehicle or
other form of transportation, for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting, or procuring another to illegally possess, transfer, or buy any
cannabis or controlled substances; or
      2.   The person repeatedly passes to or receives from passersby, whether
such passersby are on foot or in a motor vehicle or other form of
transportation, money, objects or written material for the purposes of
inducing, enticing, soliciting or procuring another to illegally possess,
transfer or buy any cannabis or a controlled substance.
   B.   A person shall not have violated this section unless he demonstrates
expressly or implicitly a specific intent to induce, entice, solicit, or
procure another to illegally possess, transfer or buy cannabis or a controlled
substance. (Ord., 7-12-1994)
4-4-4: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   Definition: A person commits "disorderly conduct" when he knowingly
fails to obey a lawful order of dispersal by a person known by him to be a
peace officer under circumstances where three (3) or more persons are
committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity, which acts are
likely to cause substantial harm or serious inconvenience, annoyance or alarm.
   B.   Violation; Penalty: Any person convicted of violating this section
shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord., 7-12-
1994)
4-4-5: GANG RELATED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Definitions:
    GANG RELATED ACTIVITIES: Those activities which are conducted with the
intent to increase the gang's size or dominance, or with the intent to provide
the gang with an advantage in the criminal market sector, or with the intent to
obstruct justice, or with the intent to otherwise directly or indirectly cause
any benefit or gain to or for the gang.
   STREET GANG: Any combination, confederation, alliance, network, conspiracy,
or understanding, or other similar conjoining, in law or in fact, of three (3)
or more persons with an established hierarchy that, through its members or
through the agency of any member, engages in criminal activity. (Ord., 7-12-
1994; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Nuisance Declared: It is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any
person, whether alone or in consort with others, to engage in gang related
activities in a dwelling or other building. Such person, whether he be the
owner, agent or occupant of any such dwelling or building, shall be deemed
guilty of maintaining a public nuisance and may be penalized as hereinafter
provided.
   C.   Abatement Of Nuisance: Whenever such a nuisance exists or is found to
exist within the county, the court is hereby authorized to cause the same to be
abated in such manner as the sheriff may direct or as otherwise authorized by
the laws of the state.
   D.   Penalties: Any person violating this section shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Furthermore, if said person is not the owner of the building being used for
gang related activity, the court may order the offender to pay restitution to
the owner for the costs of any damage caused by such gang related activity,
unless the owner knew or should have known that such activity was taking place
and negligently or wilfully failed to notify the county of the occurrence of
such activities. (Ord., 7-12-1994)
4-4-6: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS OR GUARDIANS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires, the following terms have the meanings ascribed to them 1 :
    LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a minor
by a circuit court of the state, but does not include a person appointed
guardian, or given custody, of a minor under the Illinois juvenile court act of
1987 2 .
   MINOR: A person who is above the age of eleven (11) years, but not yet
nineteen (19) years of age.
   B.   Liability Of Parent Or Guardian: The parent or legal guardian of any
unemancipated minor who resides with such parent or legal guardian is liable
for actual damages for the wilful or malicious acts of such minor which cause
injury to a person or property, including damages caused by a minor who has
been adjudicated a delinquent for violation of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/21-1.3. Reasonable attorney fees may be awarded to a plaintiff that is not a
governmental unit in any action under this section.
   C.   Recovery Amount Limited:
      1.   No recovery under this section may exceed two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) actual damages for each person or legal entity for each
occurrence of such wilful or malicious acts by the minor causing injury, in
addition to taxable court costs and attorney fees. In determining the damages
to be allowed in an action under this section for personal injury, only
medical, dental and hospital expenses and expenses for treatment by Christian
Science practitioners and nursing care appropriate thereto may be considered.
      2.   This section shall not affect the recovery of damages in any other
cause of action where the liability of the parent or legal guardian is
predicated on a common law basis.
   D.   Exemptions From State Regulations: Section 12-107 of the Illinois code
of civil procedure, as now or hereafter amended, is not applicable to judgments
obtained under this section. (Ord., 7-12-1994; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 740 ILCS 115/1.
2 2. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 5
TOBACCO PRODUCTS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Tobacco Vendors
4-5-3: Underage Persons
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
LUNCH WAGON: A mobile vehicle designed and constructed to transport food and
from which food is sold to the general public.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm partnership, corporation, company, limited
liability company, association, joint venture or any employee, manager,
officer, or agent thereof.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Shall include cigarettes, cigars, smokeless or chewing
tobacco, pipe tobacco, snuff, and any substance containing either smoking herbs
or tobacco leaf.
TOBACCO VENDOR: All persons engaged in the business of selling tobacco products
in the county of Grundy. (Ord., 11-10-1998; amd. 2004 Code)
4-5-2: TOBACCO VENDORS:
   A.   Underage Persons:
      1.   Prohibited Sales And Delivery: It shall be unlawful for any person,
including any tobacco vendor, to sell, offer for sale, give away or deliver
tobacco products to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
      2.   Proof Of Identification: If any person contemplating the sale or
furnishing of tobacco products believes or has reason to believe that a sale or
delivery of tobacco products is prohibited because of the age of the
prospective recipient, he or she shall, before making such sale or delivery,
demand presentation of some form of positive identification, containing proof
of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his or her official
duties.
      3.   Signs Posted: Signs informing the public of the age restrictions
provided for herein shall be posted by every licensee at or near every display
of tobacco products and on or upon every vending machine which offers tobacco
products for sale. Each such sign shall be plainly visible and shall state:
         THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE IS
PROHIBITED BY LAW.
   B.   Distributions On Public Ways Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
tobacco vendor or any person in the business of selling or otherwise
distributing, promoting or advertising tobacco products, or any employee or
agent of any such tobacco vendor or person, in the course of such tobacco
vendor's or person's business, to distribute, give away, or deliver tobacco
products free of charge to any person on any right of way. (Ord., 11-10-1998)
   C.   Permitted Vending Machine Locations: Tobacco products listed herein may
be sold through a vending machine only in the following locations:
      1.   Factories, businesses, offices, private clubs, and other places not
open to the general public.
      2.   Places to which minors under eighteen (18) years of age are not
permitted access.
      3.   Places where alcoholic beverages are sold and consumed on the
premises.
      4.   Places where the vending machine is under the direct supervision of
the owner of the establishment or an employee over eighteen (18) years of age.
The sale of tobacco products from a vending machine under direct supervision of
the owner or an employee of the establishment is considered a sale of tobacco
products by that person. As used in this subsection B4, "direct supervision"
means that the owner or employee has an unimpeded line of sight to the vending
machine.
      5.   Places where the vending machine can only be operated by the owner
or an employee over the age of eighteen (18) either directly or through a
remote control device if the device is inaccessible to all customers.
   D.   Sales From Lunch Wagons: The sale or distribution, at no charge, of
cigarettes from a lunch wagon engaging in any sales activity within one
thousand feet (1,000') of any public or private elementary or secondary school
grounds is prohibited. (2004 Code)
   E.   Penalty: Any person, firm, business or corporation who violates any of
the provisions of this section shall, in addition to such other relief as the
law may afford, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 11-10-1998; amd. 2004 Code)
4-5-3: UNDERAGE PERSONS:
   A.   Purchase By, False Identification Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to purchase tobacco products,
or to misrepresent his identity or age, or to use any false or altered
identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products.
   B.   Possession By Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years to possess any tobacco products; provided, that the
possession by a person under the age of eighteen (18) years who is under the
direct supervision of the parent or guardian of such person in the privacy of
the parent's or guardian's home shall not be prohibited.
   C.   Penalties: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this
section shall, in addition to such other relief as the law may afford, be
punishable by a penalty of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and, at
the discretion of the court, shall be ordered to complete a program of
education regarding the dangers of tobacco use. (Ord., 11-10-1998)
CHAPTER 6
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS DISCHARGES
SECTION:
4-6-1: Recitals Incorporated
4-6-2: Definitions
4-6-3: Discharges Restricted
4-6-4: Response Authority
4-6-5: Removal Costs And Charges
4-6-6: Defenses
4-6-7: Penalties
4-6-1: RECITALS INCORPORATED:
The recitals set out in ordinance 01-013, which ordinance is on file in the
office of the county clerk, are incorporated herein as if fully set forth.
(Ord. 01-013, 6-12-2001; amd. 2004 Code)
4-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
COSTS: All costs and expenses of the county incurred with the emergency
response to, prevention, cleanup or abatement of the actual or potential
release of hazardous materials and shall include, but not be limited to: actual
labor costs of the county and law enforcement or other emergency response
organization personnel involved in the emergency response to, prevention,
cleanup or abatement of the actual or potential discharge of hazardous
materials (including workers' compensation benefits, fringe benefits, pension
costs and administrative overhead); cost of equipment operation, damage and
loss; cost of materials obtained directly by the county; and cost of any
contract labor and materials.
EMERGENCY RESPONSE ORGANIZATIONS: Grundy County emergency response
organizations shall include, but are not limited to, the emergency management
agency 1 , sheriff's department, health department, highway department,
coroner's office or any other organization that assists in bringing the
incident to a close.
FACILITY: Any building, structure, installation, equipment, pipe or pipeline
including, but not limited to, any pipe into a sewer or publicly owned
treatment works, well, pond, lagoon, impoundment, ditch, landfill, storage
container, tank, motor vehicle, truck trailer, rolling stock or aircraft; also,
any site or area where a hazardous material has been deposited, stored,
disposed of, abandoned, placed or otherwise come to be located.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or materials which, due to quantity, form,
concentration, location or other characteristic, is determined by the county
emergency management coordinator or other emergency response organization
personnel to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health or
safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the environment,
which are toxic, flammable, corrosive, explosive, carcinogenic or radioactive
including, but not limited to, any substance or material which is designated a
hazardous material pursuant to the "Hazardous Materials Transportation Act" (49
USCA section 1801 et seq.) or any other federal or state law or regulation.
This definition shall also include substances believed to be hazardous, but
later determined to be nonhazardous, through the efforts of emergency actions.
MUTUAL AID: Any action taken by the county pursuant to an intergovernmental
agreement.
PERSON: Any individual, business, firm, partnership, corporation, association,
trust, estate, joint venture or other legal entity, or their legal
representative, agent or assign.
RELEASE: Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, escaping, emptying,
discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping or disposing of a hazardous material
into or upon any land, air, water, well, stream, sewer or pipe so that such
hazardous material or any constituent thereof may enter the environment.
REMEDIAL ACTION: Any action consistent with permanent remedy taken instead of,
or in addition to, removal actions in the event of a release or threatened
release of hazardous materials into the environment to prevent or minimize the
release of hazardous materials so that they do not migrate to cause a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health, property or the
environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, such actions at the
location of the release such as storage, confinement, perimeter protection
using dikes, trenches or ditches, clay cover, neutralization, cleanup of
released hazardous materials or contaminated materials, recycling or reuse,
diversion, destruction, segregation of reactive wastes, repair or replacement
of leaking containers, collection of leachate and runoff, onsite treatment or
incineration, provision of alternate water supplies, and any monitoring
reasonably required to assure that such actions protect the public health and
welfare and the environment. This also includes any actions deemed necessary by
the emergency management agency coordinator or other emergency response
organization personnel to prevent a discharge of hazardous materials from
occurring at the scene of an accident or incident to which an emergency
response organization has been summoned.
REMOVAL: The cleanup or removal of released hazardous materials from the
environment; such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to monitor, assess
and evaluate the release or threat of release of hazardous materials, the
disposal of removed material, or the taking of such action as may be necessary
to prevent, minimize or mitigate damage to public health or welfare of the
environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, security fencing,
provision of alternative water supplies, and temporary evacuation of threatened
individuals.
RESPONSE: Any removal or remedial action by personnel and/or equipment of the
county or other emergency service providers and contractors utilized by the
county in relation to any accident, incident or location within the boundaries
of the county where hazardous materials are being used, stored, transported,
manufactured or dumped, and such accident or incident has created an increased
potential for discharge of hazardous materials beyond the normal use, storage,
transportation or manufacture of the products or incidents where an actual
discharge has occurred. (Ord. 01-013, 6-12-2001; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1 of this title.
4-6-3: DISCHARGES RESTRICTED:
   A.   No person shall cause, threaten or allow the release of hazardous
materials into the environment, unless such release is in accordance with an
appropriate permit granted by the Illinois environmental protection agency or
other state or federal agency having primary jurisdiction over the release, and
such release is in such place and manner as will not create a substantial
present or potential hazard to human health, property or the environment.
   B.   It shall be unlawful, whether intentional or unintentional, for any
person to discharge any hazardous material into the environment or create a
condition or situation where the potential for a release requires emergency
response by the county, except as otherwise provided and exempted in section
4-6-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 01-013, 6-12-2001)
4-6-4: RESPONSE AUTHORITY:
   A.   The county emergency response organizations and the ranking emergency
response organization personnel or law enforcement officer first on the scene
shall have authority to respond to any release or threatened release of
hazardous materials within the county or affecting the public water supply,
wells or sewage treatment works located within the county. This authority
includes, but is not limited to, remedial action and removal.
   B.   The ranking emergency response organization personnel or law
enforcement officer first on the scene shall have primary authority as the
incident commander to respond to any release or threatened release of hazardous
materials as described above. The ranking emergency response organization
personnel or law enforcement officer first on the scene shall report any
release or threatened release of hazardous materials to all appropriate
federal, state and local public health, safety and emergency agencies as soon
as possible following any substantial release of hazardous materials. The
ranking emergency response organization personnel or law enforcement officer
first on the scene shall relinquish his response authority at such time, if
any, as the federal, state or local public health, safety or emergency agency
having primary jurisdiction over the release or threatened release has assumed
responsibility for response to the release or threatened release.
   C.   The ranking emergency response organization personnel or law
enforcement officer first on the scene during such time as response authority
is vested in him, shall be authorized to request county personnel and equipment
through the county emergency operations center, if activated, or the emergency
management agency to take such remedial or removal action as he may deem
necessary or appropriate to respond to the release or threatened release of
hazardous material, including the use of material and in accordance with any
mutual aid box alarm system (MABAS) agreements.
   D.   All responding personnel shall cooperate with and operate under the
direction of the ranking emergency response organization personnel or law
enforcement officer first on the scene or other person then exercising response
authority under this chapter until such time as the person exercising such
response authority has determined that the response is complete or
responsibility for response is assumed by the federal, state or local public
health, safety or emergency agency having primary jurisdiction over the release
or threatened release.
   E.   The person exercising response authority under this chapter shall
coordinate and/or cooperate with other federal, state or local public health,
safety or emergency agencies involved in response to the release or threatened
release of hazardous materials. (Ord. 01-013, 6-12-2001)
4-6-5: REMOVAL COSTS AND CHARGES:
   A.   Liability For Costs:
      1.   Notwithstanding any other provision or rule of law, and subject only
to the defenses set forth in section
4-6-6 of this chapter, the following persons shall be jointly and severally
liable for all costs of removal and remedial action incurred by the county as a
result of a release or threatened release of a hazardous material:
         a.   The owner and operator of a facility or vessel from which there
is a release or substantial threat of release of a hazardous material.
         b.   Any person who, at time of disposal, transport, storage or
treatment of a hazardous material, owned or operated the facility or vessel
used for such disposal, transport, treatment or storage from which there was a
release or substantial threat of a release of any such hazardous material.
         c.   Any person who, by contract, agreement, or otherwise has arranged
with another party or entity for transport, storage, disposal or treatment of
hazardous materials owned, controlled or possessed by such person at a facility
owned or operated by another party or entity from which facility there is a
release or substantial threat of a release of such hazardous materials.
         d.   Any person who accepts or accepted any hazardous materials for
transport to disposal, storage or treatment facilities or sites from which
there is a release or a substantial threat of release of such hazardous
substances.
      2.   Any person who is liable for the release or threatened release of a
hazardous material who fails without sufficient cause to pay for or provide
removal or remedial action upon or in accordance with a notice and request of
the county, or in accordance with any order of any court having jurisdiction on
the matter, shall be liable to the county for any costs incurred by the county
as a result of such failure to provide or take such removal or remedial action,
together with the costs of any removal or remedial action taken by the county
in accordance with this chapter, and all attorney fees and related legal costs
incurred in connection therewith.
   B.   Charges Established: Charges for removal or remedial action when
rendered by the county or any agency in accordance with any mutual aid
agreement shall be as follows:
      1.   The costs of vehicles as determined by the responding agency, but in
no case less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) per hour per vehicle; and
      2.   The cost of all personnel, including any overtime cost to the county
or to any responding agency, incurred as a result of the removal or remedial
action, but in no case less than ten dollars ($10.00) per hour; and
      3.   The cost or replacement of all materials and equipment used,
expended, depleted, destroyed or removed from service in accordance with
federal, state or local ordinance as a result of the mitigation or containment
operations by or at the request of the county or any responding agency; and
      4.   The costs of service and/or goods provided by a private or public
entity which are used, expended, depleted or destroyed as a result of the
response.
   C.   Payment Of Charges; Delinquencies: The person or persons, firm,
corporation or other entity responsible for and liable for the costs of such
hazardous materials incident shall submit payment for the invoice to the county
emergency management agency within thirty (30) days of receipt of the invoice.
Failure of the responsible party to pay the invoice in full within thirty (30)
days shall cause the county to seek enforcement of the debt through collection,
or civil lawsuit, or property lien, or any combination of the foregoing. The
responsible party shall assume all costs for the enforcement of the debt,
including court costs and attorney fees, in addition to the original charges
and any interest that may have accrued. (Ord. 01-013, 6-12-2001)
4-6-6: DEFENSES:
   A.   There shall be no liability under section
4-6-5 of this chapter for a person otherwise liable who can establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that the release or substantial threat of release
of hazardous materials and the damages resulting therefrom were caused solely
by:
      1.   An act of nature over which he or she had no control;
      2.   An act of war; or
      3.   Any combination of the foregoing.
   B.   There shall further be no liability under this chapter for acts of
emergency response personnel, law enforcement personnel, or other county
personnel who respond to such release or threatened release of hazardous
materials and who aggravate such situation or actually create a new or further
release of hazardous materials in the course of responding to that situation.
(Ord. 01-013, 6-12-2001)
4-6-7: PENALTIES:
In addition to the costs established in section
4-6-5 of this chapter, any person who is liable for the release or threatened
release of a hazardous material shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter
and shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed for each day on which a violation occurs or continues. Where
such violation is found to be the result of wilful and/or wanton conduct, or
gross negligence, or the person committing such violation attempts to evade
responsibility hereunder by leaving the scene of the occurrence, or by other
means, that person shall be subject to a fine as provided for in this section
or a fine in an amount equal to three (3) times the costs, including attorney
fees and legal costs, for which he is liable under subsection
4-6-5A2 of this chapter, whichever is greater. (Ord. 01-013, 6-12-2001; amd.
2004 Code)
CHAPTER 7
9-1-1 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Surcharge Imposed
4-7-3: Referendum
4-7-4: Exemptions
4-7-5: Surcharge Effective Date
4-7-6: Accounting And Collection Charge
4-7-7: Remittance
4-7-8: Credit Against Surcharge Due
4-7-9: Recovery Of Surcharge Due
4-7-10: Emergency Telephone System Board Powers And Duties
4-7-11: Emergency Telephone System Fund; Expenditures
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
NETWORK CONNECTION: The number of voice grade communication channels directly
between a subscriber and a telecommunications carrier's public switched network
without the intervention of any other telecommunications carrier's switched
network which would be required to carry the subscriber's interpremises
traffic.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate,
partnership, association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation,
municipal corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court
engaged in the business of transmitting messages by means of electricity.
TRANSMITTING MESSAGES: Shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in section
8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code. (Ord., 12-13-1988)
4-7-2: SURCHARGE IMPOSED:
A surcharge is hereby imposed, subject to the provisions of section
4-7-3 of this chapter, upon all telecommunication carriers engaged in the
business of transmitting messages by means of electricity originating within
the corporate limits of Grundy County and terminating within the state of
Illinois for funding a "9-1-1" emergency telephone system. (Ord., 12-13-1988)
4-7-3: REFERENDUM:
   A.   A referendum shall be placed by the Grundy County clerk on the April
1989 ballot for all legal voters residing in Grundy County to vote upon the
following question:
      Shall the County of Grundy impose a surcharge of up to sixty-five (65)
cents per month per network connection on telecommunication carriers, which
surcharge expense will be added to the monthly bill you receive for telephone
or telecommunications charges for the purpose of installing (or improving) a 9-
1-1 emergency telephone system?
               Yes          No
   B.   If a majority of the votes cast upon the question are in favor thereof,
a surcharge is hereby imposed at a rate of five cents ($0.05) per month per in
service "network connection", as herein defined. A network connection shall not
be deemed to be in service where a subscriber's account is uncollectible.
(Ord., 12-13-1988)
4-7-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The Grundy County clerk shall provide any telecommunication carrier subject to
the surcharge with a certified list of those network connections assigned to
the county to be exempt from imposition of the surcharge. The certified list
may be revised by the county on sixty (60) days' prior written notice provided
to the telecommunication carriers. (Ord., 12-13-1988)
4-7-5: SURCHARGE EFFECTIVE DATE:
The surcharge shall be imposed on the first day of the month following the
expiration of ninety (90) days from the date the county clerk certifies to any
of the telecommunication carriers who are subject to the surcharge that the
referendum referred to in section
4-7-3 of this chapter has passed. (Ord., 12-13-1988)
4-7-6: ACCOUNTING AND COLLECTION CHARGE:
In lieu of the telecommunications carriers imposing a three percent (3%)
accounting and collection charge on its subscribers as permitted under the act,
each telecommunication carrier is hereby authorized and instructed to recover
said accounting and collection charge by deducting three percent (3%) from the
amount of surcharge otherwise due and owing the county prior to remittance
under section
4-7-7 of this chapter. (Ord., 12-13-1988)
4-7-7: REMITTANCE:
   A.   Every telecommunication carrier shall remit to the county treasurer the
amount of surcharge due and owing for each calendar month within ninety (90)
days following expiration of each month to which the surcharge applies, net of
any network or other "9-1-1" or sophisticated "9-1-1" system charge then due
the particular telecommunication carrier as shown on an itemized bill and the
three percent (3%) accounting and collection charge described in section
4-7-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Simultaneously with the remittance described in subsection A of this
section each telecommunication carrier shall make a return to the county
treasurer for the period to which the remittance applies stating as follows:
      1.   The name of the telecommunication carrier.
      2.   The telecommunication carrier's principal place of business.
      3.   The number of network connections to which the surcharge applies.
      4.   The amount of surcharge due.
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require. (Ord., 12-13-1988)
4-7-8: CREDIT AGAINST SURCHARGE DUE:
If it shall appear that amount of surcharge has been paid which was not due
under the provisions of this chapter, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any
surcharge due, or to become due, under this chapter from the telecommunication
carrier who made the erroneous payments; provided that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be
so credited. Ninety (90) days prior notice shall be given to the emergency
telephone system board on any credit against a surcharge due. (Ord., 12-13-
1988)
4-7-9: RECOVERY OF SURCHARGE DUE:
No action to recover any amount of surcharge due under the provisions of this
chapter shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such
amount. (Ord., 12-13-1988)
4-7-10: EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM BOARD POWERS AND DUTIES:
The powers and duties of the emergency telephone system board shall be as
follows:
   A.   Planning a 9-1-1 system.
   B.   Coordinating and supervising the implementation, upgrading, or
maintenance of the system, including the negotiation, execution or other acts
related to the leasing of tower space on all emergency telephone system board
communication towers and coordinating and supervising the establishment of
equipment specifications and coding systems.
   C.   Receiving monies from the surcharge imposed under section 15.3 of the
emergency telephone system act, receiving monies from the surcharge imposed
under section 17 of the wireless emergency telephone safety act, receiving
monies from any communications tower lease agreements and from any other source
for deposit into the emergency telephone system fund.
   D.   Authorizing all disbursements from the fund, including the expenditure
and disbursement of all cellular surcharge revenues as set forth above, monies
received from communications tower lease agreements or monies received from any
other source.
   E.   Hiring any staff or other professional services necessary for the
implementation, construction, repair, maintenance, operation, upgrade or
replacement of the system.
   F.   Entering into any intergovernmental agreements, call handling
agreements or other agreements necessary or desirable or in any way connected
to the implementation, construction, repair, maintenance, operation, upgrade or
replacement of the system. (Ord. 05-003, 2-8-2005)
4-7-11: EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM FUND; EXPENDITURES:
All monies received by a board pursuant to a surcharge imposed under section
15.3 of the emergency telephone system act or from section 17 of the wireless
emergency telephone safety act and all revenue received from any communications
tower lease agreement or from any other source shall be deposited into a
separate interest bearing emergency telephone system fund account. The
treasurer of Grundy County shall be custodian of the fund. All interest
accruing on the fund shall remain in the fund. No expenditures may be made from
such fund except upon the direction of the board by resolution passed by a
majority of all members of the ETSB. Expenditures may be made only to pay for
the cost associated with the following:
   A.   The design of the emergency telephone system.
   B.   The coding of an initial master street address guide database, and
update and maintenance thereof.
   C.   The repayment of any monies advanced for the implementation,
construction, repair, maintenance, operation, upgrade or replacement of the
system.
   D.   The charges for automatic number identification and automatic location
identification equipment, a computer aided dispatch system that records,
maintains, and integrates information, mobile data transmitters equipped with
automatic vehicle locators including all communication towers, and maintenance,
replacement and update thereof to increase operational efficiency and improve
the provision of emergency services.
   E.   The nonrecurring charges related to installation of the emergency
telephone system and the ongoing network charges.
   F.   The acquisition and installation, or the reimbursement of costs
therefor to other governmental bodies that have incurred those costs, of road
or street signs that are essential to the implementation of the emergency
telephone system and that are not duplicative of signs that are the
responsibility of the jurisdiction charged with maintaining road and street
signs.
   G.   The payment and satisfaction of any and all debt incurred by the county
of Grundy for and on behalf of the Grundy County emergency telephone system
board, when due, from the revenues of the Grundy County emergency telephone
system fund.
   H.   Other products and services necessary for the implementation,
construction, repairs, maintenance, operation, upgrade or replacement of the
system including all communication towers, the payment of any professional fees
and any other purpose related to the operation of the system, including costs
attributable directly to the construction, leasing, or maintenance of any
building or facilities or costs of personnel attributable directly to the
operation of the system. Costs attributable directly to the operation of an
emergency telephone system do not include the costs of public safety agency
personnel who are and equipment that is dispatched in response to an emergency
call. (Ord. 05-003, 2-8-2005)
CHAPTER 8
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-8-1: Nuisances Prohibited
4-8-2: Penalty
4-8-1: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
Any of the following activities are nuisances and are unlawful when conducted
on property located within the county, but outside of the corporate limits of
any city or village therein; whether conducted, suffered or permitted by the
owner, tenant or other occupant thereof, it being the intent of this chapter to
make all such persons jointly and severally liable for compliance herewith:
   A.   To keep, maintain or grow noxious weeds or other vegetation which
creates a health or safety hazard to the public. Excluded from the provisions
of this subsection are lands or portions of any lands located in a public
nature area, any property owned or leased by a unit of government and property
zoned for any agricultural use, however, this subsection A shall apply to land
zoned A-R agricultural residential. Noxious weeds shall include, but are not
limited to, the following:
Marihuana (Cannabis sativa L.), Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial sow
thistle (Sonchus arvensis), musk thistle (Carduus nutans); perennial members of
the Sorghum genus including Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), Sorghum almum,
and other Johnson grass X Sorghum crosses with rhizomes, quack grass (Agropyron
repens), curled (curly) dock (Rumex crispus), corn cockle (Agrostemma githago),
wild morning glories (Ipomoea coccinea, Ipomoea hederacea, Ipomoea pandurata,
Ipomoea purpurea), poison ivy (Rhus radicans), purple loosestrife (Lythrum
salicaria), garlic mustard (Alliaria petiolata), poison hemlock, white snake
root, and burdock (Arctium minus).
   B.   To wilfully allow the running at large (off property) of cattle,
horses, mules, asses, swine, sheep, goats, chickens, ducks, geese or other
fowl.
   C.   To keep or use or be in any way connected with the management of any
room, place or building or other premises, kept or used for the purpose of
fighting or baiting any dog, cock or other animal, or to permit such place to
be kept or used for such purpose on premises owned, rented or controlled by
him/her.
   D.   To deposit or allow to be deposited offal, fecal matter, night soil,
garbage, compost, junk, trash, refuse or other offensive substances upon public
or private property, or to permit such objects to remain upon such property.
Excluded from the provisions of this subsection is the application of compost
for horticultural purposes. Also excluded from this subsection D are lands or
portions of any lands zoned for any agricultural use, however, this subsection
D shall apply to lands zoned A-R agricultural residential.
   E.   To keep or store junk, trash and refuse on property. Without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, "junk, trash and refuse" is defined herein to
include any and all waste matter, whether reusable or not, which is offensive
to the public health, safety and welfare of the neighborhood, and is
specifically intended to include, but not be limited to, inoperable and/or
abandoned motor vehicles, trucks, tractors, machinery of any kind, any parts
thereof, iceboxes, refrigerators, freezers, stoves, metal drums or other
containers, paper, construction debris and raw garbage irrespective of whether
or not such objects are located on the property of the owner or bailee of such
objects. This subsection E shall not apply to refuse disposal facilities
regulated by the state, the county, or any municipality of the state or to
lands or portions of any lands zoned for any agricultural use, however, this
subsection E shall apply to lands zoned A-R agricultural residential.
   F.   To operate, or permit operation of any sound amplification system which
can be heard outside of a vehicle or on property from a distance of three
hundred feet (300') or more from the vehicle or source.
   G.   To perform or allow to be performed construction, repair or remodeling
work where the noise from such can be heard from a distance of one hundred feet
(100') or more from the source of the noise between nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Monday through Friday and between nine o'clock (9:
00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays. Excluded from this subsection G are lands or portions of any lands
zoned for any agricultural use, however, this subsection G does apply to lands
zoned A-R agricultural residential.
   H.   To perform lawn mowing or utilize power or nonpower tools where the
noise from such activity can be heard from a distance of one hundred feet
(100') or more from the source of the noise between nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Monday through Friday and between nine o'clock (9:
00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays. Excluded from this subsection H are lands or portions of any lands
zoned for any agricultural use, however, this subsection H shall apply to lands
zoned A-R agricultural residential. Also excluded from the provisions of this
subsection are lands or portions of lands used for golf courses, and work
performed by or on behalf of any public body.
      1.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, to operate or
permit operation of any sound amplification system in a vehicle or on property,
or to perform lawn mowing or utilize power or nonpower tools, or to operate off
road vehicles, including, but not limited to, off highway motorcycles,
minibikes, all-terrain vehicles (ATVs), snowmobiles or other like or similar
vehicles, on private property where the noise from such vehicle or activity is
such as to unreasonably disturb, injure or endanger the comfort, repose,
health, peace or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary sensitivity, and when
after written or verbal warning from law enforcement personnel the owner or
operator fails to cease and desist from such operation or activity.
      2.   To make, continue, create or cause to be made or continued any loud
or raucous noise.
      3.   To make, continue, create or cause to be made or continue any noise
which is harsh, prolonged, unnatural, or unusual in time or place as to
occasion unreasonable discomfort to any persons within the neighborhood from
which the noise emanates, or as to unreasonably interfere with the peace and
comfort of neighbors or their guests, or operators or customers in places of
business, or as to detrimentally or adversely affect such residences or places
of business.
      4.   Factors for determining whether a sound is unreasonably loud or
raucous may include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   The proximity of the sound to sleeping facilities, whether
residential or commercial;
         b.   The land use, nature and zoning of the area from which the sound
emanates and the area where it is received or perceived;
         c.   The time of day the sound occurs;
         d.   The duration and frequency of the sound; and
         e.   Whether the sound is recurrent, intermittent, or constant.
         f.   Any violation of section 12-602 of the Illinois motor vehicle
code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-602, mufflers, prevention of noise.
         g.   Removal or modification of adequate sound suppression equipment
as set for in section 4-1(E) of the snowmobile registration and safety act, 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/4-1(E), adequate sound suppression equipment.
      5.   Nothing herein shall be construed as preventing the lawful exercise
of the right of free speech protected by the constitution of the United States
or the state of Illinois.
      6.   Excluded from the provisions of this subsection H is noise generated
by agricultural equipment on land used for agricultural purposes and work
performed for or on behalf of a public body.
      7.   Nothing herein shall be construed as a limitation on the operation
of duly registered motorcycles, as defined in the Illinois motor vehicle code,
on a public road.
      8.   Proof of violation of this subsection H shall not require the use of
any decibel meter or other measuring device.
   I.   To place household garbage in any outside container so that the
household garbage is accessible to animals. Further, it shall be a nuisance and
unlawful to place garbage or trash out for collection more than twenty four
(24) hours before the scheduled pick up time. Excluded from this subsection I
are lands or portions of any lands zoned for any agricultural use, however,
this subsection I shall apply to lands zoned A-R agricultural residential.
   J.   To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water of a spring,
river, stream, pond, or lake to the injury or prejudice of others, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/47-5(3).
   K.   To obstruct or impede, without legal authority, the passage of a
navigable river or waters, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/47-5(4).
   L.   To obstruct or encroach upon public highways, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, and ways to burying places, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/47-5(5).
   M.   To erect, continue, or use a building or other place for the exercise
of a trade, employment, or manufacture that, by occasioning noxious
exhalations, offensive smells, or otherwise, is offensive or dangerous to the
health of individuals or to the public, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/47-5
(8).
   N.   To advertise wares or occupation by painting notices of the wares or
occupation on or affixing them to fences or other private property, or on rocks
or other natural objects without the consent of the owner, or if in the highway
or other public place, without permission of the proper authorities, 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/47-5(9).
   O.   To harass, intimidate, or threaten a person who is about to sell or
lease or has sold or leased a residence or other real property or is about to
buy or lease or has bought or leased a residence or other real property, when
the harassment, intimidation, or threat relates to a person's attempt to sell,
buy, or lease a residence, or other real property, or refers to a person's
sale, purchase or lease of a residence or other real property, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/47-5(14).
   P.   To store, dump, or permit the accumulation of debris, refuse, garbage,
trash, tires, buckets, cans, wheelbarrows, garbage cans, or other containers in
a manner that may harbor mosquitoes, flies, insects, rodents, nuisance birds,
or other animal pests that are offensive, injurious, or dangerous to the health
of individuals or the public, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/47-5(15).
   Q.   To create a condition, through the improper maintenance of a swimming
pool or wading pool, or by causing an action that alters the condition of a
natural body of water, so that it harbors mosquitoes, flies, or other animal
pests that are offensive, injurious, or dangerous to the health of individuals
or the public, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/47-5(16).
   R.   To operate a tanning facility without a valid permit under the tanning
facility permit act, 210 Illinois Compiled Statutes 145/1 et seq.
   S.   For a person to dump, deposit, or place garbage, rubbish, trash or
refuse upon real property not owned by that person without the consent of the
owner or person in possession of the real property, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/47-15(a).
      1.   A person who violates this subsection S is liable to the owner or
person in possession of the real property on which the garbage, rubbish, trash,
or refuse is dumped, deposited, or placed for the reasonable costs incurred by
the owner or person in possession for cleaning up and properly disposing of the
garbage, rubbish, trash, or refuse and for reasonable attorney fees, 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/47-15(b).
      2.   A person violating this subsection S is guilty of a class B
misdemeanor for which the court must impose a minimum fine of five hundred
dollars ($500.00). A second conviction for an offense committed after the first
conviction is a class A misdemeanor for which the court must impose a minimum
fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). A third or subsequent violation,
committed after a second conviction, is a class 4 felony for which the court
must impose a minimum fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). A person who
violates this subsection S and who has an equity interest in a motor vehicle
used in violation of this subsection S is presumed to have the financial
resources to pay the minimum fine not exceeding his or her equity interest in
the vehicle. Personal property used by a person in violation of this subsection
S shall on the third or subsequent conviction of the person be forfeited to the
county where the violation occurred and disposed of at a public sale. Before
the forfeiture, the court shall conduct a hearing to determine whether property
is subject to forfeiture under this subsection S. At the forfeiture hearing the
state has the burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that
property is subject to forfeiture under this subsection S, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/47-15(c).
      3.   The statutory minimum fine required by subsection S2 of this section
is not subject to reduction or suspension unless the defendant is indigent. If
the defendant files a motion with the court asserting his or her inability to
pay the mandatory fine required by this subsection, the court must set a
hearing on the motion before sentencing. The court must require an affidavit
signed by the defendant containing sufficient information to ascertain the
assets and liabilities of the defendant. If the court determines that the
defendant is indigent, the court must require that the defendant choose either
to pay the minimum fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or to perform one
hundred (100) hours of community service, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/47-
15(d).
   T.   It is a class A misdemeanor for a person to permit a water well,
located on property owned by him or her, to be in an unplugged condition at any
time after the abandonment of the well for obtaining water. No well is in an
unplugged condition, however, that is plugged in conformity with the rules and
regulations of the department of natural resources issued under section 6 and
section 19 of the Illinois oil and gas act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 725/
6 and 725/19. This subsection does not apply to a well drilled or used for
observation or any other purpose in connection with the development or
operation of a gas storage project, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/47-20.
(Ord. 08-004, 4-8-2008)
   U.   For a person to openly burn landscape waste:
      1.   That consists of any materials other than dry landscape waste and
brush.
      2.   That was not generated on the property where the open burning
actually occurs.
      3.   Any time other than from October 15 to May 1 on weekdays between ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and weekend days between
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
      4.   When the wind is in excess of ten (10) miles per hour.
      5.   Within twenty feet (20') of any building, structure on adjacent
property or within twenty feet (20') of the property line.
      6.   On public or private roads, alleys, sidewalks, or easements, with
the exception of ceremonial use allowed by the local fire department and
controlled burns by local fire departments.
      7.   Without proper supervision until the fire is extinguished.
      8.   Without a fire extinguisher or water source available at the burning
site to extinguish and control the fire.
      9.   In a manner that would cause or allow any open or uncontrolled
burning of landscape wastes and/or other materials in violation of the above
regulations and restrictions.
      10.   The exemptions provided below shall not apply to the terms and
provisions of this subsection U:
         a.   To any property zoned A-agricultural or to any property greater
than five (5) acres zoned AR-agricultural residential.
         b.   To any burning of landscape waste for purposes of prescribed
burns for native plantings, habitat reclamation as prescribed in sections
8-9-13 and
8-9-14 of this code.
         c.   To the burning of brush for purposes of domestic fireplaces or
cooking or external fireplaces, or to self-contained outdoor wood burning
devices or fireplaces.
         d.   To the open burning of brush for purposes of recreational fires.
         e.   To the open burning of brush for purposes of ceremonial fires
provided that a permit is received for any ceremonial fire by the local fire
protection district.
      11.   The following definitions apply to this subsection:
         AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES: The land (with and without farm residences)
used for field crops, orchards, viniculture, aquaculture, sod, plant materials
for off site sales, and truck farming. It also includes the raising or breeding
of livestock, cattle, horses, poultry, and bees.
         BRUSH: Tree trunks, limbs, branches, and twigs.
         CEREMONIAL FIRE: An outdoor fire larger than three feet by three feet
by three feet (3' x 3' x 3') which is used for entertainment purposes as part
of a specifically scheduled public or private event and excludes leaves, grass
or shrubbery clippings or cuttings.
         LANDSCAPE WASTE: All accumulations of grass or shrubbery trimmings,
leaves, tree limbs, and other materials accumulated as the result of the care
of lawns, shrubbery, vines and trees.
         RECREATIONAL FIRE: An outdoor fire for warmth, cooking for human
consumption or temporary nonceremonial purposes where the fire is not larger
than three feet by three feet by three feet (3' x 3' x 3') and excludes leaves,
grass or shrubbery clippings or cuttings. Garbage, trash, refuse, lumber,
building materials, or tires shall not be burned in a recreational fire.
      12.   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this
subsection shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined by the court
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, plus the costs of the action. A separate and distinct
offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said person shall
continue any such violations. Other actions may be taken by law or in equity to
prevent any violation of this title, and these remedies shall be in addition to
any other penalties. (Ord. 10-016, 12-14-2010)
4-8-2: PENALTY:
Whoever causes, erects or continues a nuisance described in this chapter for
the first offense, is guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined one hundred
dollars ($100.00), and for a subsequent offense is guilty of a class B
misdemeanor. Every nuisance described in this chapter when a conviction for
that nuisance is had, may, by order of the court before which the conviction is
had, be abated by the sheriff or other proper officer, at the expense of the
defendant. It is not a defense to a proceeding under this chapter that the
nuisance is erected or continued by virtue or permission of a law of this
state. (Ord. 08-004, 4-8-2008)
CHAPTER 9
SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS
SECTION:
4-9-1: Purpose
4-9-2: Definitions
4-9-3: Prohibition
4-9-4: Enforcement
4-9-5: Penalty
4-9-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted to protect, preserve, and promote the health, safety
and welfare of the citizens of Grundy County, by prohibiting the possession,
distribution or delivery of any synthetic stimulants, synthetic cannabinoids
and/or synthetic psychedelic/hallucinogens as hereinafter defined, it being the
specific finding of the county that such substances have a dangerous effect
upon anyone using said substances. (Ord. 2011-021, 12-13-2011)
4-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words have the meanings hereinafter
provided:
DELIVER: The actual constructive, or attempted transfer from one person to
another of any synthetic cannabinoid, any synthetic stimulant, and/or any
synthetic psychedelic/hallucinogen, whether or not there is an agency
relationship and includes a sale.
DISTRIBUTE: To deliver other than by dispensing or administering any synthetic
cannabinoid, any synthetic stimulant, and/or any synthetic psychedelic/
hallucinogen.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust, partnership
or association, or any other entity.
POSSESS: With the knowledge of the presence and nature of a substance either
actually or constructively in control of a substance. A person has actual
possession if he has the substance on his person or within easy reach and
convenient control. A person who, although not in actual possession, has the
power and intention at a given time to exercise dominion or control over the
substance either directly or through another person or persons is in the
constructive possession of it.
PRODUCT CONTAINING A SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUG: Any product containing a
synthetic cannabinoid, synthetic stimulant or synthetic psychedelic/
hallucinogen, as those terms are defined herein such as, but not limited to,
the examples of brand names or identifiers listed on exhibit A attached to the
ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein by reference.
SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID: Any laboratory created compound that functions similar
to the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), including,
but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound,
mixture, preparation, substance and their analog, including isomers, esters,
ethers, salts, and salts of isomers, containing a cannabinoid receptor agonist,
such as:
   JWH-007 (1-pentyl-2-methyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole)
   JWH-015 (2-Methyl-1-propyl-1H-indol-3-yl)-1- naphthalenylmethanone)
   JWH-018 (1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole)
   JWH-019 (1-hexyl-3-(naphthalene-1-oyl)indole)
   JWH-073 (naphthalene-1-yl-(1-butylindol- 3-yl)methanone)
   JWH-081 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol- 3-yl)methanone)
   JWH-098 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl(1-pentyl-2- methylindol-3-yl)methanone
   JWH-122(1Pentyl-3-(4-methyl-1-naphthoyl)indole)
   JWH-164 (7-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(pentylindol-3- yl)methanone
   JWH-200 (1-(2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)indol-3-yl)- naphthalen-1-ylmethanone)
   JWH-203 (2-(2-chlorophenyl)-1-(1-pentylindol-3- yl)ethanone
   JWH-210 (4-ethylnaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3- yl)methanone
   JWH-250 (1-pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole)
   JWH-251 (1-pentyl-3-(2-methylphenylacetyl)indole)
   JWH-398 (1-pentyl-3-(4chloro-1-naphthoyl)indole)
   HU-210 ((6aR,10aR)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl- 3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a- tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-1-ol)
   HU-211 ((6aS,10aS)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl- 3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a- tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-1-ol)
   HU-308 ([(1R,2R,5R)-2-[2,6-dimethoxy-4-(2- methyloctan-2-yl)phenyl]-7,7-
dimethyl-4- bicyclo[3.1.1]hept-3-enyl]methanol)
   HU-331 ((3-hydroxy-2-[(1R,6R)-3-methyl-6-(1- methylethenyl)-2-cyclohexen-1-
yl]-5-pentyl-2,5- cyclohexadiene-1,4-dione)
   CP 55,940(2-[(1R,2R,5R)-5-hydroxy-2-(3- hydroxypropyl)cyclohexyl]-5-(2-
methyloctan-2- yl)phenol)
   CP 47,497(2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2- methyloctan-2-yl)phenol) and
its homologues
   WIN 55,212-2(®-(+)-[2,3-Dihydro-5-,methyl-3-(4- morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo
[1,2,3-de)-1,4- benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-nepthalenylmethanone)
   RCS-4 ((4-methoxyphenyl)(1-pentyl-1H-indol-3- yl)methanone)
   RCS-8 (1-(1-(2-cyclohexylethyl)-1H-indol-3-yl)-2- (methoxyphenyl)ethanone)
SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELIC/HALLUCINOGEN: Any compound that mimics the effects of any
federally controlled schedule I substance, including, but not limited to, any
quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture, preparation,
substance and their analog, including salts, isomers, esters, ethers and salts
of isomers, containing substances which have a psychedelic/hallucinogenic
effect on the central nervous system and/or brain, such as:
   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-ethylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-E);
   2-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-methylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-D);
   2-(4-Chloro-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-C);
   2-(4-Iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-I);
   2-(4-(Ethylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-T-2);
   2-(4-(Isopropylthio)-2,5- dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-T-4);
   2-(2,5-Dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-H);
   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-nitro-phenyl)ethanamine (2C-N);
   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-(n)-propylphenyl) (2C-P).
SYNTHETIC STIMULANT: Any compound that mimics the effects of any federally
controlled schedule I substance such as cathinone, methcathinone, MDMA and
MDEA, including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic
material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog, including
salts, isomers, and salts of isomers, containing substances which have a
stimulant effect on the central nervous system, such as:
   3-Fluoromethcathinone
   4-Fluoromethcathinone (other name: flephedrone)
   3,4-Methylenedioxymethcathinone (other name: methylone, MDMC)
   3,4-Methylenedioxypyrovalerone (other name: MDPV)
   4-Methylmethcathinon (other names: mephedrone, 4- MMC)
   4-Methoxymethcathinone (other names: methedrone, bk-PMMA, PMMC)
   4-Ethylmethcathinone (other name: 4-EMC)
   Ethcathinone
   Beta-keto-N-methylbenzodioxyolylpropylamine (other names: butylone, bk-MBDB)
   Napthylpyrovalerone (other names: naphyrone, NRG- 1)
   N,N-dimethylcathinone (other name: metamfepramone)
   Alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: alpha- PPP)
   4-methoxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MOPPP)
   3,4-methylenedioxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MDPPP)
   Alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone (other name: alpha- PVP)
   6,7-kihydro-5H-indeno(5,6-d))-1,3-dioxal-6-amine (other name: MDAI)
Any compound that is structurally derived from 2- amino-1-phenyl-1-propanone by
modification or substitution in any of the following ways:
   In the phenyl ring to any extent with alkyl, alkoxy, alkylenedioxy,
haloalkyl, or halide substituents, whether or not further substituted in the
phenyl ring by one or more other univalent substituents;
   At the 3-position with an alkyl substituent;
   At the nitrogen atom with alkyl, dialkyl, benzyl, or methoxybenzyl groups;
   Or by inclusion of the nitrogen atom in a cyclic structure. (Ord. 2011-021,
12-13-2011)
4-9-3: PROHIBITION:
   A.   Sale Or Delivery Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
sell, offer for sale or deliver any product containing a synthetic cannabinoid,
synthetic stimulant or synthetic psychedelic/hallucinogen.
   B.   Possession Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to possess a
product containing a synthetic cannabinoid, synthetic stimulant or synthetic
psychedelic/hallucinogen.
   C.   Use Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the
influence of a synthetic cannabinoid, synthetic stimulant or synthetic
psychedelic/hallucinogen. (Ord. 2011-021, 12-13-2011)
4-9-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement of this chapter shall be by any law enforcement officer
acting in his official capacity, when a violation of this chapter is observed
or reported in unincorporated Grundy County.
   B.   The law enforcement officer shall issue a citation with a court date
not less than twenty one (21) days or more than forty five (45) days from the
date of the violation of this chapter. The accused must appear on the court
date before the presiding judge in the Grundy County circuit court. If a
violator wishes a hearing to contest the violation, he must file a written
request for a hearing within twenty one (21) days of the issuance of the
citation with the circuit clerk of Grundy County with a copy to the Grundy
County state's attorney. At the trial on the merits of the citation, the
Illinois civil rules of procedure will apply and the standard of proof would be
by a preponderance of the evidence.
   C.   If the violator wishes to admit the violation of this chapter, he may
avoid a court appearance by working out the appropriate fine with the state's
attorney's office, who may agree that the fine be paid over the counter to the
Grundy County treasurer. (Ord. 2011-021, 12-13-2011)
4-9-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation, who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be fined as listed below. Each day a violation of this
chapter occurs, or everyday a violation continues to exist, shall constitute a
new and separate violation.
   A.   First offense: Five hundred dollars ($500.00) and confiscation of all
prohibited materials.
   B.   Second and all subsequent offenses: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
and confiscation of all prohibited materials. (Ord. 2011-021, 12-13-2011)
CHAPTER 10
CANNABIS
SECTION:
4-10-1: Civil Violation
4-10-1: CIVIL VIOLATION:
   A.   Provisions:
      1.   It shall be a civil violation for any person knowingly to possess
cannabis in an amount of ten grams (10 g) or less.
      2.   Cannabis includes marijuana, hashish, and other substances which are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis Sativa, whether growing
or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant, and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative or resin, including
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), and all other cannabinol derivatives.
      3.   Any person found violating this chapter shall receive a written
notice of the violation together with relevant details in the same manner as a
traffic citation.
      4.   The Circuit Court shall have authority to issue a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) but not more than two hundred dollars
($200.00). Proceeds of the fine shall be payable to Clerk of the Circuit Court.
Within thirty (30) days after the deposit of the fine, the Clerk shall
distribute the proceeds of the fine as follows:
         a.   Ten dollars ($10.00) of the fine to the Circuit Clerk and ten
dollars ($10.00) of the fine to the law enforcement agency that issued the
citation; the proceeds of each ten dollar ($10.00) fine distributed to the
Circuit Clerk and each ten dollar ($10.00) fine distributed to the law
enforcement agency that issued the citation for the violation shall be used to
defer the cost of automatic expungements under paragraph (2.5) of subsection
(a) of section 5.2 of the Criminal Identification Act;
         b.   Fifteen dollars ($15.00) to the County to fund drug addiction
services;
         c.   Ten dollars ($10.00) to the Office of the State's Attorney's
Appellate Prosecutor for use in training programs;
         d.   Ten dollars ($10.00) to the State's Attorney; and
         e.   Any remainder of the fine to the law enforcement agency that
issued the citation for the violation.
With respect to funds designated for the Department of State Police, the moneys
shall be remitted by the Circuit Court Clerk to the Department of State Police
within one (1) month after receipt for deposit into the State Police Operations
Assistance Fund. With respect to funds designated for the Department of Natural
Resources, the Department of Natural Resources shall deposit the moneys into
the Conservation Police Operations Assistance Fund. (Ord. 2016-018, 12-13-2016)
CHAPTER 11
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
SECTION:
4-11-1: Civil Violation
4-11-1: CIVIL VIOLATION:
   A.   Provisions:
      1.   It shall be a civil violation for any person knowingly to possess an
item of drug paraphernalia with the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cannabis or a controlled substance into the human body,
or in preparing cannabis or a controlled substance for that use.
      2.   "Drug paraphernalia" means all equipment, products and materials of
any kind, other than methamphetamine manufacturing materials as defined in
section 10 of the Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act, which
are intended to be used unlawfully in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing
into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of the
Cannabis Control Act, the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, or the
Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act or a synthetic drug
product or misbranded drug in violation of the Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act. It includes, but is not limited to:
         a.   Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance;
         b.   Isomerization devices intended to be used unlawfully in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a
controlled substance;
         c.   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private
home for identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
cannabis or controlled substances;
         d.   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for
cutting cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;
         e.   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, hashish oil, or a synthetic
drug product or misbranded drug in violation of the Illinois Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act into the human body including, where applicable, the following
items:
            (1)   Water pipes;
            (2)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            (3)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            (4)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            (5)   Carburetor pipes;
            (6)   Electric pipes;
            (7)   Air-driven pipes;
            (8)   Chillums;
            (9)   Bongs;
            (10)   Ice pipes or chillers;
         f.   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller,
is for use in violation of these Acts.
      3.   Any person found violating this chapter shall receive a written
notice of the violation together with relevant details in the same manner as a
traffic citation.
      4.   The Circuit Court shall have authority to issue a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) but not more than two hundred dollars
($200.00). Proceeds of the fine shall be payable to Clerk of the Circuit Court.
Within thirty (30) days after the deposit of the fine, the Clerk shall
distribute the proceeds of the fine as follows:
         a.   Ten dollars ($10.00) of the fine to the Circuit Clerk and ten
dollars ($10.00) of the fine to the law enforcement agency that issued the
citation; the proceeds of each ten dollar ($10.00) fine distributed to the
Circuit Clerk and each ten dollar ($10.00) fine distributed to the law
enforcement agency that issued the citation for the violation shall be used to
defer the cost of automatic expungements under paragraph (2.5) of subsection
(a) of section 5.2 of the Criminal Identification Act;
         b.   Fifteen dollars ($15.00) to the County to fund drug addiction
services;
         c.   Ten dollars ($10.00) to the Office of the State's Attorney's
Appellate Prosecutor for use in training programs;
         d.   Ten dollars ($10.00) to the State's Attorney; and
         e.   Any remainder of the fine to the law enforcement agency that
issued the citation for the violation.
With respect to funds designated for the Department of State Police, the moneys
shall be remitted by the Circuit Court Clerk to the Department of State Police
within one (1) month after receipt for deposit into the State Police Operations
Assistance Fund. With respect to funds designated for the Department of Natural
Resources, the Department of Natural Resources shall deposit the moneys into
the Conservation Police Operations Assistance Fund. (Ord. 2016-020, 12-13-2016)
CHAPTER 12
VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
SECTION:
4-12-1: Impoundment Of Vehicles
4-12-1: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Provisions:
      1.   Grundy County does herewith impose a fee for the administrative and
processing costs associated with the investigation, arrest, and detention of an
offender, or the removal, impoundment, storage and release of a properly
impounded vehicle except that no fee shall be charged upon verifiable proof
that a seized vehicle was stolen at the time the vehicle was impounded.
      2.   The fee established hereby may be charged for the following
violations:
         a.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to section 36-1 of the Criminal Code of 2012; or
         b.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
section 11-501 of the Illinois Vehicle Code; or
         c.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act; or
         d.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act; or
         e.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of section 24-1, 24-1.5, or 24-
3.1 of the Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012; or
         f.   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate
a motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to section 6-303 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code; except that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure
or impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving)
or due to failure to comply with emission testing; or
         g.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing,
or attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as
defined by the Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled Substances Act;
or
         h.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's
license, in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, if the
period of expiration is greater than one (1) year; or
         i.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been
issued a driver's license or permit, in violation of section 6-101 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been
issued a driver's license or permit due to a person's age; or
         j.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a Circuit Clerk in Illinois for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated section 6-101, 6-303, or 11-501 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code; or
         k.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of article 16 or 16A of the
Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012; or
         l.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of
the Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012, when so provided by
local ordinance; or
         m.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of section 11-
503 of the Illinois Vehicle Code:
            (1)   While the vehicle is part of a funeral procession; or
            (2)   In a manner that interferes with a funeral procession.
      3.   The following conditions shall apply to the administrative fees
authorized by this chapter:
         a.   All administrative fees and towing and storage charges shall be
imposed on the registered owner of the motor vehicle or the agents of that
owner.
         b.   The fees shall be in addition to: 1) any other penalties that may
be assessed by a court of law for the underlying violations; and 2) any towing
or storage fees, or both, charged by the towing company.
         c.   The fees shall be uniform for all similarly situated vehicles.
         d.   The fees shall be collected by and paid to the County or
municipality imposing the fees.
         e.   The towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and
paid to the person, firm, or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle.
      4.   Any vehicle properly impounded pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall be released to the owner of record, lessee, or lienholder of
record upon payment of all administrative fees and towing and storage fees.
      5.   The lawful possessor of any vehicle properly impounded pursuant to
this chapter shall have the right to a hearing as provided in 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3(b)(4) and the following further provisions:
         a.   Whenever a police officer has cause to believe that a motor
vehicle is subject to impoundment, the officer shall provide for the towing of
the vehicle to a facility authorized by the County.
         b.   At the time the vehicle is towed, the County shall notify or make
a reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee, or person identifying himself
or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is found to
be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, of the fact of
the seizure, and of the vehicle owner's or lessee's right to an administrative
hearing.
         c.   The County shall also provide notice that the motor vehicle will
remain impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing, unless
the owner or lessee of the vehicle or a lienholder posts with the County or
municipality a bond equal to the administrative fee as provided by ordinance
and pays for all towing and storage charges.
      6.   The registered owner or lessee and lienholder of record shall be
provided with notice of hearing as required by this chapter. The notice shall:
         a.   Be served upon the owner, lessee, and any lienholder of record
either by personal service or by first class mail to the interested party's
address as registered with the Secretary of State;
         b.   Be served upon interested parties within ten (10) days after a
vehicle is impounded by the municipality; and
         c.   Contain the date, time, and location of the administrative
hearing. An initial hearing shall be scheduled and convened no later than forty
five (45) days after the date of the mailing of the notice of hearing.
      7.   The hearing provided hereby shall include the following
requirements:
         a.   Administrative hearings shall be conducted by a Hearing Officer
who is an attorney licensed to practice law in this State for a minimum of
three (3) years;
         b.   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the Hearing
Officer shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the
vehicle impoundment;
         c.   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the
Administrative Hearing Officer, any administrative fee posted to secure the
release of the vehicle shall be forfeited to the County or municipality;
         d.   All final decisions of the Administrative Hearing Officer shall
be subject to review under the provisions of the Administrative Review Law,
unless the County or municipality allows in the enabling ordinance for direct
appeal to the Circuit Court having jurisdiction over the County or
municipality;
         e.   Unless the Administrative Hearing Officer overturns the basis for
the vehicle impoundment, no vehicle shall be released to the owner, lessee, or
lienholder of record until all administrative fees and towing and storage
charges are paid; and
         f.   If the Administrative Hearing Officer finds that a County or
municipality that impounds a vehicle exceeded its authority under the Illinois
Vehicle Code, the County or municipality shall be liable to the registered
owner or lessee of the vehicle for the cost of storage fees and reasonable
attorney's fees.
      8.   Vehicles not retrieved from the towing facility or storage facility
within thirty five (35) days after the Administrative Hearing Officer issues a
written decision shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of in accordance with
the provisions of article II of chapter 4 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
      9.   Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any fine,
penalty, or administrative fee imposed under this chapter which remains unpaid
in whole or in part after the expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial
review under the Administrative Review Law may be enforced in the same manner
as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      10.   The administrative fee provided in this chapter shall not exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      11.   This chapter shall become effective on the first day of the month
following passage. (Ord. 2016-019, 12-13-2016)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
COUNTY PARKING LOT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Parking For County Employees Only; Days And Hours
5-1-2: Vehicle Decals
5-1-3: Enforcement
5-1-4: Fine
5-1-1: PARKING FOR COUNTY EMPLOYEES ONLY; DAYS AND HOURS:
The existing county parking lot on the south side of Illinois Avenue
immediately across the street from the county courthouse shall be limited to
parking by county employees only, between the periods of seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. and four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M., Monday through Friday, county
holidays excepted. (Ord., 7-10-1984)
5-1-2: VEHICLE DECALS:
The county clerk shall obtain decals suitable for placing on car windshields
signifying that the vehicle is owned or operated by a county employee. It shall
be unlawful to park a motor vehicle in the parking lot during the days and
times stated in section
5-1-1 of this chapter which does not bear said decal. (Ord., 7-10-1984; amd.
2004 Code)
5-1-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The county sheriff is hereby authorized to patrol the lot during the days and
times stated in section
5-1-1 of this chapter and to issue parking tickets for vehicles in the lot
which do not bear the decal described in section
5-1-2 of this chapter. (Ord., 7-10-1984; amd. 2004 Code)
5-1-4: FINE:
   A.   Amount Of Fine: Whoever violates any of the terms of this chapter shall
be subject to a fine of not less than five dollars ($5.00) and not more than
fifty dollars ($50.00).
   B.   Payment Of Fine; Disposition Of Funds: The sheriff shall be authorized
to accept payment of any fines at his office. All fine money collected
hereunder shall be transmitted to the county treasurer and shall thereafter be
deposited into the general fund. (Ord., 7-10-1984)
CHAPTER 2
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS 1
SECTION:
5-2-1: Compliance With Provisions
5-2-2: Sewer Systems Required
5-2-3: Permit Requirements
5-2-4: Private Sewage Disposal System Requirements
5-2-5: Inspections
5-2-6: Fees
5-2-7: Violation; Penalty
5-2-8: Contractor's Registration
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-6-3-6 of this code.
5-2-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
   A.   Occupancy: No person shall occupy, lease or permit the occupancy of any
building or structure which does not comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and the enforcement of this chapter:
   CLEARANCE PERMIT: The written determination that a proposed modification to
a property will not result in an encroachment of or onto any private sewage
disposal or private water supply system. It also includes a written
determination as to whether or not a private sewage disposal system is sized
sufficiently for a location. This determination does not necessarily negate the
need for a minor modification permit.
   FEASIBILITY LETTER: The written determination by the Grundy County health
department division of environmental health that a code compliant private
sewage disposal system can be designed on a given property based upon relevant
information gathered about said property.
   MINOR MODIFICATION: A change, alteration or replacement of a small or
limited component of an existing private sewage disposal system which would
require inspection to ensure compliance with the current private sewage
disposal code standards. A change to a field size or existing lines of a
subsurface absorption component of a system is considered a septic repair.
   SEPTIC EVALUATION: A service available from the Grundy County health
department in which all parts of a private sewage disposal system, which are
readily accessible, are inspected to determine if they are properly installed
and maintained as well as confirming and/or diagramming the private sewage
disposal system components.
   SITE INSPECTION: Involves going to a subject property in order to gather
information through inspection, use of detection techniques and other
evaluation efforts as part of a clearance permit process. (Ord. 2015-001, 1-13-
2015)
5-2-2: SEWER SYSTEMS REQUIRED:
   A.   Residences: Every building occupied as a dwelling shall have a sewage
system as provided herein, approved by the county health department. Home
additions will require an increase in size of the sewage system to meet county
requirements only when the number of sleeping areas in the home have been
increased. Kitchen or bath additions will not require increases in the size of
the sewage systems unless the number of sleeping areas in the home is
increased. The existing size of the septic system may be approved by the health
department if it is reasonably close to the size of the sewage system required
in this chapter. In order to ensure code compliance, installation and
modification of wells and septic systems, where applicable, shall be made and
inspected prior to issuance of county building permits for mobile homes, room
additions, and swimming pools.
   B.   Businesses: Every building where people are employed shall have a
sewage disposal system as provided herein, approved by the county health
department. (Ord. 2015-001, 1-13-2015)
5-2-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   No private sewage disposal system shall be constructed or altered
unless a permit shall first have been obtained from the county health
department. The permit fee for the installation, modification, and/or repair of
a private sewage disposal system shall be doubled if work begins prior to the
issuance of a permit from the health department.
      2.   A permit must be obtained from the state environmental protection
agency for a septic system designed to accommodate more than fifteen (15)
persons if the effluent is discharged to the surface.
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Generally: The permit application shall contain plans,
specifications, lot layout and such further information or documents as the
county health department or other lawful authority may require to ensure
compliance with the requirements set forth herein. False information shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter.
      2.   Septic System: Each septic system application shall be accompanied
by a plat drawn to scale and fully dimensioned in which the following
information is shown:
         a.   Location of all wells, septic tanks, subsurface tile systems,
grease traps, privy vaults, sewers, or other sewage disposal facilities on the
subject and adjacent lots within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the
installations proposed. Vacant property and streets shall be indicated.
         b.   Locations and dimensions of all proposed buildings and driveways.
         c.   Elevations as follows may be required by the health department
prior to permit issuance:
            (1)   Top of foundation.
            (2)   Sewer invert at foundation.
            (3)   Sewer invert at tank inlet.
            (4)   Sewer invert at tank outlet.
            (5)   Sewer invert at distribution box.
            (6)   Sewer invert at end of header line.
            (7)   Sewer invert at end of each lateral.
            (8)   Sufficient ground elevation to indicate one foot (1') contour
intervals.
         d.   All elevations shall be related to a convenient bench mark which
shall be specified.
         e.   Locations of soil evaluation boreholes shall be shown and
correlated with borehole numbers on the seepage test chart.
         f.   High water elevation of nearest ditch, creek, swamp or open
waterways, except roadside ditches, shall be specified on septic system plans
along with the distance from same to subject lot.
         g.   Location of future buildings, especially garages, shall be
indicated.
         h.   Plans for buildings other than residences shall include location
of parking areas required by the county zoning ordinance.
         i.   Any septic field line should be ten feet (10') from any tree.
   C.   Approval Of Application; Issuance Of Permit: A septic system and/or
well permit application (unless a municipal system is available) must be
approved before a permit may be issued.
   D.   Posting Of Permit: Permits shall be posted at the location of the water
supply or sewage disposal system construction or alteration, or on the building
which will be serviced by said water supply or sewage disposal system.
   E.   Revocation Or Suspension Of Permit: The county health department shall
have the authority to revoke and suspend permits when they were issued in
error, or where the provisions of this chapter are violated. The reason for the
revocation or suspension of a permit shall be posted in writing at the site or
mailed to the applicant's address provided in the permit application.
   F.   Expiration Of Permit: All permits shall expire after one year from the
date of issuance. Written requests for extensions shall be directed to the
environmental health director of the health department prior to the date of
expiration. The health department shall have the authority to extend or deny
extension of expiration dates.
   G.   Variances: When full compliance of this chapter is impractical due to
existing conditions of a property, a variance from these provisions may be
requested by the owner. Variance requests shall be directed to the
environmental health director of the health department. Variances shall be
submitted in writing.
   H.   Clearance Permit: When an existing structure is being modified, or an
accessory structure is being added to a property with a private sewage disposal
system or water supply system, a clearance permit shall be sought from the
Grundy County health department to ensure that the locations and capacity of
the existing sewage disposal or water supply systems are still in compliance
with the private sewage disposal code as adopted by subsection
5-2-4I of this chapter and the water supply codes adopted in chapter 3 of this
title. (Ord. 2015-001, 1-13-2015)
5-2-4: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Private System Required; Exceptions: Each single-family residence
constructed after the effective date hereof shall have its own sewage disposal
system on the property adjacent to the residence and owned by the owner of the
residence, except where such single-family residence is connected to and using
the public sewer facilities of the county, a municipality, or a licensed public
utility or an approved cluster system.
   B.   Location:
      1.   The minimum distance between water supply systems and sewage
disposal systems, or any parts thereof, shall be as set forth in chapter 3 of
this title.
      2.   Septic tanks must not be less than five feet (5') from the lot line
and not less than ten feet (10') from the building served.
   C.   Sumps, Drains And Sewers:
      1.   Sumps And Pumps:
         a.   Sumps for collection of basement waste must be constructed of
concrete, four inches (4") thick, or plastic, and shall not be permitted less
than twenty five feet (25') from a well.
         b.   Where gravity flow is not feasible, a basement sump pump shall be
provided for the collection of water draining from the footing drain tile and
shall be discharged to an approved outlet. No laundry or floor drain waste
lines shall be connected to this pump.
         c.   Where gravity flow of laundry waste and floor drains is not
possible, it must be connected to a separate sump pump and discharged into a
septic tank or sanitary sewer.
         d.   All sump pits shall be adequately covered with an approved cover
to prevent debris from falling into the pit and to eliminate a safety hazard.
      2.   House Sewers And Drains:
         a.   Minimum size of the house sewer and the house drain shall be four
inches (4"); minimum slope shall be one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot; maximum
slope shall be one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot.
         b.   In order to prevent sagging of the pipe, all sewer lines shall be
bedded in sand or pea gravel or other materials approved by the health
department if soil other than sand is present on the site.
         c.   When solid PVC pipe is used between the house and tank and field,
it must be schedule 40 pipe.
      3.   Grease Traps: Grease traps and catch basins, if used, unless located
inside the dwelling and above the floor, must be located at least fifty feet
(50') from any well or water pipe and must be constructed as specified by the
county health department. Outflow from grease trap or catch basin must be
discharged into the sewer leading to the septic tank.
   D.   Seepage System:
      1.   Location And Geology:
         a.   Seepage systems for disposal of septic tank effluent shall not be
used where the depth from the ground surface to the limestone formation is less
than fifteen feet (15'). Information supplied by the state geological survey,
Urbana, Illinois, shall determine depth to the limestone formation. If this
condition prevails, the county health department may prescribe an alternate
system. This provision shall not apply to lots platted before the effective
date hereof.
         b.   Seepage system shall be at least twenty five feet (25') from any
ditch or stream. These distances shall be doubled or tripled if lot dimensions
allow and soil conditions warrant increased distances.
         c.   Minimum distance from trench sides, or trench ends, or any part
of the septic system to lot lines or easement lines shall be at least five feet
(5').
      2.   Surface Water Drainage:
         a.   The lot area proposed to be occupied by a septic tank and tile
seepage field shall be free from inundation due to ponding of water in
depressions or on flat areas or due to flooding from streams or other drainage
channels.
         b.   Rough and finished grading of seepage field areas shall be so
designed and executed with respect to elevation and slope that surface drainage
is off the area and away from all nearby wells.
      3.   Fill: If fill material is to be placed over or used for any part of
the seepage field areas or within ten feet (10') thereof, to a depth of more
than eighteen inches (18"), it shall be done as follows:
         a.   Porous material only, approved by the health department, shall be
placed over the seepage field area and for a distance of twenty five feet (25')
beyond the end of the laterals.
         b.   Under some circumstances the health department may require that
for a distance of ten feet (10') beyond the porous fill, impervious material be
placed and compacted in such manner as to prevent leaking at the top of the
slope.
         c.   If the seepage system is to be installed within one year of
completion of the filling operation, then the fill shall be placed in layers
and compacted in such a manner that the tile lines shall not settle out of the
required vertical alignment.
      4.   Design: Design of the seepage field shall be in accordance with
rules and regulations established by the county health department and shall be
based on percolation tests and/or soil evaluations, size and use of structure,
number of persons served, and such other factors as might influence the
functioning of the system. The county health department shall specify
percolation test procedure, number of tests to be made and the form in which
results are to be reported. Percolation tests, when run, shall be conducted by
the health department or, if the department deems necessary, a party approved
by the health department.
      5.   Disturbing Seepage Area Prohibited: After a proposed seepage system
has been approved, the area in which it is to be installed shall not be
disturbed in any way unless alterations are specified in the permit. The
proposed seepage field area shall be protected against all vehicular traffic to
prevent compaction of soil. A seepage system should be installed when soil
moisture is at a low level so soil moisture will not cause smearing of the side
walls of the seepage trench wall when trenches are excavated. Working too wet a
soil can adversely affect the proper operation of a seepage system by smearing
and compacting the soil.
   E.   Design Specifications:
      1.   Tank Construction: All septic tanks shall have reinforced removable
lids and shall have a minimum dimension of eight inches (8").
      2.   Sewer And Seepage Field Construction:
         a.   Sewer lines shall be firmly mortared or an approved material
applied at all connections with the septic tank or distribution box.
         b.   All seepage lines shall be fed from a central distribution box or
through drop tees or elbows.
         c.   Distribution boxes, when used, shall be constructed of concrete
of good quality or other suitable material with inlet at least two inches (2")
above outlets and outlets at least one inch (1") above bottom. The box shall
have a removable cover. Baffles shall be provided if necessary to obtain equal
flow distribution.
         d.   Gravel or stone used in the seepage field or sand filter must be
washed and clean; maximum cover over gravel is twenty inches (20"); minimum
cover over gravel is six inches (6").
         e.   The total bottom area in the seepage trenches shall be determined
from soil evaluations and/or percolation tests, according to the procedures set
forth in the most recent edition of the Illinois private sewage disposal code
unless otherwise noted herein.
         f.   Seepage system shall be designed and located so that usable
reserve space will permit the installation of twice the minimum seepage area
required. This area should be indicated on the plat accompanying the permit
application. No seepage system shall be approved with its design based on less
than a twenty (20) minute percolation rate unless approved by the health
department.
         g.   All fill used in the seepage field area and to backfill the
seepage trenches shall consist of finely divided, porous topsoil containing
little or no clay, such as black dirt.
         h.   Except as specifically set forth in this section, all design
specifications for seepage field areas shall be constructed and installed in
accordance with the most recent edition of the Illinois private sewage disposal
code.
      3.   Seepage Beds: Seepage beds may be used in lieu of seepage trenches,
and the health authority may determine under any given conditions which system
may be installed. A seepage bed should not be installed in soils that have a
percolation rate of one hundred eighty (180) or more (180 minutes per 6 inch
fall in water).
      4.   Sand Filter And Aerobic Systems:
         a.   One-sixteenth inch (1/16") mesh shall be used in vents for sand
filter systems so that insects will not enter and exit the filter and transport
bacteria.
         b.   Where a surface discharging system is approved, an effluent
receiving trench shall be installed prior to discharge with the following
design and sizing requirements:
            (1)   Effluent receiving trenches shall be designed at three (3)
gallons per square foot of trench based on the daily flow of the system.
            (2)   Effluent receiving trenches shall be installed as shallow as
possible and no more than thirty six inches (36") below the ground surface and
shall have a minimum of six inches (6") of cover.
            (3)   Effluent receiving trenches shall be designed with a minimum
of twelve inches (12") of gravel and with the distribution line(s) extending
throughout the trench.
            (4)   Effluent receiving trenches shall be designed so that the
invert of the overflow line is one inch (1") below the invert of the treatment
outlet line.
   F.   Septic Tank Pumping:
      1.   Pumping Required: When a septic system malfunctions causing septic
effluent to rise to the ground surface, the health department may require the
homeowner to continually pump the septic tank to prevent the nuisance condition
from existing.
      2.   Disposal Of Septage: Land disposal sites used for disposal of
septage from septic tanks, grease traps and aerobic tanks shall be inspected
and approved by the health department before the site is used for septage
disposal.
   G.   Maintenance Of System: All sewage disposal systems shall be maintained
so as to function properly. An action for violation of this subsection may be
brought against the owner, lessee, or a manager of the property wherein the
violation occurs.
   H.   Licensed Contractors Required: All private sewage disposal systems
within the county shall be installed with a valid Illinois private sewage
disposal system installation contractor's license; and all such systems shall
be pumped, cleaned and the contents disposed of by individuals with a valid
Illinois private sewage pumping contractor's license; provided, however, that a
homeowner may install and/or service a private sewage disposal system which
services his own personal single-family residence.
   I.   State Regulations Adopted: The most recent edition of the Illinois
private sewage disposal code is hereby adopted by reference. The provisions of
that code shall apply unless more stringent provisions are contained in this
code. (Ord. 2015-001, 1-13-2015)
5-2-5: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   It shall be considered a violation of this chapter for any person to
refuse to allow a representative of the county health department to inspect any
sewage disposal system after written notice from the county health department
that it has reason to believe violation exists, and that it requests permission
to make an inspection during reasonable hours.
   B.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person, except a
representative of the county health department, to remove or allow to be
removed a "Notice Of Violation" posted on any property for a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 2015-001, 1-13-2015)
5-2-6: FEES:
   A.   Required permit fees are determined by ordinance of the Grundy County
board of health and the Grundy County board.
   B.   Private sewage disposal evaluations are services offered to the public
for a fee as established by ordinance of the Grundy County board of health and
the Grundy County board.
   C.   A feasibility letter may be provided from the Grundy County health
department upon request of a property owner and payment of the subject fee. The
owner shall provide all documents requested by the Grundy County health
department to complete the evaluation and reach a determination. (Ord. 2015-
001, 1-13-2015)
5-2-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or
refuses to comply with, or refuses to remedy a violation of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and fined not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. Each day upon which such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2015-001, 1-13-
2015)
5-2-8: CONTRACTOR'S REGISTRATION:
   A.   Beginning January 1, 2016, no person shall conduct or carry on the
business of installing, repairing, or pumping the tank of a private sewage
disposal system or any associated components, including, but not limited to,
the following: septic tanks, subsurface seepage system, mechanical components,
etc., within the county of Grundy unless they have registered with the Grundy
County health department.
   B.   An annual contractor's registration fee (adopted by ordinance) shall be
required for all private sewage disposal installation and pumping contractors
operating within the county of Grundy. This fee is nonrefundable.
   C.   The Grundy County health department requires the following to register
as a contractor:
      1.   A valid Illinois department of public health private sewage disposal
installation and/or pumper's license.
      2.   Pay the required annual registration fee to the Grundy County health
department.
   D.   All registrations shall expire on December 31 of the year they are
issued.
   E.   A homeowner who occupies a single-family dwelling and who is installing
the private sewage disposal system which serves the residence on their own
property is exempt from this requirement. (Ord. 2015-013, 10-13-2015, eff. 1-1-
2016)
CHAPTER 3
WATER SUPPLIES 1
SECTION:
5-3-1: Scope And Purpose
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: State Regulations Adopted By Reference
5-3-4: Use Of Public Water Supply Required
5-3-5: Potable Water Supply
5-3-6: Abandoned Wells
5-3-7: Permit Requirements
5-3-8: Well Location
5-3-9: Construction And Installation
5-3-10: Inspections
5-3-11: Disinfection And Analysis
5-3-12: Violation; Penalties
5-3-13: Fees
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-6-3-7 of this code.
5-3-1: SCOPE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter regulates water supplies, the construction and modification of
water wells and closed loop wells, the sealing of abandoned wells, and the
inspection of water supplies and their components within the county. The county
board of health has deemed it necessary and desirable to regulate water
supplies for health purposes and groundwater protection. (Ord. 2015-001, 1-13-
2015)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
ABANDONED WELL: A water or monitoring well which is no longer used to supply
water, or which is in such a state of disrepair that the well or boring has the
potential for transmitting contamination into an aquifer or otherwise threatens
the public health or safety.
CASING MODIFICATION: The alteration or extension of the well casing such as
extending the casing out of a well pit and terminating the well casing above
the ground surface or similar alterations that relate to buried casings.
CLOSED LOOP WELLS: A sealed, watertight loop of pipe buried outside of a
building foundation intended to recirculate a liquid solution through a heat
exchanger but is limited to the construction of the borehole and the grouting
of the borehole and does not include the piping and appurtenances used in any
other capacity. "Closed loop well" does not include any horizontal closed loop
well systems where grouting is not necessary by law or standard industry
practice. "Closed loop heat pump well" means the same thing as "closed loop
well".
COMMUNITY PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A public water system which serves at least
fifteen (15) service connections used by residents or regularly serves twenty
five (25) or more residents for at least sixty (60) days per year.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: That person or persons designated by the Grundy County board
of health to enforce this chapter.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Grundy County department of public health, including its
duly authorized representative.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT ADMINISTRATOR: The individual selected by the Grundy County
board of health to administer and enforce the policies, ordinances,
resolutions, and laws of said board.
NONCOMMUNITY PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A public water system which is not a
community water system, and has at least fifteen (15) service connections used
by nonresidents, or regularly serves twenty five (25) or more nonresident
individuals daily for at least sixty (60) days per year.
POTABLE WATER: Water that is suitable for human consumption and which meets
public health standards for drinking water.
PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM: Any supply which provides water for drinking, culinary,
and sanitary purposes and serves an owner occupied single-family dwelling.
SEMIPRIVATE WATER SYSTEM: A water supply which is not a public water system,
yet which serves a segment of the public other than an owner occupied single-
family dwelling.
WATER WELL: An excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven, dug,
jetted or otherwise constructed when the intended use is for the location,
diversion, artificial recharge or acquisition of groundwater. (Ord. 2015-001,
1-13-2015)
5-3-3: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
In addition to those provisions herein set forth, this chapter shall be
interpreted and enforced in accordance with provisions set forth in the
following statutes, rules, and regulations of the state department of public
health and any amendments or revisions thereto, which publications are
incorporated herein and adopted by reference as part of this chapter:
   A.   Illinois water well construction code 1 .
   B.   Illinois water well pump installation code 2 .
   C.   Public area sanitary practice code 3 .
   D.   Drinking water systems code 4 .
   E.   Surface water treatment code 5 . (Ord. 2015-001, 1-13-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 77 Ill. adm. code § 920.
2 2. 77 Ill. adm. code § 925.
3 3. 77 Ill. adm. code § 895.
4 4. 77 Ill. adm. code § 900.
5 5. 77 Ill. adm. code § 930.
5-3-4: USE OF PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED:
In those locations where a public water supply is reasonably available, that
supply shall be the sole source of water for drinking and culinary purposes. A
public water supply shall be deemed reasonably available when the subject
property is located within two hundred feet (200') of the public water supply
to which connection is practical and is permitted by the controlling authority
for said water supply. (Ord. 2015-001, 1-13-2015)
5-3-5: POTABLE WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Potable Supply Required: All premises intended for human habitation or
occupancy shall be provided with a potable water supply. The potable water
supply shall not be connected to nonpotable water and shall be protected
against backflow and back siphonage in accordance with the requirements of the
Illinois plumbing code 1 .
   B.   Surface Water Supplies: All water systems which receive their source of
water from ponds, lakes, streams, rivers, or other surface collectors of water
shall be designed, constructed, and operated in accordance with the surface
water treatment code. No surface water shall be utilized as a potable water
supply unless the health authority has reviewed and approved the supply and its
components.
   C.   Cisterns: Cisterns shall not be used as a potable water supply except
where adequate groundwater resources are not available. Cistern water shall
receive treatment in accordance with the surface water treatment code. No
surface water shall be utilized as a potable water supply unless the health
authority has reviewed and approved the supply and its components. (Ord. 2015-
001, 1-13-2015)
 
Notes
1 6. See subsection
  6-1-2F of this code.
5-3-6: ABANDONED WELLS:
Wells that are abandoned shall be sealed in a manner prescribed by the health
authority and the Illinois water construction code. The health authority shall
witness the sealing of wells to determine compliance with this chapter. In
questionable cases, the health authority shall make the determination as to
whether a water well is considered abandoned, based upon the definition of an
"abandoned well" and the facts in each particular case. (Ord. 2015-001, 1-13-
2015)
5-3-7: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permits And Compliance Required:
      1.   No water well shall be constructed, deepened or sealed except in
accordance with this chapter, and it shall be unlawful to proceed with such
work unless a permit has first been obtained from the health authority.
      2.   No closed loop well shall be constructed, modified or sealed except
in accordance with this chapter, and it shall be unlawful to proceed with such
work unless a permit has first been obtained from the health authority.
      3.   A noncommunity public water supply shall not be operated without
first obtaining a permit from the Illinois department of public health.
   B.   Application For Permit: All applications for permits under the
provisions of this chapter shall be made in writing and in such form as
prescribed by the health authority. Sufficient data shall be included to
determine whether the proposed application for permit meets the requirements of
this chapter.
   C.   Permit Fees: Required permit fees are determined by ordinance of the
Grundy County board of health and the Grundy County board.
   D.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon submission of the application for permit,
including the plans and specifications of the proposed water well or component
thereof, the health authority shall review said application prior to issuance
of a permit. The health authority may require additional information, which may
include the location of private sewage disposal systems and/or water wells on
adjacent properties. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant or an
authorized agent of the applicant to obtain all necessary data and to design a
system which shall meet the requirements of this chapter. If the health
authority, upon review of said application, finds that such application meets
the requirements of this chapter, and upon payment of the required fee, a
permit shall be issued to the applicant. Such permit shall include
specifications specific to each proposed water well and shall include a
statement as to any restrictions relating to the location, materials,
components, or type of water well to be constructed.
   E.   Property Owner's Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of the
property owner to obtain a permit before any construction or deepening of a
water well or closed loop well is begun. Failure of the property owner to
obtain a permit before construction or deepening of a water well or closed loop
well is begun shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   F.   Water Well And/Or Pump Installation Contractor's Responsibility: It
shall be the responsibility of the water well contractor or closed loop well
contractor to ensure that a permit has been issued before any construction or
deepening of a water well or closed loop well is begun and to follow the
conditions of said permit. Failure of the contractor to ensure said permit has
been issued or to violate the conditions of said permit shall constitute a
violation of this chapter. All water wells and closed loop wells shall be
constructed in accordance with the Illinois water well construction code. All
individuals who construct water wells or closed loop wells and install well
pumps shall be licensed by the Illinois department of public health in
accordance with the water well and pump installation contractor's license act 1
.
   G.   Effect Of Permit: A permit to construct or deepen a water well is valid
for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of issuance. If construction
has not started within this period, the permit is void.
   H.   Exemptions From Permit: A permit to construct or deepen a water well
shall not be required by the health authority when such water well does or will
serve a community public water system or function as a monitoring well. (Ord.
2015-001, 1-13-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 345/1.
5-3-8: WELL LOCATION:
   A.   Well Site:
      1.   Drainage: The well site shall have good surface drainage and, if
possible, be higher than surrounding sources of pollution such as privies,
cesspools, septic tanks and sewers.
      2.   Location:
         a.   No well shall be located within ten feet (10') of the edge of any
public road or utility or drainage easement when an alternate location is
practical.
         b.   When a well must be located adjacent to a building, it shall be
so located that the centerline of the well extended vertically will clear any
projection from the building by not less than five feet (5'). This distance may
be altered if the type of well allows it.
      3.   Number Of Residences Per Well: No more than four (4) single- family
residences constructed after the effective date hereof may be served by a
single well.
   B.   Distances From Sources Of Pollution:
      1.   Minimum distance from wells or suction lines to sources of pollution
shall comply with those distances listed in section 920.50 of the Illinois
water well construction code 1  and section 890.1150 of the Illinois plumbing
code.
      2.   A pressure water line must be installed ten feet (10') from a
building sewer, septic tank, or aerobic tank. If the water line is type K with
no joints or sweated joints, and the sewer line is cast iron with hot poured
leaded joints and oakum, the distance may be reduced if, in the opinion of the
health authority, the ten foot (10') distance separation is not possible. When
conditions prevent separation of water and the sewer line and the sewer line
must cross over a water line, the above material shall be used and shall extend
on each side of the crossing to a distance of not less than ten feet (10') as
measured at right angles to the water line. (Ord. 2015-001, 1-13-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 77 Ill. adm. code § 920.
5-3-9: CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION:
   A.   Well Drilling:
      1.   The well driller shall at all times exercise care in preventing
contamination of groundwater supplies.
      2.   Water used in the drilling operation shall be from a potable source.
      3.   Every completed well shall be immediately sealed against entry of
contamination, either by installation of the pump and appurtenances as provided
herein, or by capping the casing in a watertight manner. An accurate and
complete log of the drilling procedure for each well shall be provided by the
well contractor to the health department for the department to keep with the
original well permit.
   B.   Well Casing: Used or rejected pipe shall not be used.
   C.   Pumps:
      1.   In all cases, all openings into the well casing except the vent pipe
shall be sealed watertight in a manner approved by the county health
department. A vent pipe shall be used, and its end shall be turned down,
screened with noncorrosive 24-mesh screen, and shall terminate at least eight
inches (8") above the finished grade. Electrical conduit and venting shall be
installed so as to prevent the entrance of toxic and flammable gases into any
electrical switch box or structure and as approved by the health department.
      2.   If a hand pump is used, a pump platform shall be provided. It shall
be concrete, and the space between the well casing and the platform shall be
sealed to prevent contamination from entering the well. It shall not be less
than four inches (4") thick with wire mesh. The upper surface of the platform
shall be above finished grade and shall have a crown of not less than one inch
(1") to provide surface drainage.
   D.   Pressure Tanks:
      1.   Specifications: A pressure tank with a minimum storage capacity of
ten (10) gallons, with the exception of on demand systems, or equivalent per
dwelling unit shall be installed. Storage capacity for buildings other than
dwellings shall be approved by the county health department on the basis of the
uses of the property. The tank shall be provided with a drain valve. The valve
shall be provided with an approved hose bib vacuum breaker to prevent any
possibility of back siphonage and contamination of the building water supply.
      2.   Installation: The pressure storage tank may be installed directly
over the well casing and attached to the casing by means of a watertight joint,
or installed in a protected, easily accessible location not subject to
flooding. Tank location and/or method of connecting to the well casing shall be
subject to the approval of the county health department.
   E.   Protection From Freezing: All parts of the water supply system shall be
adequately protected from freezing.
   F.   Water Service Piping: All water service and water distribution piping
outside of the well, above and below ground, shall be one hundred sixty (160)
psi minimum at seventy three and four-tenths degrees Fahrenheit (73.4°F).
Minimum inside diameter shall be at least one inch (1"). All water distribution
piping shall be protected from freezing and shall be at least five feet (5')
from the ground surface when buried. Any variance from this depth shall be
approved by the health department prior to installation.
   G.   Electrical Wiring: Any electrical wiring going underground shall be
approved for burying whether or not it goes through a conduit. All electrical
wiring shall meet the most recent edition of the national electrical code 1  as
published by the National Fire Protection Association. (Ord. 2015-001, 1-13-
2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  6-1-2E of this code.
5-3-10: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Authority; Entry Powers: The health authority shall have the authority
to enter any property at any reasonable time for inspection purposes to
determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter. It shall be the duty
of the owner or occupant of a property to allow the health authority free
access to the property for inspection purposes to determine compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Inspection Of Completed Work: A water well shall not be placed into
operation until the installation of the water well and its components have been
inspected to verify compliance with applicable provisions of this chapter and
written approval issued by the health authority. To the degree practical and
permitted by the health authority, the completed installation shall remain
uncovered and/or accessible for inspection purposes until approved by the
health authority. If the health authority, upon inspection of the specified
installation or component thereof, finds that such work meets the provisions of
this chapter, the health authority shall approve such work and authorize
operation of the water well. However, compliance with section
5-3-11 of this chapter shall be obtained prior to utilizing the water system
for drinking and culinary purposes.
   C.   Notice For Inspection:
      1.   Time Constraints: The health authority shall be notified at least
two (2) days prior to commencing the construction or deepening of a water well
or closed loop well for which a permit has been issued. The health authority
shall also be notified at least two (2) days prior to sealing of an abandoned
water well at which time a date for inspection will be arranged.
      2.   Responsibility For Notice: It shall be the responsibility of the
water well contractor to notify the health authority as required.
   D.   Violations; Suspension Of Permit: Upon inspection by the health
authority, if it is found that any provisions of this chapter or any permit
specifications for a stated property have been violated, the health authority
shall notify the installer to make such specified changes in the work to allow
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the permit. If such changes
are not made within a period of time specified by the health authority, said
permit shall be suspended, and it shall be unlawful to place the water well
into operation. (Ord. 2015-001, 1-13-2015)
5-3-11: DISINFECTION AND ANALYSIS:
   A.   Disinfection And Analysis Required: All components of a new water well
construction and/or modification shall be thoroughly disinfected with a strong
chlorine solution which will yield a dosage of at least one hundred (100) parts
per million (ppm) to the water in the well. After purging the system of any
chlorine residual, a water sample shall be taken and satisfactory
bacteriological results, as confirmed by a certified laboratory, shall be
obtained prior to utilizing the water system for drinking and culinary
purposes. A "certified laboratory" shall mean a laboratory given certification
approval by the aforementioned agency for analyzing samples of water for
potable use.
   B.   Approval: No well, or private water supply system including surface
source water system, will be approved until an analysis of a water sample
collected by the Grundy County health department after disinfection and pumping
shows the water to be safe for drinking. Coliform and nitrate tests shall be
within approved standards before new homes are occupied.
   C.   Continuing Analysis: It shall be the duty of every owner of every water
well serving a semiprivate water system for more than one residence to have the
water therein bacteriologically analyzed by a certified laboratory as required
by the health authority for the protection of public health. Such water shall
also be bacteriologically analyzed whenever the water lines are opened up for
repair, replacement, or extension of the water distribution system. The water
from a semiprivate water system shall meet the nitrate, chemical and
bacteriological requirements contained in the drinking water systems code.
(Ord. 2015-001, 1-13-2015)
5-3-12: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, which violation
constitutes a violation of any rule, regulation, order or determination of the
state department of public health, adopted or made by said department pursuant
to this chapter, shall be guilty of a class A misdemeanor and fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each day's violation constitutes a separate
offense. (Ord. 2015-001, 1-13-2015)
5-3-13: FEES:
   A.   Required permit fees are determined by ordinance of the Grundy County
board of health and the Grundy County board.
   B.   Nonpermit associated water sample collection and testing of a private
water supply is a service that may be offered to the public for a fee as
established by ordinance of the Grundy County board of health and the Grundy
County board.
   C.   Private water well evaluations are services offered to the public for a
fee as established by ordinance of the Grundy County board of health and the
Grundy County board. (Ord. 2015-001, 1-13-2015)
CHAPTER 4
HIGHWAY ACCESS REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. BACKGROUND
SECTION:
5-4A-1: Title
5-4A-2: Intent And Purpose
5-4A-3: Definitions
5-4A-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the GRUNDY COUNTY HIGHWAY ACCESS REGULATION
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4A-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent of this chapter is to provide and manage access to land development,
while preserving the regional flow of traffic in terms of safety, capacity and
speed. Major thoroughfares, including routes on the county highway system and
other proposed facilities on the local system, serve as the primary network for
moving people and goods. These transportation corridors also provide access to
businesses and homes and have served and will continue to serve as the focus
for commercial and residential development. If access systems are not properly
designed, these thoroughfares will be unable to accommodate the access needs of
development and retain their primary transportation function. This chapter
balances the right of reasonable access to private property, with the right of
citizens of Grundy County and the state of Illinois to safe and efficient
travel.
To achieve this policy intent, local thoroughfares have been categorized by
function and classified for access purposes based on the level of importance as
it applies to the level of regional traffic. Regulations have been applied to
these thoroughfares for the purposes of reducing traffic accidents, personal
injury, and property damage attributable to poorly designed access systems. The
regulations also promote the orderly layout and use of land adjacent to county
highways. Finally, these access management measures will protect the
substantial public investment in the existing transportation system and reduce
the need for expensive remedial measures. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4A-3: DEFINITIONS:
AASHTO: The American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials.
ABUTTING: Having a common border with, or being separated from such common
border by an alley or easement.
ACCESS: A way or means of approach to provide vehicular or pedestrian entrance
or exit to a property.
ACCESS CLASSIFICATION: A ranking system for roadways used to determine the
appropriate degree of access management.
ACCESS MANAGEMENT: The process of providing and managing access to land
development while preserving the regional flow of traffic in terms of safety,
capacity and speed.
ACCESS PERMIT: A permit issued by Grundy County highway department providing
ingress or egress or both from abutting property along a county highway.
AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (ADT): The number of vehicles traveling in both
directions on a given highway during a twenty four (24) hour period as
determined by Grundy County highway department or Illinois department of
transportation.
CONNECTION SPACING: The distance between access connections, measured from the
closest edge of pavement of the first connection to the closest edge of
pavement of the second connection along the edge of the traveled way.
CONTRACTOR: A person, firm or corporation engaged in construction or
landscaping and licensed to do business in the state of Illinois.
CORNER CLEARANCE: The distance from an intersection of a public or private road
to the nearest access connection, measured from the closest edge of pavement of
the intersection to the closest edge of pavement of the connection along the
edge of the traveled way.
COUNTY: Grundy County, Illinois.
COUNTY BOARD: The county board of Grundy County, Illinois.
COUNTY ENGINEER: The county engineer of Grundy County, Illinois.
COUNTY HIGHWAY: A public road as defined by the Illinois highway code, and part
of the county highway system, including municipal extensions thereof, and any
proposed roads as yet unbuilt but designated as part of the county highway
system.
CROSS ACCESS: A service drive providing vehicular access between two (2) or
more contiguous sites so that the driver need not enter the public street
system.
DEDICATION: The transfer of property interests from private to public ownership
for a public purpose. The transfer instrument may be of fee simple interest or
of a lesser interest, including easements.
DEVELOPER: The legal or beneficial owner of a lot or parcel of any land
proposed for inclusion in a development, including the holder of an option or
contract to purchase. The developer may also be the owner.
EASEMENT: A grant of one or more property rights by a property owner to or for
the use by the public, or another person or entity.
EDGE OF PAVEMENT (EOP): Edge of a driving lane of the traveled roadway.
ENGINEER: A registered engineer licensed to practice in the state of Illinois.
FIELD ENTRANCE: Access for agricultural purposes only, but excluding all
agricultural business operations, such as tree nurseries.
FREEWAY: A highway designated by the county board as a freeway in accordance
with article 8 of the Illinois highway code.
FRONTAGE: The distance, as measured along the highway right of way line,
between the property lines of the abutting properties.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A public or private drive which generally parallels a public
thoroughfare between the right of way and the front of the building.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
JOINT ACCESS (SHARED ACCESS): An access point that connects two (2) or more
contiguous sites to the public street system.
LATERAL ACCESS: Access connection onto a road or street that enters or crosses
a county highway.
LOT: A parcel, tract, or area of land whose boundaries have been established by
some legal instrument, which is recognized as a separate legal entity for the
purposes of transfer to title, has frontage upon a public or private street,
and complies with the dimensional requirements of this code and the subdivision
regulations of Grundy County.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting on two (2) or more roads at their juncture.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between side lot lines measured parallel to
the front lot line at the minimum required front setback line.
MAJOR USE GENERATOR: A land use that generates more than one thousand five
hundred (1,500) vehicle trips per day or more than four hundred (400) trips in
a peak hour, total in both directions.
MEDIAN OPENING: An opening in a restrictive median that allows all turning
movements from the roadway and the intersecting road or access connection.
MINIMUM USE GENERATOR: A single-family residence or other land use that
generates fifty (50) or less vehicle trips per day, and not more than five (5)
trips in the peak hour, total in both directions.
MINOR USE GENERATOR: A land use that generates between fifty one (51) and one
thousand five hundred (1,500) vehicle trips per day and less than four hundred
(400) trips in the peak hour, total in both directions.
NONCONFORMING ACCESS FEATURES: Features of the access system of a property that
existed prior to the date of adoption hereof and do not conform to the
requirements of this code.
NONRESTRICTIVE MEDIAN: A median or painted centerline that does not provide a
physical barrier between traffic traveling in opposite directions or turning
left, including continuous center turn lanes and undivided roads.
ON SYSTEM ROAD: A transportation facility identified in this chapter in which
access is regulated under the terms of this chapter or through an
intergovernmental agreement with the appropriate local agency.
PEAK HOUR VOLUME: The highest hourly vehicular volume observed, or anticipated,
at the point of analysis during a normal day.
PLANNING AND ZONING DIRECTOR: The planning and zoning director of Grundy
County.
PLAT: An exact and detailed map of the subdivision of land.
PRIVATE ROAD: Any road or thoroughfare for vehicular travel that is privately
owned and maintained and which provides the principal means of access to
abutting properties.
PUBLIC ROAD: A road under the jurisdiction of a public body that provides the
principal means of access to an abutting property.
REASONABLE ACCESS: The minimum number of access connections, direct or
indirect, necessary to provide safe access to and from the thoroughfare, as
consistent with the purpose and intent of this code and any applicable plans
and policies of Grundy County.
RECORDER: The recorder of deeds of Grundy County, Illinois.
RESTRICTIVE MEDIAN: A physical barrier in the roadway that separates traffic
traveling in opposite directions, such as a concrete barrier or landscaped
island.
RIGHT OF WAY: Land reserved, used or to be used for a highway, street, alley,
walkway, drainage facility or other public purpose.
SIGNIFICANT CHANGE IN TRIP GENERATION: A change in the use of the property,
including land, structure, or facilities, or an expansion of the size of the
structures or facilities causing an increase in the trip generation of the
property to exceed twenty five percent (25%) more trips generated (either peak
or daily) with at least a one hundred (100) vehicles per day increase.
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: The most recent edition of the "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" and also included by
reference, the most recent editions of the "Supplemental Specifications And
Recurring Special Provisions", the "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control
Items", and all amendments and successor documents to the aforementioned
documents as published by Illinois department of transportation.
STOPPING SIGHT DISTANCE: The distance, assumed for design purposes, that a
vehicle traveling at the design speed can stop.
SUBDIVISION: Any division or redivision of a parcel of land into two (2) or
more parts by means of mapping, platting, conveyance, change or rearrangement
of boundaries.
SURVEYOR: An individual registered and licensed as a land surveyor in the state
of Illinois.
THROAT LENGTH: That distance from the edge of pavement of the collector street
to the first point of access, circulation, or parking of the development.
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY: A comprehensive collection and analysis of all
information necessary to accurately evaluate the effect and impact of traffic
generated by a development on the current and future highway network
surrounding the development. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
ARTICLE B. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-4B-1: Authority
5-4B-2: Conformance With Plans And Regulations
5-4B-3: Jurisdiction
5-4B-4: Nonconforming Access
5-4B-5: Access Permits
5-4B-6: Site Plan Requirements
5-4B-7: Approval
5-4B-8: Criteria For Denial
5-4B-9: Costs
5-4B-10: Variances
5-4B-11: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
5-4B-12: Permits Required By Other Regulating Agencies
5-4B-1: AUTHORITY:
   A.   605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-201 et seq., as amended, provide for
the county board and the county engineer to have supervision of county
highways. This chapter is hereby adopted to provide and manage access to land
development, while preserving the regional flow of traffic in terms of safety,
capacity and speed.
   B.   605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-413 provides that access roads and
driveways for private and public use may, upon receipt of a permit from the
county engineer, be laid out from a county highway in accordance with
regulations adopted by the county board. This chapter implements that law but
does not limit nor restrict the county insofar as other sections of the
Illinois highway code pertaining to access might apply.
   C.   765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 205/2 requires that written approval be
obtained from the appropriate local highway authority regarding highway access
prior to final approval and recording of a plat. For Grundy County highways,
that local highway authority shall be the county engineer.
   D.   605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-101 et al. grants county boards the
authority to designate highways under their jurisdiction as freeways. For
highways so designated, the county board shall have full authority to allow or
deny any means or enlarge or extend any existing means of ingress to or egress
from abutting land. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4B-2: CONFORMANCE WITH PLANS AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   This chapter is adopted as a supplement to the zoning ordinance and
subdivision regulations.
   B.   In addition, this chapter conforms to the following transportation
goals of the Chicago area transportation study and the Northeastern Illinois
planning commission as outlined in the "Destination 2020 Regional
Transportation Plan":
      1.   Preserve the region's transportation system and maximize its
efficiency for carrying people and goods;
      2.   Provide for a transportation system that fosters economic
development;
      3.   Provide for the development and preservation of a transportation
system which meets the region's transportation needs, efficiently uses
financial resources and is financially attainable.
   C.   This chapter substantially conforms to the planning policies of
Illinois department of transportation set forth in the "Illinois State
Transportation Plan", the roadway classification system and standards of IDOT.
   D.   This chapter also conforms to the policy and planning directives of the
transportation equity act for the 21st century (TEA-21) which encourages the
use of access management techniques as a congestion management strategy. (Ord.
2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4B-3: JURISDICTION:
   A.   This chapter shall apply to all vehicular transportation facilities
under the jurisdiction of Grundy County as designated in article C of this
chapter. It shall also apply to those highways and corridors on the local
system identified herein, and other facilities as yet not built but identified
as regionally significant, insofar as this chapter is not inconsistent with
comprehensive plans of the affected local agencies, and providing the terms and
conditions of access are identified in an intergovernmental agreement of the
parties involved.
   B.   For county highways located within corporate limits, the conditions,
specifications and requirements of this chapter shall apply as they relate to
those improvements and spacing requirements within the county highway rights of
way. Requirements and recommendations for those improvements located outside
county highway rights of way shall not apply, unless an intergovernmental
agreement between the county and the affected local agency would compel the
developer to adhere to the terms of this code. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4B-4: NONCONFORMING ACCESS:
   A.   Permitted access connections in place as of October 8, 2013, that do
not conform to the standards herein shall be designated as nonconforming
features and shall be brought into compliance with applicable standards under
the following conditions:
      1.   When new access connection permits are requested;
      2.   Substantial enlargements or improvements in which a ten percent
(10%) increase in existing square footage or fifty percent (50%) increase in
assessed valuation of the structure occurs;
      3.   Changes in land use or facilities that create a significant change
in trip generations, providing that change is at least one hundred (100)
vehicles per day.
   B.   If the principal activity on a property with nonconforming access
features is discontinued for a consecutive period of three hundred sixty five
(365) days, or discontinued for any period of time without a present intention
of resuming that activity, then that property must thereafter be brought into
conformity with all applicable connection spacing and design requirements,
unless otherwise exempted by the permitting authority. For uses that are vacant
or discontinued upon the effective date of this code, the three hundred sixty
five (365) day period begins on the effective date of this code. (Ord. 2013-
014, 10-8-2013)
5-4B-5: ACCESS PERMITS:
An access permit is a legal document granting permission to construct and
operate an access connection of a certain basic design at a specific location
on a county highway. The permit, contained herein, is required for the
construction of any new access connection or the significant modification of
any existing access connection within the right of way of any county highway or
"on system" local street. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4B-6: SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   When required by the county engineer, applicants for an access permit
shall submit a site plan for review by the Grundy County highway department.
The site plan will include the following applicable information:
      1.   Location of access point(s) on both sides of the road where
applicable;
      2.   Distances to neighboring constructed access points, median openings,
traffic signals, intersections, and other transportation features on both sides
of the property;
      3.   Number and direction of lanes to be constructed on the access point
plus striping plans;
      4.   All planned transportation features (such as auxiliary lanes,
signals, etc.);
      5.   Trip generation data or appropriate traffic studies, if required by
the county engineer;
      6.   Parking and internal circulation plans;
      7.   Plat map showing property lines, right of way and ownership of
abutting properties;
      8.   A detailed description of any requested variances and the reason the
variance is requested.
Access permits for major and minor use generators will require the development
and approval of detailed engineering plans and specifications.
   B.   Subdivision and site plan review shall address the following access
considerations:
      1.   Is the system designed to meet the projected traffic demand and does
the road network consist of hierarchy of roads designed according to function?
      2.   Does the road network follow the natural topography and preserve
natural features of the site as much as possible? Have alignments been planned
so that grading requirements are minimized?
      3.   Is access properly placed in relation to sight distance, driveway
spacing, and other related consideration, including opportunities for joint and
cross access? Do access connections "line up" with access connections on the
other side of the street?
      4.   Do residential units front on residential streets rather than major
roadways?
      5.   Is automobile movement within the site provided without having to
use the peripheral road network?
      6.   Does the road system provide adequate access to buildings for
residents, visitors, deliveries, emergency vehicles, and garbage collection?
      7.   Have bicycle and pedestrian facilities been provided at a reasonable
and safe distance from the traveled way, preferably outside the county right of
way? (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4B-7: APPROVAL:
   A.   Upon review of the access application, Grundy County highway department
may approve the access application, approve with conditions, or deny the
application. This will be done within ninety (90) days of receiving the
complete application.
   B.   If the application is approved with conditions, the applicant shall
resubmit the plan with the conditional changes made within sixty (60) days. The
plan, with submitted changes, will be reviewed within thirty (30) working days
and approved or rejected. Second applications will only be rejected if
conditional changes are not made.
   C.   If the access permit is denied, Grundy County highway department shall
provide an itemized letter detailing why the application was rejected.
   D.   All applicants whose application is approved, or approved with
conditions, have thirty (30) days to accept the permit and twelve (12) months
to construct all permitted facilities. Applicants whose permits are rejected or
approved with conditions have sixty (60) days to appeal. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-
2013)
5-4B-8: CRITERIA FOR DENIAL:
   A.   Direct access to a county highway shall be denied when a proposed
access connection does not meet spacing standards and reasonable access can be
provided elsewhere. Reasonable access may include the use of a roadway with a
lower classification or a system of joint use driveways and cross access
agreements.
   B.   Direct access to a county highway shall be denied when proposals call
for more than one access per property onto a county highway or contiguous
properties with less than the minimum unsignalized spacing requirements as
listed in section
5-4D-3, exhibit 2, of this chapter, and reasonable access can be provided
elsewhere. Reasonable access may include the use of a roadway with a lower
classification or a system of joint use driveways and cross access agreements.
   C.   Direct access to a county highway shall be denied when a proposed
access cannot meet design or safety requirements as outlined herein and in
accordance with Illinois department of transportation standards. (Ord. 2013-
014, 10-8-2013)
5-4B-9: COSTS:
All costs associated with the design and/or construction of a new access, or
modification of an existing access, including pavement widening, drainage
appurtenances, turning lanes, signal installation or modification, striping,
engineering plans, material testing, etc., shall be borne by the developer,
owner or applicant. The developer, owner or applicant shall also pay for
additional traffic impact analyses or safety studies and the review of these
studies by a traffic engineer retained by the county, when required by the
county engineer. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4B-10: VARIANCES:
   A.   The granting of variances shall be in harmony with the purpose and
intent of these regulations and shall not be considered until every feasible
option for meeting access standards is explored.
   B.   Applicants for a variance from these standards must provide proof of
unique or special conditions that make strict applications of the provisions
impractical. This shall include proof that:
      1.   Indirect or restricted access cannot be obtained;
      2.   No engineering or construction solutions can be applied to mitigate
the condition;
      3.   No alternative access is available from the street with a lower
functional classification than the primary roadway and joint or cross access is
not available.
   C.   Applicants shall submit their variance request to the county engineer
within sixty (60) days after the denial of an access permit. The county
engineer shall have the authority to grant variances of up to ten percent (10%)
for the access classification spacing standards, and other minor variances as
necessary. All other variance requests, including denied minor variances, shall
come before the county board. A concurring vote of the majority of the county
board is required to grant these variances or overturn the denial of access by
the county engineer.
   D.   Under no circumstances shall a variance be granted, unless not granting
the variance would deny all reasonable access, endanger public health, welfare
or safety, or cause an exceptional and undue hardship on the applicant. No
variance shall be granted where such hardship is self-created. (Ord. 2013-014,
10-8-2013)
5-4B-11: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   An applicant shall notify the county no less than thirty (30) days
prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility or other interests in the
right of way or change in identity of the applicant. The new owner shall have
all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former owner under the
permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations,
including these regulations, with respect to the work and facilities in the
right of way.
   B.   A new owner shall request that any current permit be amended to show
current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or amended permit
issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have accepted, and
agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if the new owner
uses the facility or other interests or allows it to remain on the county's
right of way.
   C.   All required insurance coverage or bonding must be changed to reflect
the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4B-12: PERMITS REQUIRED BY OTHER REGULATING AGENCIES:
The applicant is responsible to apply for and receive approval for any other
permits that are required by any other regulating agency with jurisdiction over
the project site (i.e., DNR, EPA, U.S. army corps, soil conservation district,
drainage district, etc.). Any penalties, fines or delays from failing to get
said permits shall be the responsibility of the applicant. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-
8-2013)
ARTICLE C. COUNTY HIGHWAY SYSTEM CLASSIFICATION
SECTION:
5-4C-1: On System Roads
5-4C-2: Highway Access Classifications
5-4C-1: ON SYSTEM ROADS:
The Grundy County highway system shall include all county highways and freeways
as defined by the Illinois highway code. For the purposes of access control,
this chapter shall also be applicable for those highways, other than county
highways, that are regionally significant, or have been identified as future
regionally significant corridors, insofar as this chapter is not inconsistent
with comprehensive plans of the affected local agencies, and providing the
terms and conditions of access are identified in an intergovernmental agreement
of the parties involved. "On system roads" have been identified in section
5-4C-2, exhibit 1, of this article. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4C-2: HIGHWAY ACCESS CLASSIFICATIONS:
   A.   The access classifications, as listed in exhibit 1 of this section,
have been assigned to all Grundy County highways and regionally significant
corridors within the planning area of Grundy County. This classification system
is to be used to establish the proper standards for access to each highway and
the regulation of land abutting the highway as it applies to access control.
Factors considered in assigning access classification include the functional
classification as defined by the Illinois department of transportation,
subdivision of abutting properties, anticipated future significance, and
existing level of access control.
Access 1: This classification shall be used for the highest level of access
control on regionally significant highways designed for relatively high speeds
and high volume traffic movements. These highways are distinguished by a system
of existing or planned service roads, a highly controlled limited number of
connections, median openings, and infrequent traffic signals. This access
classification consists of those roadways now designated or potentially
designated as strategic regional arterials and other arterials that have need
of a highly restricted classification.
Access 2: This classification shall be used for facilities where direct access
to abutting land is controlled to maximize the through movement of traffic.
These significant highways are characterized by relatively high speeds, high
volume traffic movements, and substantial distances between intersections,
signals and driveway connections. Existing land use along these facilities has
not been built out to its maximum capability, and there is a high probability
of significant land use change.
Access 3: As in access 1 and access 2 roads, this classification shall be used
for facilities where direct access to abutting land is controlled to maximize
the through movement of traffic, but to a lesser degree. These facilities are
locally significant and are distinguished by relatively high speeds, moderate
traffic volumes and a moderate chance of significant land use change.
Access 4: This classification shall be used for facilities where direct access
to abutting land is controlled to some degree to maximize the through movement
of traffic. These facilities are locally significant and are distinguished by
relatively high speeds, low traffic volumes and a low chance of significant
land use change. Access limitations are applied to a lesser degree in this
class due to the infrequency of turning movement conflicts.
Access 5: This classification shall be used for facilities that have
experienced or will experience a great deal of build out, and the regional
movement of traffic is not a priority. These facilities are often in or near
corporate limits and serve residential or commercial developments. Moderate to
low speeds are the norm, even though relatively high traffic volumes may be
present.
EXHIBIT 1
HIGHWAY ACCESS CLASSIFICATIONS
County Highway Road Name From To Classification
County Highway Road Name       From             To               Classification
C16            Sherrill Road   Lisbon Road      Ashley Road      3
C16            O'Brien Road    Minooka Road     Sherrill Road    3
C16            Minooka Road    O'Brien Road     Tabler Road      3
C16            McEvilly/       Ridge Road       Bell Road        3
               Channahon Road
C26            Marseilles Road LaSalle Road     Route 6          3
C28            Old Stage Road  Morris limits    Seneca limits    3
C29            Pine Bluff Road Route 47         Will Road        2
C34            West DuPont     LaSalle County   Route 47         3
               Road            line
C34            East DuPont     Route 47         Higgins Road     4
               Road
C34            Higgins Road    DuPont Road      Route 113        4
C37            Reed Road       Broadway Road    I-55             3
C41            W. Grand Ridge  LaSalle Road     Dwight Road      3
               Road
C41            E. Grand Ridge  Route 47         Tynan Road       3
               Road
C41            Tynan Road      Braceville Road  Grand Ridge Road 3
C41            Braceville Road Tynan Road       Illinois 129     3
C49            W. Gardner Road Illinois Route   LaSalle Road     3
                               47
C49            E. Gardner Road Route 47         Illinois Route   3
                                                53
C50            Storm Road      Rice Road        Route 53         3
C50            Rice Road       Storm Road       Kankakee Road    3
T64            Kinsman Road    Gardner Road     Grand Ridge Road 3
T64            Johnny Run Road Livingston Road  Gardner Road     4
T66            Gonnam Road     Grand Ridge Road DuPont Road      4
V10            Verona Road     Mine Road        Grand Ridge Road 3
V10            Mine Road       Division Street  Verona Road      3
V10            Division Road   Vienna Street    Mine Road        3
V12            Saratoga Road   Old Stage Road   Route 6          3
V15            Lisbon Road     1/4 mile N. Gore Sherrill Road    3
                               Road
V16            Dwight Road     Lowery Road      DuPont Road      4
V16            Lowery Road     Dwight Road      Route 113        4
V27            Brisbin Road    US Route 6       Sherrill Road    2
V29            Gorman Road     Route 113        Braceville Road  3
V29            Gorman Road     Braceville Road  Gardner Road     4
V32            Campus Road     Livingston Road  Route 53         3
V34            Carbon Hill     Braceville Road  Old Route 129    3
               Road
V36            Broadway Road   Spring Road      Braceville Road  3
V37            Ridge Road      Route 6          Mondamin Street  2
V37            Livingston Road Reddick Road     Route 17         4
               Lincoln,
V37            Reddick,        Livingston Road  Rice Road        4
               Stonewall Roads
V38            Dresden Road    North Street     Pine Bluff Road  3
V41            Kankakee Road   Smith Road       Stonewall Road   3
 
Note: All state highways outside of any corporate limits shall have an access
classification of 2. Access permits from state highways must be obtained from
the Illinois department of transportation.
(Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
ARTICLE D. ACCESS POLICIES AND STANDARDS
SECTION:
5-4D-1: Right Of Way Dedication
5-4D-2: Internal Circulation Of Streets
5-4D-3: Spacing Standards For Access Connections
5-4D-4: Unsignalized Spacing Of Access Connections
5-4D-5: Signalized Spacing Of Access Connections
5-4D-6: Corner Clearance
5-4D-7: Sight Distance Requirements
5-4D-8: Turning Lane Requirements
5-4D-1: RIGHT OF WAY DEDICATION:
The minimum county highway right of way requirement is eighty feet (80'),
however, the right of way may be more for roadways which have corridor access
studies or as required by the county engineer. If the property abutting a
county highway is to be subdivided, or an access is being requested, the
developer/owner shall dedicate at no cost to the county, sufficient land to
satisfy the right of way requirement. In the event that the construction of
turning lanes or publicly maintained drainage facilities and appurtenances
would extend outside the limits of the minimum right of way requirements,
additional right of way shall be dedicated to include the improvements. Right
of way shall be provided in fee simple title. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4D-2: INTERNAL CIRCULATION OF STREETS:
In general terms, properties abutting county highways shall provide access from
a single access point on the county highway or from joint/cross access.
Internal streets shall provide for the efficient flow of traffic and provide
access to individual residences or commercial establishments. Where properties
abut two (2) highway facilities, access should be provided from the lesser
traveled way. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4D-3: SPACING STANDARDS FOR ACCESS CONNECTIONS:
   A.   All connections on facility segments that have been assigned an access
classification shall meet or exceed the minimum connection spacing requirements
of that access classification as specified in exhibit 2 of this section.
Spacing shall be measured from the closest edge of the pavement to the next
closest edge of the pavement.
EXHIBIT 2
ACCESS CLASSIFICATION SPACING STANDARDS
 
Highway        Signalized Unsignalized Spacing (Minimum)   Corner     Lateral
Classification Spacing    Public     Private    Route In/  Clearance2 Access
               (Minimum)  Street     Access     Route Out1
Access 1       2,640 feet 2,640 feet 2,640 feet 500 feet   300 feet   250 feet
Access 2       1,320 feet 1,320 feet 1,320 feet 400 feet   250 feet   150 feet
Access 3       1,320 feet 1,320 feet 1,000 feet 300 feet   200 feet   150 feet
Access 4       n/a        1,000 feet 500 feet   n/a        n/a        150 feet
Access 5       1,000 feet 750 feet   250 feet   n/a        100 feet   100 feet
 
Notes:
   1.    Only one route in/route out will be allowed between full access
intersections.
   2.    For right in/right out access only.
(Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4D-4: UNSIGNALIZED SPACING OF ACCESS CONNECTIONS:
   A.   The spacing of unsignalized public streets, private driveways and other
access connections shall meet or exceed the minimum unsignalized spacing
requirement for each access classification as listed in section
5-4D-3, exhibit 2, of this article.
   B.   Properties with frontage on a county highway shall be looked at in
aggregate as it relates to unsignalized access spacing. Coordination with
adjacent property owners may be required to meet the requirements of this
chapter. Properties that do not have sufficient frontage to qualify for access
shall first attempt to gain access from a lesser traveled, intersecting street.
In the absence of another street, access from a common driveway shall be
pursued.
   C.   Field entrances are exempt from spacing standards; however, said
entrances shall not be available for any other use except agricultural.
Agricultural businesses such as tree nurseries are not exempt. Properties that
are rezoned or have a significant change in trip generation shall not retain
any right to use existing field entrances without the express written consent
of the county engineer. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4D-5: SIGNALIZED SPACING OF ACCESS CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Access connections shall be designed such that the distance between
those which will warrant signalization shall meet or exceed the minimum
signalized spacing requirement for each access classification as listed in
section
5-4D-3, exhibit 2, of this article.
   B.   The spacing of signalized access connections will be of a uniform or
near uniform distance to promote efficient traffic flow. In urban areas, where
traffic signals are prevalent, interconnection of signals is encouraged and
will be required when a new signal is installed within one-half (1/2) mile of
an existing signal in order to promote the free flow of traffic. (Ord. 2013-
014, 10-8-2013)
5-4D-6: CORNER CLEARANCE:
   A.   Corner clearance for private access connections shall meet or exceed
the minimum unsignalized spacing for each access classification as listed in
section
5-4D-3, exhibit 2, of this article unless a right in/right out access is
constructed. Right in/right out access shall meet the corner clearance
distances listed in section
5-4D-3, exhibit 2, of this article. The projected edge of the pavement of the
access connection shall be used in measuring corner clearance from the edge of
pavement of the intersecting road.
   B.   New connections shall not be permitted within the functional area of an
intersection or interchange as defined by the connection spacing standards of
this code, unless:
      1.   No other reasonable access to the property is available, and
      2.   The county engineer determines that the connection does not create a
safety or operational problem upon the review of a site specific study of the
proposed connection prepared by a registered engineer and submitted by the
applicant. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4D-7: SIGHT DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   An access shall be located at the point of optimum, intersection sight
distance along a property frontage. Safe intersection sight distances are
presented in exhibit 3 of this section.
EXHIBIT 3
SIGHT DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCESS CONNECTIONS
 
Design Speed 30       35       40       45       50       55         60
Intersection
sight        410 feet 530 feet 660 feet 840 feet 1,035    1,240 feet 1,470 feet
distance                                         feet
required
Minimum
stopping     200 feet 250 feet 325 feet 400 feet 475 feet 550 feet   650 feet
sight
distance
 
Notes:
Intersection sight distance shown is for a stopped passenger car to turn left
onto a 2-lane highway with no median and grades 3 percent or less. For other
conditions, the gap time must be adjusted and required sight distance
recalculated.
Source: AASHTO "A Policy On Geometric Design Of Highways And Streets".
   B.   Should the intersection sight distances be physically unobtainable,
then the access connection shall be at a location that provides the sight
distance closest to that required, provided that the minimum stopping sight
distance from exhibit 3 of this section is met or exceeded. In such cases it
will be at the discretion of the county engineer to determine whether a safe
sight distance exists and whether an access connection will be permitted.
   C.   If it is determined that inadequate sight distance exists for any
turning or crossing movements, the access connection shall be designed to
prohibit such movements by the use of islands, signs, and pavement markers. If
it is determined that a safe sight distance is not available at a point along
the property frontage within at least eighty percent (80%) of the spacing
requirements, access may be allowed, at the developer's expense, in one of the
following ways:
      1.   Redesign or reconstruct the existing county highway to correct sight
distance deficiencies.
      2.   Develop access to another roadway.
      3.   Develop indirect access via a frontage road.
      4.   Develop indirect access via a joint or cross access easement with an
adjacent property. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4D-8: TURNING LANE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Developments abutting county highways may be required to provide a
right turn lane and/or left turn lane along the county highway to provide
additional capacity at the access for heavy right or left turning movements and
to increase operational safety by removing turning vehicles from the path of
through traffic. Turning lanes should be designed to the same standards as
turning lanes found at public intersections. The improvements shall be designed
to a level of service C 1  or better for all traffic movements. The
improvements shall be designed for a projected traffic volume of twenty (20)
years beyond the expected year of construction.
   B.   Right turn deceleration lanes should be installed at an access on a
county highway if the average daily two-way volume at the access is at least
one thousand (1,000) vehicles (including traffic generated by the maximum built
out of the development utilizing the access) and the average peak hour entering
right turn volume is at least twenty (20) vehicles. Other factors such as the
highway design speed, the number of highway approach lanes, composition of
access traffic, and adjacent highway alignment should influence the need for a
deceleration lane regardless of whether the volumes mentioned above are or are
not met. When a deceleration lane is installed at an access, no other access
should intersect the street within the deceleration lane or approach taper to
the lane.
   C.   A left turn lane is an auxiliary lane for storage or speed change for
left turning vehicles. This type of auxiliary lane is located at the left of
one-directional pavement within a median or divisional island. Serious hazard,
inconvenience, and considerable loss in efficiency of operation are evident on
highways where such lanes are not available. Left turn lanes, therefore, will
be mandatory for all major and minor use generators.
The left turn lane should be sufficiently long to store the number of vehicles
likely to accumulate during a critical period. The storage length should be
liberal to avoid the possibility of left turning vehicles stopping in the
through lanes. The storage length should be sufficiently long so the entrance
to the left lane is not blocked by vehicles standing in the through lanes
waiting for a signal change or for a gap in the opposing traffic flow.
At unsignalized intersections, the storage length, exclusive of taper, may be
based on the composition and number of turning vehicles likely to arrive in an
average two (2) minute period within peak hour. As a minimum requirement, a one
hundred fifteen foot (115') (or current IDOT policy, whichever is greater)
storage space shall be used.
At signalized intersections, the required storage length depends on the signal
cycle length, the signal phasing arrangement, and the rate of arrivals and
departures of left turning vehicles. The storage length should usually be based
on one and one-half (11/2) to two (2) times the average number of vehicles that
would be stored per cycle, which is predicted on the design volume. This length
will be sufficient to serve heavy surges that occur from time to time. (Ord.
2013-014, 10-8-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. "Institute Of Transportation Engineers - Trip Generation Handbook".
ARTICLE E. DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
5-4E-1: Design Publications
5-4E-2: Pavement Standards
5-4E-3: Drainage Standards
5-4E-4: Access Geometrics
5-4E-1: DESIGN PUBLICATIONS:
   A.   The design of access and accompanying highway improvements shall comply
with the standards and specifications set forth in this chapter, which will
take precedence over all other publications. In the absence of specific
guidance, the latest edition of the following IDOT and AASHTO policies shall
govern.
   B.   IDOT publications:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction".
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions".
      3.   IDOT design manual.
      4.   Manual of policies and procedures (bureau of location and
environment).
      5.   Highway standards.
      6.   Illinois "Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices" for streets and
highways.
      7.   Policy on permits for access driveways to state highways.
      8.   Traffic control plans for local agency construction projects.
      9.   Culvert manual.
      10.   Manual of instruction for the structural design of flexible
pavements.
      11.   Administrative policies.
      12.   Coded pay item book (bureau of design).
      13.   Guide to the hydraulic design of bridges and culverts on local
systems.
   C.   AASHTO publications:
      1.   "A Policy On Geometric Design Of Highways And Streets" (AASHTO
"Green Book").
      2.   "Guide For Selecting, Locating And Designing Traffic Barriers".
      3.   "Highway Design And Operational Practices Related To Highway
Safety". (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4E-2: PAVEMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Access connections for minor and major use generators that fall within
county highways rights of way shall have pavements that have been designed in
accordance with IDOT specifications for flexible pavement design, or as
required by the county engineer. In lieu of a formal pavement design and soil
investigation, pavements shall consist of four inches (4") aggregate subbase,
six inches (6") bituminous base course, two and one-half inches (21/2")
bituminous binder, and one and one-half inches (11/2") bituminous surface
course. Access connections for minimum use generators shall have a minimum of
nine inches (9") of crushed aggregate base course. Reclaimed asphalt may be
used in lieu of CA-6 stone for the bottom fifty percent (50%) if the material's
gradation falls within IDOT's CA-6 gradation specification.
   B.   All turning lanes shall have a minimum lane width of twelve feet (12').
Taper rates shall be in accordance with IDOT standards for the appropriate
operating speed of the through street. Pavement crown shall be three-sixteenths
inch (3/16") per foot.
   C.   When required, pavement striping plans shall be submitted to the county
engineer and approved prior to the commencement of work. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-
2013)
5-4E-3: DRAINAGE STANDARDS:
   A.   All drainage systems shall be in compliance with the Grundy County
stormwater ordinance.
   B.   Access must be constructed to not adversely affect the highway drainage
or drainage of the adjacent property. In no case may the construction of an
access cause water to flow across the highway pavement, or to pond on the
shoulders or in the ditch, or result in erosion within the right of way.
Detention basins, berms, or detention outlet facilities shall not be allowed
within the county highway right of way and must meet the requirements of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   C.   Drainage collected by ditches, gutters, or pipes on private property
shall not be discharged into the highway drainage system unless expressly
approved by the county engineer. The permittee may be required to submit a
drainage study to the county engineer justifying the drainage system proposed
and the pipe or sewer sizes to be used. Drainage for the access shall be
designed in accordance with the requirements of the IDOT "Bureau Of Design And
Environment Manual" and the IDOT "Bridge And Culvert Manual".
   D.   All pipe culverts under access connections to county highways shall be
reinforced concrete pipe of the appropriate class and size, except those pipe
culverts used for field entrances and single-family homes, which may be
corrugated metal pipe. Those entrances requiring concrete pipe shall also have
reinforced concrete flared end sections installed. No pipe culvert shall be
less than fifteen inch (15") inside diameter.
   E.   All pavement and shoulders for access connections shall slope away from
the farthest edge of pavement of the through street at a minimum of one percent
(1%) grade for a minimum distance of ten feet (10') on minimum use generators
and a minimum of twenty five feet (25') for minor or major use generators.
   F.   Earth fore slopes shall have a desired slope of four to one (4:1) and a
minimum slope of three to one (3:1). Back slopes shall be a minimum of three to
one (3:1).
   G.   Seeding, fertilizing, mulching and erosion control shall be provided in
accordance with IDOT standards and good engineering practice. (Ord. 2013-014,
10-8-2013)
5-4E-4: ACCESS GEOMETRICS:
Access connections shall conform to the minimum geometric requirements shown in
exhibit 4 of this section.
EXHIBIT 4
GEOMETRIC REQUIREMENTS
Access Connection Throat Length Minimum Driveway Width  EOP Turning Radii
                                        Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum
Access Connection     Throat Length Minimum Driveway Width  EOP Turning Radii
                                            Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum
Field entrance        n/a                   20 feet 30 feet n/a     n/a
Minimum use generator 50 feet               12 feet 30 feet 10 feet 25 feet
Minor use generator:
   2-way           50 feet               24 feet 40 feet 25 feet 50 feet
   1-way           50 feet               16 feet 25 feet 25 feet 50 feet
Major use generator:
   2-way           100 feet              28 feet 40 feet 30 feet WB-55
   1-way           100 feet              16 feet 30 feet 30 feet WB-55
 
   A.   Throat Length:
      1.   Residential access connections shall be of a sufficient length that
a passenger car can park completely clear of the highway, sidewalk, and right
of way. Access connections that allow vehicles to back out onto the roadway
shall be discouraged.
      2.   Commercial and industrial access connections shall be of a
sufficient length to store exiting vehicles clear of the parking and on site
circulation area of a development. This length will depend on the anticipated
exit queue length during the peak hour as well as the typical vehicle type.
      3.   At major access facilities, a queuing analysis using expected
arrival and departure rates shall be conducted to determine the appropriate
throat length.
   B.   Driveway Widths And Turning Radii: Driveway widths and turning radii
shall be based on the level of access needs and typical vehicle types that use
those access points. In cases where the right of way is narrow, traffic volumes
are large, or speeds are high, upper limit turning radii should be considered
to allow efficient use of access. In general terms, minor use generators shall
utilize a thirty foot (30') radius return, although it could range from fifteen
feet (15') to fifty feet (50'). Major use generators have a target radius
return of forty feet (40'), but may vary from thirty feet (30') to a WB-55
design standard.
   C.   Variation From Standards: Major use generators may require access
requirements which vary from these standards. It is the responsibility of the
developers to design their access facilities to suit their needs and those of
the county highway in accordance with this chapter. Preliminary meetings and/or
conversations between the developer and the county engineer should be held to
discuss locations, basic requirements, and future changes or plans for the
county highway. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
ARTICLE F. ACCESS MANAGEMENT STANDARDS FOR ABUTTING PARCELS
SECTION:
5-4F-1: Joint/Cross Access
5-4F-2: Frontage And Reverse Frontage Roads
5-4F-3: Subdivision And Site Development Policies
5-4F-1: JOINT/CROSS ACCESS:
   A.   A unified access and circulation system plan that includes coordinated
or shared parking area is encouraged wherever feasible.
   B.   Adjacent commercial or office properties designated as major traffic
generators shall provide a cross access drive and pedestrian access to allow
circulation between sites.
   C.   A system of joint use driveways and cross access easements shall be
established wherever feasible, and the building site shall incorporate the
following standards:
      1.   A continuous service drive or cross access corridor extending the
entire length of each block serving to provide for driveway separation
consistent with the access management classification system and standards;
      2.   A design speed of ten (10) miles per hour and sufficient width to
accommodate two-way travel aisles designed to accommodate automobiles, service
vehicles and loading vehicles.
   D.   In accordance with this section, property owners shall:
      1.   Record an easement with the deed allowing cross access to and from
other properties served by the joint use driveways and cross access or service
drives.
      2.   Record an agreement with the deed that remaining access rights along
the thoroughfare will be dedicated to Grundy County, and preexisting driveways
will be closed and eliminated after construction of the joint use driveway.
      3.   Record a joint maintenance agreement with the deed, defining
maintenance responsibilities of property owners.
   E.   The county engineer may modify or waive the requirements of this
section where the characteristics or layout of abutting properties would make
development of a unified or shared access and circulation system impractical.
(Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4F-2: FRONTAGE AND REVERSE FRONTAGE ROADS:
   A.   The separation of frontage roads at cross streets should be maximized
to ensure sufficient storage for crossroad traffic between the frontage road
and the artery. The minimum separation shall be the same as that of the lateral
access spacing for the appropriate classification of roadway, as shown in
section
5-4D-3, exhibit 2, of this chapter.
   B.   Reverse frontage roads are desirable to close-in frontage roads. A
desirable setback distance is five hundred feet (500') with a minimum distance
being the same as that of the lateral access spacing for the appropriate
classification of roadway, as shown in section
5-4D-3, exhibit 2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4F-3: SUBDIVISION AND SITE DEVELOPMENT POLICIES:
   A.   Land use planning, zoning and subdivision regulations of Grundy County
shall be supportive of the restrictive spacing of each access classification,
especially in cases where the roadway is under the jurisdiction of the Grundy
County highway department.
   B.   The minimum lot frontage for access on all parcels adjacent to "on
system" roads shall not be less than the minimum access connection spacing
standards of that thoroughfare. Existing lots with less frontage shall continue
as nonconforming lots until such time that they acquire joint/cross access
easements or are incorporated as part of a larger parcel meeting the minimum
spacing requirements.
   C.   Flag lots shall not be permitted when the effect would be to increase
the number of properties requiring direct and individual access connections to
collector roadways except in instances when a flag lot is deemed necessary to
achieve planning objectives. In such instances, the county engineer shall make
a determination if traffic safety can be maintained. If traffic safety is
determined to be affected in a detrimental way, either with present or future
traffic conditions, the county engineer may deny the access.
   D.   All access to out parcels must be internalized using the shared
circulation system of the principal development. The number of out parcels
shall not exceed one per ten (10) acres of site area, with a minimum frontage
of three hundred feet (300') per out parcel or greater where access spacing
standards for that roadway require. The frontage requirement may be waived
where access is internalized using a shared access system. In such cases the
right of direct access to the roadway shall be dedicated to Grundy County and
recorded with the deed. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
ARTICLE G. ACCESS CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
5-4G-1: Notification
5-4G-2: Traffic Control
5-4G-3: Field Inspections
5-4G-4: Performance Guarantees
5-4G-5: Certificates Of Insurance
5-4G-6: As Built Plans
5-4G-1: NOTIFICATION:
Prior to the commencement of construction operations for access connections to
county highways, notification shall be made to the Grundy County highway
department. This notification shall be at least forty eight (48) hours in
advance of the beginning of work. All required performance guarantees and
certificates of insurance should be in place and on file at highway department
offices prior to the start of any construction operations. In addition,
contractors are required to coordinate their work with local utilities through
the JULIE system. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4G-2: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
At all times during the construction of access connections and related
facilities, the developer or his/her agent shall adhere strictly to the
guidelines established by the Illinois department of transportation for traffic
control. Any encroachment on the pavement surface of the traveled way or within
the county highway right of way shall be protected as detailed in the
appropriate highway standard in an effort to protect both workers and the
traveling public. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4G-3: FIELD INSPECTIONS:
The county will conduct periodic field inspections during construction of the
driveway/access improvements. The access improvements for major and minor use
generators shall also be inspected by the developer's engineer during
construction and upon completion and shall provide the county with a letter
stating the driveway/access improvements have been constructed in accordance
with the approved plans. The county shall then conduct a final inspection of
the improvements and if the improvements are acceptable, issue an acceptance
letter.
The access improvements for major and minor use generators shall also require
material inspection of the subgrade, base course, binder course, surface
course, etc., by a material testing company retained by the county, but paid
for by the developer.
The county shall also inspect the final construction of driveways for minimum
use generators after notification by the owner that the driveway construction
is complete. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4G-4: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES:
   A.   Required: A performance guarantee shall be provided prior to the
construction of any and all access connections on county highways that exceed
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for that part of the improvement within the
county highway right of way. A performance guarantee shall be in the form of a
corporate surety bond, cash bond, or irrevocable letter of credit. For those
connections that are part of a county subdivision (unincorporated), the
performance guarantee shall be included with the performance guarantee for the
entire subdivision, and shall be provided to the Grundy County planning and
zoning administrator. For municipal subdivisions and access connections, a
separate performance guarantee shall be provided to the Grundy County highway
department for the cost of improvements within the county right of way. The
performance guarantee, in all cases, shall be in an amount equal to one hundred
twenty percent (120%) of the estimated cost of construction of improvements
within the county highway right of way.
   B.   Corporate Surety Bond: The county engineer shall approve the form of a
corporate surety bond. The bond shall provide that the developer shall be one
of the principals under said bond and that the surety shall be responsible for
the completion of all improvements within a reasonable time after being
notified that default has been made. The bond shall be made payable to the
county treasurer.
   C.   Cash Bond: In lieu of a corporate surety bond, the developer may post a
cash bond payable to the county treasurer. This bond may be provided in the
form of a cashier's check, bank draft, certified check, or bank money order. A
certificate of deposit will not be accepted.
   D.   Irrevocable Letter Of Credit: An irrevocable letter of credit will be
acceptable provided that said letter of credit receives approval from the
state's attorney.
   E.   Default: If the developer fails to perform the work with sufficient
work force and equipment; or with sufficient materials to ensure the completion
of said work within the specified time; or performs the work unsuitably as
determined by the county engineer; or neglects or refuses materials or performs
anew such work as shall be rejected as defective and unsuitable; or
discontinues the execution of the work; or for any other cause whatsoever does
not carry on the work in an approved manner, the county engineer shall give
notice by registered mail to the developer and his/her surety of such
delinquency, said notice to specify the corrective measures required. After
said notice, the county engineer shall call upon the performance guarantee to
have the work completed in accordance with the terms of the guarantee. The
county engineer shall deliver the funds to the county treasurer and request
deposit in the appropriate fund. The county engineer may then take over the
work, including any or all materials or equipment on the grounds as may be
suitable and acceptable and may complete the work with his/her own forces or
any such other methods as may be required to complete the work in accordance
with the access permit. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4G-5: CERTIFICATES OF INSURANCE:
   A.   Required: Certificates of insurance, as required by this section, shall
be provided to the Grundy County highway department prior to the issuance of an
access permit for the construction or reconstruction of all types of access as
provided for in this chapter. The county engineer may, upon receipt of written
application from a property owner substantiating good and reasonable cause,
waive this requirement for certain minor accesses.
   B.   Responsibility For Damage Claims: The developer shall indemnify and
save harmless the Grundy County highway department and the county, its
officers, agents, and employees against all loss, damage, or expense that it or
they may sustain as a result of any suits, actions, or claims of any character
brought on account of property damage, injury to or death of any person or
persons, including all persons performing any work under the access permit,
which may arise in connection with the work to be performed under the access
permit.
The access permit is not intended by any of the provisions of any part of the
access permit to create the public or any member thereof a third party
beneficiary, or to authorize anyone not a party to the access permit to
maintain a suit for personal injuries or property damage pursuant to the terms
or provisions of the access permit. The duties, obligations, and
responsibilities of the parties to the access permit with respect to third
parties shall remain as imposed by law.
The developer, prior to issuance of an access permit, shall file with the
county engineer copies of completed certificates of insurance indemnifying the
Grundy County highway department, its employees and its agents, and the county
of Grundy, its employees and its agents as additional insured, in a form
satisfactory to the county engineer, to afford protection against all claims
for damages to public or private property, and injuries to persons, arising out
of and during the progress of the work to its completion. The policy of
insurance shall include the Grundy County highway department and county as
additional insured or provide separate coverage with an owner's protective
policy. The county engineer for the following types of insurance shall
determine the minimum amounts of insurance:
 
1. Bodily injury liability   $1,000,000.00 minimum
2. Property damage liability $1,000,000.00 minimum
 
There shall be no restrictions on occurrence limits.
All such insurance shall include an endorsement whereby the insurer agrees to
notify Grundy County highway department at least thirty (30) days prior to
nonrenewal, reduction, or cancellation. The developer shall cease, or cause to
be ceased, operations, work and construction of an improvement if the insurance
is canceled or reduced below the required minimum amount of coverage as
determined by the county engineer.
   C.   Workers' Compensation Insurance: Prior to the issuance of an access
permit, the developer shall furnish to Grundy County highway department
certificates of insurance covering workers' compensation, or satisfactory
evidence that this liability is otherwise taken care of in accordance with
section 4.(a) of the "workman's compensation act of the state of Illinois" as
amended.
Such insurance, or other means of protection as herein provided, shall be kept
in force until all work to be performed under the terms of the access permit
has been completed and accepted, and it is hereby understood and agreed that
the maintenance of such insurance or other protection, until acceptance of the
improvement by Grundy County highway department, is part of the access permit.
Failure to maintain such insurance, cancellation by the industrial commission
of its approval of such other means of protection as might have been elected,
or any other act which results in lack of protection under the said workman's
compensation act may result in the revocation of the access permit. (Ord. 2013-
014, 10-8-2013)
5-4G-6: AS BUILT PLANS:
As built plans must be submitted to the county prior to the release of any
performance guarantee. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
ARTICLE H. ENACTMENT, REPEALER, INTERPRETATION AND SEPARABILITY
SECTION:
5-4H-1: Enactment
5-4H-2: Repealer And Savings Clause
5-4H-3: Interpretation And Separability
5-4H-1: ENACTMENT:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
according to law except for all access requests submitted prior to the adoption
hereof and which have received written preliminary approval. All requests
submitted prior to adoption hereof which have not been given written
preliminary approval and all requests submitted after the adoption hereof shall
be governed by the provisions of this chapter as finally enacted. (Ord. 2013-
014, 10-8-2013)
5-4H-2: REPEALER AND SAVINGS CLAUSE:
The previous policies establishing rules and regulations governing access to
county highways are hereby repealed, provided such repeal shall not affect the
right of the county to institute any action at law or in equity to require
compliance or prosecute violations thereunder, it being the county's intention
to preserve all such causes of action and not to excuse any violation under the
prior rules and regulations. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-8-2013)
5-4H-3: INTERPRETATION AND SEPARABILITY:
   A.   Interpretation: The county engineer shall render any interpretations of
this chapter, which are necessary to promote efficient administration and
review of access requests. This chapter shall be interpreted strictly and in
accordance with the standards set forth herein. Whenever any provision of this
chapter overlaps, contradicts, or covers the same subject matter as any other
provision of this chapter or any other county ordinance, regulation, or rule,
the more restrictive or higher standard shall control.
   B.   Separability: Each article, section, subsection, paragraph,
subparagraph, sentence, clause, phrase, word, provision, regulation, or
restriction established by this chapter or any amendments thereto is hereby
declared to be separable and independent, in accordance with the following:
      1.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision
of this chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any provision of
this chapter not specifically included in the judgment.
      2.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular property, access,
highway improvement, or access facility, such judgment shall not affect the
application of the provisions to any property, access, highway improvement, or
access facility not specifically included in the judgment. (Ord. 2013-014, 10-
8-2013)
TITLE 6
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Short Title
6-1-2: Codes Adopted By Reference
6-1-3: Maintenance Requirements
6-1-4: Agricultural Exemptions
6-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title, including the rules and regulations it adopts by reference is
entitled the GRUNDY COUNTY BUILDING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2019-011, 5-14-2019; amd.
Ord. 2023-004, 5-9-2023)
6-1-2: CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The following codes are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
ordinance as if set out at length herein.
   A   Building Code: 2021 International Codes with Amendments. The following
additions, insertions, deletions, and changes are hereby made:
   Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Building Code
of Grundy County. Hereinafter, referred to as "the code".
   Section 101.4.3 Plumbing: The provisions of the most current edition of the
Illinois State Plumbing Code shall apply to the installation, alterations,
repairs and replacement of plumbing systems, including equipment, appliances,
fixtures, fittings and appurtenances and where connected to a water or sewage
system and all aspects of a mechanical gas system.
   Section 101.4.5 Fire Prevention. The provisions of the code enforced by the
Fire Department having jurisdiction shall apply to matters affecting or
relating to structures, processes and premises from the hazard of fire and
explosion arising from the storage, handling or use of structures, materials or
devices; from conditions hazardous to life, property or public welfare in the
occupancy of structures or premises; and from the construction, extension,
repair, alteration or removal of fire suppression, automatic sprinkler systems
and alarm systems or fire hazards in the structure or on the premises from
occupancy or operation.
   Section 104.G Energy: The current provisions of the International Energy
Code, with modifications from the State of Illinois, shall apply to all matters
governing the design and construction of buildings for energy efficiency.
   Section 1102.1 Design: Buildings and facilities shall be designed and
constructed to be accessible in accordance with this code and ICC Al 17.1 and
the current editions of both the Federal ADA and Illinois Accessibility codes.
   Section 1612.3 Establishment of flood hazard areas: To establish flood
hazard areas, the applicable governing authority shall adopt a flood hazard map
and supporting data. The flood hazard map shall include, at a minimum, areas of
special flood hazard as identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
in an engineering report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study for Grundy County
dated August 2, 2012, as amendment or revised with the accompanying Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM) and
related supporting data long with any revisions thereto. The adopted flood
hazard map and supporting data are hereby adopted by reference and declared to
be part of this section.
   Section 3115 Intermodal Shipping Containers: Delete in its entirety.
   B.   Residential Code: 2021 International Residential Code with amendments.
The following additions, insertions, deletions, and changes are hereby made:
   Section R101.1 Title: These provisions shall be known as the Residential
Code for One- and Two-family Dwellings of Grundy County and shall be cited as
such and will be referred to herein as "this code".
   Section R102.7 Existing Structures: The legal occupancy of any structure
existing on the date of the adoption of this code shall be permitted to
continue without change, except as is specifically covered in this code, the
International Property Maintenance Code, or the code enforced by the Fire
Department having jurisdiction, or as is deemed necessary by the building
official for the general safety and welfare of the occupants and the public.
   R112.00 Board of Appeals - Remove this section in its entirety as the Land
Use Committee fulfills this function as part of the Grundy County Code.
   Table R301.2 (1) Climate and Geographic Design Criteria
   Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria
 
Ground Snow Wind Design          Seismic Design Subject To Damage From
Load                             Category
            Speed (mph)      107                Weathering       Severe
25 psf      Topographic      No  B              Frost Line Depth 42 inches
            Effects Windbome No                 Termite          Moderate to
            Debris Zone                                          Heavy
 
 
Winter Design Ice Barrier
Temp          Underlayment Flood Hazards Air Freezing Index Mean Annual Temp
              Required
0 Deg F       Yes          8/2/2012      2000               50.1
 
   Manual J Design Criteria
 
                   Winter                 Altitude   Indoor Design Design Temp
Elevation Latitude Heating Summer Cooling Correction Temp          Cooling
                                          Factor
498 feet  41.35    5       90             N/a        65 deg F      75 deg F
 
 
Heating    Cooling  Wind     Wind
Temp       Temp     Velocity Velocity Coincide nt Daily Range Winter   Summer
Difference Differen Heating  Cooling  Wet Bulb                Humidity Humidity
           ce
60         15       15       7.5      75          20(M )      30%      50%
 
   Section R313.0 Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems -Delete entire section which
requires sprinkler systems to be installed in one and two family dwelling units
and townhomes.
   Chapters 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, and 32 shall be deleted as Plumbing
requirements as Grundy County enforces the most current IL State Plumbing Code
with amendments. Chapter 30 Sanitary Drainage shall be deleted as the Grundy
County Environmental Health Department enforces requirements for septic
installations. (Ord. 2016-017, 12-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-011, 5-14-2019; Ord.
2023-004, 5-9-2023)
6-1-3: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
All buildings and structures, and parts and appurtenances thereof, both
existing and hereafter erected, moved, changed or installed, shall be so
maintained that the occupants and users thereof and others are reasonably safe
from the hazards of fire, explosion, collapse, contagion and spread of
infectious disease. If found not so maintained, the necessary corrective work,
repair, replacement or removal may be ordered under the provisions of the
Property Maintenance Code. (Ord. 2011-009, 5-10-2011)
6-1-4: AGRICULTURAL EXEMPTIONS:
Exempt from the provisions of this title, as provided by State Statute, are
farm residences and other buildings and structures used for agricultural
purposes on farms. To be considered exempt, such residence, building or
structure shall be located on a farm that is such in fact and not in name only;
and the use shall be limited to those uses defined as agricultural in 55
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-12001. (Ord. 2011-009, 5-10-2011)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
6-2-1: Scope
6-2-2: Building Officer
6-2-3: Permit Requirements
6-2-4: Certificate Of Completion; Temporary Occupancy Permit
6-2-5: Collection And Disposition Of Fees
6-2-6: Nonconforming Buildings And Structures
6-2-7: Hazardous Conditions
6-2-8: Amendments
6-2-9: Nonliability Of Enforcement Officers
6-2-10: Violations; Penalty
6-2-1: SCOPE:
The requirements of this chapter apply to the administration and enforcement of
this title, other pertinent ordinances, and laws applicable to any regulated
building, structure, part or appurtenance thereof. (Ord. 2011-009, 5-10-2011)
6-2-2: BUILDING OFFICER:
   A.   Office Created: The office of building officer is hereby created in
which is vested the power and duty to administer and enforce all the provisions
of this title and such related regulations as are assigned to that office by
the county board. That officer is meant wherever in this title the term
"building officer" is used.
   B.   Appointment; Qualifications; Assistants: The county board shall appoint
as building officer, a person who is qualified by professional or practical
training and experience to conduct the affairs and carry out the duties of that
office. The board shall also provide for the appointment of such assistants as
are needed and qualified to carry out efficiently the duties and powers
assigned to them by the Grundy County board or building officer.
   C.   Duties: The duties and authority of the building officer shall include:
      1.   The administration of this title and other applicable ordinances and
state laws herein referred to.
      2.   Keep careful systematic records of the business and work of the
office, including permit applications, survey plats, building plot plans,
construction plans and specifications, copies of permits and certificates
issued, affidavits and certificates received, a record of inspections, copies
of notices and orders issued, and reports of tests made. Plans and
specifications of houses and accessories, except survey plats and building plot
plans, may be destroyed under the regulations of the state of Illinois.
      3.   Make inspections, and for that purpose may enter buildings,
structures and premises.
      4.   Stop, by written order, work being done contrary to the building
permit or this title.
      5.   Revoke, by writing, a permit or approval issued contrary to this
title or based on a false statement or misrepresentation in the application.
(Ord. 2011-009, 5-10-2011)
6-2-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit And Compliance Required: It is hereby required that a permit be
obtained in advance and all other requirements of this title be complied with
whenever a building or structure, or parts or appurtenances thereof, such as
plumbing installation and electrical installation, located outside the limits
of municipalities of this county and regulated by this title is erected,
installed, altered, converted, remodeled, structurally repaired, moved or
changed.
   B.   Application For Permit: A building permit application, signed by the
owner or authorized agent, shall be in writing on forms provided by the
building officer and may be amended during the course of work. Alterations and
additions after completion require another permit. The following information
shall accompany and be a part of the application:
      1.   Descriptive material, in drawn and written form, as to the location
and design of the buildings, structures, electrical and plumbing installations,
as required by the building officer to assure compliance with the rules and
regulations. Said material includes, but is not limited to, the forms contained
in the packet entitled "Grundy County Specifications And Information Packet"
which shall be provided by the building department.
      2.   A drawing showing the location of lot lines and existing and
proposed buildings, structures and underground facilities.
      3.   A copy of the Grundy County health department permit for a well and
septic system.
      4.   For construction, alterations and other work, one set of
construction plans, specifications or tests to show compliance with these
regulations. The scale of plans shall not be less than one-sixteenth of an inch
to the foot (1/16" = 1'). Plans may be waived for minor alterations not
involving any structural changes and for residential accessory buildings not
over seven hundred (700) square feet in area, if sufficiently described in the
application.
   C.   Permit Fees: Payment of the fees, as required by the schedule of fees
adopted by resolution by the Grundy County board, shall be made with the
application.
   D.   Examination Of Application And Plans: Examination of the application
and plans shall be made within ten (10) days by or under the direction of the
building officer.
   E.   Action On Permit:
      1.   Denial Of Permit: Permit shall be denied if plans or proposed work
do not conform to the requirements of this title or to other pertinent laws and
ordinances. Denial with reasons shall be given in writing upon request.
      2.   Issuance Of Permit: If proposed work conforms to the requirements of
this title and other pertinent laws and ordinances, a permit shall be issued in
writing to proceed with work.
   F.   Permit Card: Permit card is to be furnished as proof of approval and is
to remain conspicuously posted on the premises during the course of the work.
   G.   Lapse Of Permit: A permit lapses if the foundation and subfloor are not
completed within six (6) months, if the building or structures are not
completed within a period of one year unless extended in writing by the
building officer. (Ord. 2011-009, 5-10-2011)
   H.   Construction Storage Containers: Cargo containers or temporary
structures may be used as construction storage containers during the
construction of a structure for all zoning districts for the storage of
building supplies and equipment with the following conditions:
      1.   No stacking of construction storage containers is permitted.
      2.   All contents of the construction storage containers shall be
inspected by the building and zoning officer or their designee.
      3.   Construction storage containers shall be stored in the rear yard of
the site and be set back from property lines one hundred feet (100').
      4.   The construction storage containers shall be removed from the
premises once an occupancy permit is issued or the building permit expires,
whichever occurs first.
      5.   The materials that are stored within the construction storage
containers shall not include materials that are deemed hazardous as allowed by
the Illinois environmental protection agency.
      6.   Construction storage containers shall be stored in such a manner
that access to adjacent structures, building or the container's interior are
not blocked.
      7.   Construction storage containers shall not be stored closer than one
thousand feet (1,000') to any existing inventoried wetland or identified
floodplain/floodway. (Ord. 09-014, 9-8-2009)
6-2-4: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION; TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY PERMIT:
A certificate of occupancy, which must be secured before a building is
occupied, is to be issued by the building officer when inspections following
the work demonstrate compliance with this title and permit and any other
pertinent laws and ordinances. A temporary occupancy permit may be issued for a
building if it is found that the condition of the building and the lighting,
heating, water supply, sewage disposal and sanitary facilities available to the
occupant provide a reasonable degree of safety. Evidence of assurance in a cash
bond to ensure reasonably prompt completion shall be furnished. Permit may be
revoked if work to complete is not diligently pursued. (Ord. 2011-009, 5-10-
2011)
6-2-5: COLLECTION AND DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All fees, as established by resolution of the Grundy County board, shall be
collected by the building officer and deposited no less than biweekly with the
county treasurer. (Ord. 2011-009, 5-10-2011)
6-2-6: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Definition: A "nonconforming building or structure" is defined as an
existing building or structure, or part or appurtenance thereof, not in
conformance with this title.
   B.   Repairs: Repair work requires a written application and permit. Work is
limited to necessary repairs only unless building or part is made to conform in
whole or part with the requirements of this title.
   C.   Alterations Or Enlargements: Altering or enlarging shall be done in a
manner conforming to this title. (Ord. 2011-009, 5-10-2011)
6-2-7: HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS:
A building or structure, or part or appurtenance thereof, or a construction
condition found to be hazardous to life, limb or health, upon order of the
building officer or enacting authority, shall be corrected, repaired, replaced,
vacated or demolished, or removed and the premises or work restored to or put
in a safe condition within a reasonable period of time, as may be appropriate
in each case, when such a finding has been made in writing, written notice of
the findings and order has been given to the owner or his or her agent or
contractor, and, except in emergencies, a hearing on the order has been held
before the building officer. (Ord. 2011-009, 5-10-2011)
6-2-8: AMENDMENTS:
This title may be amended from time to time at any regular meeting of the
Grundy County board or at any special meeting of said governmental body called
for the purpose of considering an amendment to this title. (Ord. 2011-009, 5-
10-2011)
6-2-9: NONLIABILITY OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS:
The county building officer, or any of his subordinates, charged with the
enforcement of this title, while acting for the county, shall not hereby render
himself liable personally, and he is hereby relieved from all personal
liability for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of
any act required or permitted in the discharge of their officer duties. Any
suit instituted against any officer or employee because of an act performed by
them in the discharge of his duties and under the provisions of this title
shall be defended by the legal representative of the county until the final
termination of the proceedings. In no case shall the building officer or any of
his subordinates be liable for costs in any action, suit or proceeding that may
be instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this title; and any officer of
the building department, acting in good faith and without malice, shall be free
from liability for acts performed under any of this title's provisions or by
reason of any act or omission in the performance of his officer duties in
connection therewith. (Ord. 2011-009, 5-10-2011)
6-2-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Report Of Violations: A person, firm, or corporation licensed or
registered by the state, or a subdivision thereof, to do work regulated by this
title or to render professional architectural or engineering service in
connection therewith, who violates the law or ordinances under which licensed
or registered, or who violates this title while carrying out such work, or
rendering service in connection therewith, shall be reported by the building
officer to the licensing authority.
   B.   Penalty: Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys,
omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of
any of the provisions of this title, including provisions adopted by reference,
or who refuses to remedy a violation of any such provisions or to remedy a
hazard of fire, explosion, collapse, contagion or spread of infectious disease
found to exist and duly ordered eliminated shall be fined not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense, and each day upon which such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2011-009, 5-10-
2011)
TITLE 7
RESERVED
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
TITLE 8
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 1
JURISDICTION AND ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Title; General Purposes; Authority; And Jurisdiction
8-1-1-1: Title
8-1-1-2: Purposes
8-1-1-3: Authority
8-1-1-4: Jurisdiction
8-1-2: Applicability; Vested Rights; Effect On Private Restrictions
8-1-2-1: Applicability
8-1-2-2: Exceptions And Exemptions
8-1-3: Establishment Of Zoning Districts
8-1-3-1: Zoning Districts
8-1-3-2: Official Zoning Map
8-1-3-3: Interpreting The Official Zoning Map
8-1-3-4: Development Spanning Two Or More Districts
8-1-3-5: Disconnected Territory
8-1-4: District Purposes
8-1-4-1: Agricultural (A) District
8-1-4-2: Agricultural Residential (AR) District
8-1-4-3: Planned Residential (PR) District
8-1-4-4: Residential (R) District
8-1-4-5: Commercial General (CG) District
8-1-4-6: Commercial Interchange (CI) District
8-1-4-7: Industrial (I) District
8-1-1: TITLE; GENERAL PURPOSES; AUTHORITY; AND JURISDICTION:
8-1-1-1: TITLE:
This is the Grundy County, Illinois, unified development ordinance. It may be
referred to as the "UDO" or as "this ordinance". (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-1-1-2: PURPOSES:
   A.   General Purposes: The general purposes of this UDO are to promote the
public health, safety, convenience, and general welfare by:
      1.   Conforming with the comprehensive plan for Grundy County.
      2.   Preserving, enhancing, and protecting the rural character of Grundy
County by:
         a.   Promoting compact urban form;
         b.   Promoting the continuation of agriculture as the predominant land
use in the unincorporated area of the county;
         c.   Ensuring that whatever residential development occurs in the
agricultural areas does not disrupt agriculture and preserves agricultural
land; and
         d.   Coordinating with the general plans and land use regulations of
the incorporated villages and cities within the county.
      3.   Protecting the quality of life of county residents by:
         a.   Preventing the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
population;
         b.   Securing adequate light, air, convenience of access, and safety
from fire, flood, and other danger;
         c.   Minimizing conflicts among adjacent land uses; and
         d.   Preserving and protecting places and areas of historical,
cultural, scenic, or architectural importance and significance.
      4.   Ensuring that highway systems are carefully planned to:
         a.   Lessen or avoid congestion in public ways;
         b.   Enhance opportunities for multimodal and nonvehicular travel; and
         c.   Reduce vehicle miles traveled.
      5.   Ensuring that the community grows with adequate public way, utility,
health, educational, and recreational facilities by:
         a.   Promoting the orderly growth, development, improvement, and
redevelopment of the community; and
         b.   Protecting natural resources and the environment including water
supplies, sensitive ecosystems, and scenic vistas.
      6.   Ensuring that the needs of business and industry are recognized by:
         a.   Providing for sufficient commercial and industrial property to
allow for economic development within the county;
         b.   Providing for a fair, orderly, and efficient development review
process; and
         c.   Protecting the value of property and buildings.
      7.   Ensuring that residential areas provide healthful surroundings for
family life.
      8.   Protecting the fiscal and functional integrity of the county by:
         a.   Ensuring that the growth of the county is commensurate with and
in support of the efficient and economical use of public funds; and
         b.   Encouraging development in areas where transportation, water,
sewers, schools, parks, and other public requirements exist, and limit
development where such facilities do not exist.
   B.   Specific Purposes: Specific purposes of this UDO are set out for
individual chapters and for some sections. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-1-1-3: AUTHORITY:
The authority for this UDO is established by all relevant grants of authority
in the Illinois Compiled Statutes and county ordinances. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-1-1-4: JURISDICTION:
All development within the boundaries of unincorporated Grundy County, as may
be modified from time to time by municipal annexation, and all land use
applications made to the county for property within the county shall comply
with the provisions of this UDO. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-1-2: APPLICABILITY; VESTED RIGHTS; EFFECT ON PRIVATE RESTRICTIONS:
8-1-2-1: APPLICABILITY:
No land shall be developed except in accordance with the applicable provisions
of this UDO. All the following are considered "development" that is subject to
the applicable requirements of this UDO:
   A.   Use: The use of any building, structure, land, or water. This includes
new uses, expansions, and material changes to the operational characteristics
of existing uses.
   B.   Land Clearing: Land clearing in anticipation of development for
nonagricultural purposes shall be authorized by the issuance of a tree removal
permit and shall only be in accordance with approved plans (see section
8-9-11, "Preservation Of Trees And Other Vegetation", of this title). Where
site improvement permits are not required, land shall not be cleared for
installation of infrastructure until all required development approvals (e.g.,
subdivision plat or development plat) are granted.
   C.   Other Disturbance Or Alteration: Any other disturbance of land, soil,
vegetation, or waterways, including alteration of land for development or other
purposes, shall conform to the applicable standards contained in this UDO.
   D.   Division Or Subdivision: Any division of land for land development, for
sale, or for lease, whether by subdivision or any other technique shall comply
with all applicable requirements of this UDO. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-1-2-2: EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Exceptions:
      1.   Existing planned unit developments (PUDs) approved and partially
developed shall be controlled by the provisions of the PUD ordinance under
which they were approved. If they are to be modified, the procedures for a plat
approval and zoning change in this title shall be used.
      2.   Any development granted final approval prior to the adoption hereof
shall be controlled by the development standards in place at the time of
approval. However, if construction permits have not been obtained within twelve
(12) months of that approval, the provisions of this UDO shall be met.
   B.   Exemptions: The following are exempt from the provisions of this UDO:
      1.   Existing Uses: Uses legally established at the time of adoption
hereof shall be allowed to continue; however, all nonconforming uses shall be
subject to chapter 12, "Nonconforming Structures, Uses, And Land", of this
title.
      2.   Agricultural Land: The regulations of this UDO are not imposed on
land used for agricultural purposes or for the erection, maintenance, repair,
alteration, remodeling, or extension of buildings used for such agricultural
purposes on such land; except that such buildings for agricultural purposes
shall be required to conform to building setback lines.
      3.   Public Utilities: The regulations of this UDO do not specify or
regulate the following:
         a.   The type or location of poles, towers, wires, cables, conduits,
vaults, laterals, pipes, mains, valves, or similar distributing equipment;
regulator and compressor stations, and the underground storage of gas for a
public utility or natural gas company including facilities and exploratory and
operating wells.
         b.   Utility scale wind energy conversion systems ("wind farms") or
small wind energy conversion systems are not exempted from these UDO
requirements. The standards for wind energy conversion systems are listed in
sections
8-2-5-34, "Utility Scale Wind Energy Conversion Systems (U-SWECS)" and
8-2-3-14, "Small Scale Wind Energy Conversion Systems", of this title. (Ord.
10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-1-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
8-1-3-1: ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   General: The following zoning districts are established:
      1.   Agricultural:
         A - Agricultural.
         AR - Agricultural residential.
      2.   Residential:
         PR - Planned residential.
         R - Residential.
      3.   Nonresidential:
         CG - Commercial general.
         CI - Commercial interchange.
         I - Industrial.
   B.   Comparison To Former Zoning Districts:
Table 8-1-3-1, "General Zoning District Comparison", of this section, shows the
approximate relationship between the districts established by this section and
the districts from the former zoning ordinance, which they replace. The table
is provided for rough comparative purposes only.
            TABLE 8-1-3-1
            GENERAL ZONING DISTRICT COMPARISON
Zoning Ordinance Unified Development Ordinance (This UDO)
(Former Code)
Zoning Ordinance                                       Unified Development
(Former Code)                                          Ordinance (This UDO)
A - Agricultural                                       A - Agricultural
A-R - Agricultural residential                         AR - Agricultural
                                                       residential
(No district)                                          PR - Planned residential
Existing developments in:
   R-1 - Single-family detached residential
   R-2 - Single-family detached residential         R - Residential
   R-3 - Single-family attached and multiple-family
residential
   R-R - Recreational residential
B-1 - Business                                         CG - Commercial general
B-2 - Commercial
B-3 - Motorist Service                                 CI - Commercial
                                                       Interchange
M-1 - Manufacturing (light)
M-2 - Manufacturing (heavy)                            I - Industrial
M-3 - Mineral Extraction
 
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-1-3-2: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   General: The "zoning map" shows the boundaries of the zoning districts
that are established by section
8-1-3-1, "Zoning Districts", of this chapter. The zoning map has been adopted
by Grundy County and all of its notations are an official part of this title.
   B.   Availability: The zoning map is held in the Office of the Grundy County
Land Use Department.
   C.   Official Zoning Map: The official zoning map is on file in the County
Administrative Building; it is maintained to reflect all zoning district
boundary amendments. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-1-3-3: INTERPRETING THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
The following rules shall be used to determine the precise location of any
zoning district boundary line shown on the zoning map:
   A.   Property Lines: Boundary lines shown as following, or approximately
following, lot lines or other property lines shall be construed as following
such lines.
   B.   Rights-Of-Way: Boundary lines shown as following, or approximately
following, streets, alleys, railroad tracks, or utility lines shall be
construed as following the centerline of the right-of-way. Where streets or
alleys on the ground differ from streets or alleys shown on the zoning map, the
streets or alleys on the ground control.
   C.   Watercourses: Boundaries shown as following, or approximately
following, the centerline of streams or other watercourses shall be construed
as following the channel centerline. In the event of a natural change in the
location of such streams or other watercourses, the zoning district boundary
shall be construed as moving with the channel centerline.
   D.   Parallel To Features: Boundaries shown as separated from and parallel,
or approximately parallel, to any of the features listed in subsections A
through C of this section, shall be construed to be parallel to such features
and at such distances as are shown on the zoning map.
   E.   Single Ownership Land Or Land With No Identifiable Feature: On single
ownership (nonsubdivided) land or when a district boundary follows no
identifiable feature, the location of district boundaries shall be determined
by applying the following rules in order until the boundaries are known:
      1.   First, by referring to dimensions shown on the official zoning map
(if any).
      2.   Second, by using the map scale appearing on the official zoning map.
   F.   Determination By County Board: Questions concerning the exact locations
of zoning district boundary lines shall be resolved by the County Board after
receiving recommendations from the Zoning Board of Appeals, and Land Use
Committee. (Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
8-1-3-4: DEVELOPMENT SPANNING TWO OR MORE DISTRICTS:
Where a parcel proposed for development is located in more than one zoning
district, the development shall be treated as if it were two (2) or more
separate parcels under the same ownership with the district boundary(ies)
acting as the parcel boundary. Development within each sector of the parcel
shall conform to the provisions of its respective district. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-1-3-5: DISCONNECTED TERRITORY:
Any additions to the unincorporated area of the County resulting from
disconnection from municipalities or otherwise, shall be classified in the
Agricultural (A) District. Affected areas may be subsequently rezoned by
amendment in accordance with the requirements of section
8-14-9, "Map Amendments", of this title. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-1-4: DISTRICT PURPOSES:
The district purposes are set forth with regard to the general use or purpose
of the district, the community character the district creates, the types of
uses permitted, and the infrastructure requirements of the uses. (Ord. 10-001,
1-12-2010)
8-1-4-1: AGRICULTURAL (A) DISTRICT:
This district is intended to permit agriculture to be the primary use of land
and restrict residential uses or activities that interfere with agriculture.
   A.   Character: This district is entirely rural in character. The minimum
lot size requirements and open space ratios for uses and other controls are set
so that, at full development, the area will remain rural in appearance and open
space can be used for agricultural purposes.
   B.   Uses: Agriculture is the primary use of the land. Other uses that are
accessory to the agricultural use are permitted on farmsteads to enhance the
total value of the agricultural operation to its owner. Residential uses are
limited in this district and require the permanent set aside of adjacent lands
that preserve natural areas or agriculture.
   C.   Water And Sewer: Water supply and sanitary sewage disposal is normally
provided by wells and septic systems on an individual lot basis. (Ord. 10-001,
1-12-2010)
8-1-4-2: AGRICULTURAL RESIDENTIAL (AR) DISTRICT:
This district is intended to provide a higher density of residential
development than is otherwise permitted in the agricultural (A) district.
Residential development is permitted for those tracts of land within or
adjacent to agricultural areas where it is determined that:
   A.   Such land, by virtue of its physical characteristics, is not well
suited for agricultural purposes;
   B.   The development of the land for residential use will not substantially
impair the use of adjacent properties for agricultural use; and
   C.   The development of rural land for residential use will not
substantially impact the existing road system, increase the requirements for
public services, or change the rural character of the area. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-1-4-3: PLANNED RESIDENTIAL (PR) DISTRICT:
This district is the primary residential district to meet very specific needs
that are compatible with the rural nature of the county. The district is
intended to provide for well planned residential communities in naturally
attractive areas, while avoiding suburbanization or competition with
incorporated cities and villages.
   A.   Development Forms: This district is intended to accommodate new master
planned residential communities in rural unincorporated areas. It is intended
for future development as, upon adoption, no areas are zoned this category.
Where land is outside the urban service boundary of a city or village, and the
county desires to protect the rural area from further annexation, it may zone
the area as planned residential with a planned development approval for a
conservation development.
   B.   Uses: This district is intended to allow specialized residential
development in a limited and controlled fashion.
   C.   Infrastructure: Single-family sites may be served by on site wells and
septic systems or by public utilities depending on the lot size and
configurations of development.
   D.   Master Plan Required: In accordance with 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/5-12009.5(a), developments in this district shall be designated as special
uses, and approval will require submittal and issuance of a special use permit
and master plan acceptance at the time of rezoning. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-1-4-4: RESIDENTIAL (R) DISTRICT:
   A.   General: This district is intended to preserve the character of the
designated existing residential neighborhoods that were developed under prior
zoning categories that are no longer used in this UDO or of platted areas that
may now be nonconforming. This district ensures that owners of property in
designated established neighborhoods are not required to seek variances to
improve existing homes that were either built before zoning regulations were
adopted or conformed to the regulations that were in effect with the previous
ordinance. Any nonconformities or zoning violations that existed at the time of
adoption of this UDO shall remain in effect. Variances will be required when
improvements to existing homes would otherwise violate or not conform to the
regulations that were in effect with previous ordinances.
   B.   Character: This district has a predominantly single-family residential
character.
   C.   Uses: The district is intended to preserve existing residential
character and discourage conversion of residential uses to other uses.
   D.   Infrastructure: Water and sewer service are provided by on site wells
and septic systems or by public utilities depending on the lot size and
configurations of development. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-1-4-5: COMMERCIAL GENERAL (CG) DISTRICT:
   A.   General: This district is the primary commercial district. It
accommodates retail and commercial service uses primarily located along the
major highways or, in some cases, isolated rural areas.
   B.   Character: This district has an auto-urban character, generally
characterized by a large amount of parking or vehicle storage (that often
exceeds the building coverage). Landscape buffers and landscaping within
parking areas are required to soften the impact of large areas of pavement.
Building form and grouping regulations apply that encourage and require
creativity in building design and layout and share access to the highway. These
regulations are intended to soften visual impact of commercial development on
the rural character of the county and reduce potential conflicts with highway
traffic.
   C.   Uses: This district is intended to provide for a full range of
community scale commercial enterprises, including, but not limited to, retail,
office, restaurant, entertainment, and service.
   D.   Infrastructure: Water and sewer service is provided by on site
facilities. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-1-4-6: COMMERCIAL INTERCHANGE (CI) DISTRICT:
This district is for the existing I-80 and I-55 interchanges in unincorporated
Grundy County and the unincorporated areas associated with any future new
interchange. It is intended to accommodate commercial development that serves
the needs of motorists wishing to exit the interstate for vehicle refueling and
servicing, food, and short term boarding.
   A.   Character: This district has an auto-urban character, generally
characterized by a large amount of parking or vehicle storage. Buildings are
the dominant visual element. Landscaping is intended to enhance the appearance
of the buildings and to soften the impact of large paved areas, not hide
development or try to project a noncommercial character.
   B.   Uses: This district is intended to accommodate highway oriented retail
and service uses such as motor fuel stations, truck stops, restaurants, and
hotels. Regional uses such as an automobile mall or community college may be
allowed if their locations are consistent with county and municipal
comprehensive plans.
   C.   Infrastructure: Water and sewer service is provided by on site or
shared facilities. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-1-4-7: INDUSTRIAL (I) DISTRICT:
   A.   General: This district accommodates both light and heavy industrial
uses in the rural areas that may be unsightly or have higher potential for
nuisance to any adjoining residential areas. It is intended to protect land
that has access to water or rail transportation that are critical to many of
these uses.
   B.   Character: There is no specific character to this district in Grundy
County, as many sites in the unincorporated area are expansive. Buildings and
structures, exterior storage, and uses that are basically machines (concrete
mixing, for example) are often unsightly. In many cases, uses within this
district must be buffered from views by existing residential areas outside of
the district by extensive landscape buffers. Open spaces are required for on
site or shared stormwater detention and treatment areas.
   C.   Uses: This district is intended to provide for light and heavy
industrial uses that are unsightly or have nuisance potential. Very large
buildings, both in height and area, are also restricted to this district. These
uses are generally poor neighbors to residential areas.
   D.   Infrastructure: Water and sewer service is provided on site. (Ord. 10-
001, 1-12-2010)
CHAPTER 2
PERMITTED USES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purpose
8-2-2: Uses By District
8-2-2-1: Land Use Tables
8-2-2-2: Unlisted Uses
8-2-3: General Use Standards
8-2-3-1: Accessory Agricultural Uses
8-2-3-2: Accessory Structures
8-2-3-3: Fences
8-2-3-4: Home Childcare
8-2-3-5: Home Occupation
8-2-3-6: Loading, Truck Access, And Waste Storage
8-2-3-7: Light Automobile Service
8-2-3-8: Outdoor Display Of Merchandise
8-2-3-9: Outdoor Storage Of Commercial Goods
8-2-3-10: Outdoor Storage Of Refuse
8-2-3-11: Residential Development
8-2-3-12: Residential Storage Of Trailers And Boats
8-2-3-13: Residential Storage (Indoor) And Utility Sheds
8-2-3-14: Small Scale Wind Energy Conversion Systems
8-2-3-15: Vehicle Sales
8-2-3-16: Vision Clearance For Corner Lots
8-2-4: Administrative Review Use Standards
8-2-4-1: Boarding/Riding Stables
8-2-4-2: Airports
8-2-4-3: Bed And Breakfast
8-2-4-4: Borrow Pits
8-2-4-5: Cargo Container Storage Unit
8-2-4-6: Group Homes
8-2-4-7: Chicken Keeping
8-2-4-8: Public Service Facility
8-2-4-9: Restaurant
8-2-4-10: Single-Family Detached Dwellings
8-2-4-11: Solar Collector Systems
8-2-4-12: Utilities, Community
8-2-4-13: Utilities, Neighborhood
8-2-4-14: Beekeeping
8-2-4-14-1: Density Of Hives
8-2-4-14-2: Location And Setbacks
8-2-4-14-3: Fencing Of Colonies
8-2-4-14-4: Signage
8-2-4-14-5: Water And Food Supply
8-2-4-14-6: Queens
8-2-4-14-7: Flyway Barriers
8-2-4-14-8: Maintenance Of The Apiary And Hives
8-2-4-14-9: Administrative Zoning Permit Compliance
8-2-5: Special Use Standards
8-2-5-1: Adult Uses
8-2-5-2: Agricultural Support And Other Rural Services
8-2-5-3: Campgrounds And Recreational Vehicle Parks
8-2-5-4: Car Wash
8-2-5-5: College/University
8-2-5-6: Commercial Retail
8-2-5-7: Correctional Facility
8-2-5-8: Daycare Facility
8-2-5-9: Drive-In/Drive-Through Facility
8-2-5-10: Extraction
8-2-5-11: Garden Center
8-2-5-12: Heavy Retail And Service
8-2-5-13: Institutional Residential
8-2-5-14: Kennels
8-2-5-15: Landscape Waste Composting And Organic Composting Facility
8-2-5-16: Live-Work Units
8-2-5-17: Manufactured Home Park Or Subdivision
8-2-5-18: Ministorage Units
8-2-5-19: Mixed Use
8-2-5-20: Outdoor Cargo Container Storage And Handling Facilities
8-2-5-21: Parking (Stand Alone Lot) And Transit Facilities
8-2-5-22: Places Of Public Assembly
8-2-5-23: Private Airstrip
8-2-5-24: Private Club
8-2-5-25: Private Pipelines
8-2-5-26: Recreation, Indoor
8-2-5-27: Recreation, Outdoor
8-2-5-28: Salvage Activities
8-2-5-29: Single-Family Cluster
8-2-5-30: Commercial Solar And Wind Energy Facilities
8-2-5-31: Vehicle Sales, Rental, And Service
8-2-5-32: Veterinary Practice
8-2-5-33: Utilities, Community
8-2-5-34: Utility Scale Wind Energy Conversion Systems (U-SWECS)
8-2-5-35: Medical Cannabis
8-2-5-36: Commercial Outdoor Shooting Ranges
8-2-6: Temporary Uses
8-2-6-1: Standards For All Temporary Uses
8-2-6-2: Contractor's Office
8-2-6-3: Farm Stand Or Farmers' Market
8-2-6-4: Model Homes
8-2-6-5: Special Events
8-2-6-6: Sales Office
8-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to designate the zoning districts in which
specific uses are permitted. Some permitted uses require administrative review
and approval based on additional standards, which may determine where in a
district a use is permitted or what specific additional standards apply to that
use. It also indicates whether a use requires a special use permit be approved
or whether the use is prohibited. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-2: USES BY DISTRICT:
8-2-2-1: LAND USE TABLES:
The following three (3) tables provide the information on uses permitted in
each district:
   A.   Symbols Used In The Use Tables: The following symbols are used in
tables
8-2-2-1A, "Agricultural, Residential, And Institutional Uses";
8-2-2-1B, "Nonresidential Uses"; and
8-2-2-1C, "Temporary Uses", of this section, to indicate whether a particular
use is permitted, permitted by administrative review (subject to administrative
review use standards), permissible by special use review (subject to special
use standards), or prohibited within each zoning district:
      1.   "P" indicates a permitted use, where the use is permitted as a
matter of right, subject to the general standards of section
8-2-3, "General Use Standards", of this chapter, and all other applicable
provisions of this title.
      2.   "A" indicates an administrative review use, which is subject to
additional review by the Land Use Director for compliance with the standards of
section
8-2-3, "General Use Standards", of this chapter, and the applicable performance
standards of section
8-2-4, "Administrative Review Use Standards", of this chapter. Not all
properties or project designs may meet these requirements; thus, the use may
not be allowed to be established on every parcel within the district.
      3.   "S" indicates a special use, which is allowed only upon granting a
special use permit as provided in section
8-14-6, "Special Use Permits", of this title. The Zoning Board of Appeals, Land
Use Committee, and County Board review special use permit applications for
compliance with the standards of section
8-2-3, "General Use Standards", of this chapter, and the applicable performance
standards of section
8-2-5, "Special Use Standards", of this chapter. Not all properties or project
designs may meet these requirements; thus, the use may not be allowed to be
established on every parcel within the district.
      4.   "N" indicates a prohibited use that is not permitted in that
district. (Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
TABLE 8-2-2-1A
AGRICULTURAL, RESIDENTIAL, AND INSTITUTIONAL USES
 
P = Permitted use                            S = Special use
A = Permitted use with administrative review N = Prohibited use
 
         Zoning District                         Admin. Review Or Special Use
Land Use A AR PR R CG CI I General Use Standard1 Standard
                                                Zoning District                   Admin.
                                                                                  Review
                                                                        General   Or
Land Use                                        A    AR   PR R  CG CI I Use       Special
                                                                        Standard1 Use
                                                                                  Standard

Agricultural uses:                                                         
    Agriculture                             P    P    P  P  P  P  P           
                                                                                  Sec.
                                                                                  8-2-4-
    Boarding/riding stables                 A    A    A  A  A  N  N          1 of
                                                                                  this
                                                                                  chapter
                                                                                  Sec.
                                                                                  8-2-4-
    Borrow pits for interchange and highway Ase  A                      4 of
                                                                                  this
                                                                                  chapter
                                                                                  Sec.
                                                                                  8-2-4-
   Cargo container storage unit              A    N    N  N  N  N  N          5 of
                                                                                  this
                                                                                  chapter
    Farmstead                               P    P    N  N  N  N  N           
    Intensive agriculture                   P    N    N  N  N  N  N           
                                                                                  Sec.
    Kennel                                  S    N    N  N  S  N  S          8-2-5-14
                                                                                  of this
                                                                                  chapter
Residential uses:                                                          
   Beekeeping                                A    A    A  A  A  A  A          Sec.
                                                                                  8-2-4-14
                                                See  See                          Sec.
    Chicken keeping                         note note A3 A3 N  N  N          8-2-4-7
                                                2    2
                                                                                  Sec.
                                                                                  8-2-4-
    Group homes                             A    A    A  A  S  N  N          6 of
                                                                                  this
                                                                                  chapter
                                                                                  Sec.
    Live-work units                         N    N    S  S  S  N            8-2-5-16
                                                                                  of this
                                                                                  chapter
                                                                                  Sec.
    Manufactured home park or subdivision   S    N    N  N  N  N  N          8-2-5-17
                                                                                  of this
                                                                                  chapter
    Multi-family                            N    N    N  S  N  N  N           
                                                                                  Sec.
    Single-family                           P    P    P  P  N  N  N          8-2-4-10
                                                                                  of this
                                                                                  chapter
    Single-family attached and two- family  N    N    S  A  N  N  N           
                                                                                  Sec.
    Single-family cluster                   N    N    S  P  N  N  N          8-2-5-29
                                                                                  of this
                                                                                  chapter
Home uses:                                                                 
                                                                        Sec.
    Home childcare                          P    P    P  P  P  N  N 8-2-3-     
                                                                        4 of this
                                                                        chapter
                                                                        Sec.
    Home occupation                         P    P    P  P  P  N  N 8-2-3-     
                                                                        5 of this
                                                                        chapter
Miscellaneous uses:                                                        
                                                                                  Sec.
    Solar collector systems                 A    A    A  A  A  A  A          8-2-4-11
                                                                                  of this
                                                                                  chapter
                                                                                  Sec.
    Solar farm                              S                S          8-2-5-30
                                                                                  of this
                                                                                  chapter
Institutional uses:                                                        
                                                                                  Sec.
                                                                                  8-2-5-
    College/university                      S    N    N  N  N  S  N          5 of
                                                                                  this
                                                                                  chapter
                                                                                  Sec.
                                                                                  8-2-5-
    Correctional facility                   N    N    N  N  N  N  S          7 of
                                                                                  this
                                                                                  chapter
                                                                                  Sec.
                                                                                  8-2-5-
    Daycare facility                        S    N    S  S  P  N  N          8 of
                                                                                  this
                                                                                  chapter
                                                                                  Sec.
    Institutional residential               S    S    S  S  S  N  N          8-2-5-13
                                                                                  of this
                                                                                  chapter
                                                                                  Sec.
    Places of public assembly               S    S    S  S  P  P  N          8-2-5-22
                                                                                  of this
                                                                                  chapter
                                                                                  Sec.
    Private club                            S    S    S  S  P  N  N          8-2-5-24
                                                                                  of this
                                                                                  chapter
                                                                                  Sec.
                                                                                  8-2-4-
    Public service facility                 A    A    A  A  P  P  A          8 of
                                                                                  this
                                                                                  chapter
                                                                                  Sec.
    Utilities, neighborhood                 A    A    A  A  A  A  P          8-2-4-13
                                                                                  of this
                                                                                  chapter
 
Notes:
    1.   All general use standards enumerated in section
8-2-3, "General Use Standards", of this chapter, shall apply to all land uses
enumerated in this table, as appropriate. Listings in this column are provided
as a convenient reference to certain applicable standards.
    2.    See section
8-2-3-1 of this chapter.
    3.    Only applicable to R, PR, and R-200 lots.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-012, 7-12-2011; Ord. 2012-010, 4-10-
2012; Ord. 2012-011, 4-10-2012; Ord. 2012-015, 4-10-2012; Ord. 2012-016, 4-10-
2012; Ord. 2020-003, 1-14-2020; Ord. 2021-016, 6-8-2021; Ord. 2021-018, 6-8-
2021)
TABLE 8-2-2-1B
NONRESIDENTIAL USES
 
P = Permitted use                            S = Special use
A = Permitted use with administrative review N = Prohibited use
 
         Zoning District                         Admin. Review Or Special Use
Land Use A AR PR R CG CI I General Use Standard1 Standard
                                                                        Zoning District             Admin.
                                                                                                    Review
                                                                                          General   Or
Land Use                                                                A AR PR R CG CI I Use       Special
                                                                                          Standard1 Use
                                                                                                    Standard

Commercial uses:                                                                             
                                                                                                    Sec.
                                                                                                    8-2-5-
    Agricultural support and other rural services                   S N  N  N P  N  N          2 of
                                                                                                    this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
                                                                                                    8-2-4-
    Bed and breakfast                                               A A  A  A A  P  N          3 of
                                                                                                    this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
                                                                                                    8-2-5-
    Car wash                                                        N N  N  N N  S  S          4 of
                                                                                                    this
                                                                                                    chapter
    Commercial lodging                                              N N  N  N N  P  N           
   Commercial outdoor shooting ranges (not including private firearm S N  N  N N  N  S          Sec.
ranges)                                                                                             8-2-5-36
                                                                                                    Sec.
                                                                                                    8-2-5-
    Commercial retail                                               N N  N  N N  P  S          6 of
                                                                                                    this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
                                                                                                    8-2-5-
    Drive-in/drive-through facility                                 N N  N  N N  S  S          9 of
                                                                                                    this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Garden center                                                   S N  N  N P  N  P          8-2-5-11
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Heavy retail and service                                        N N  N  N N  P  N          8-2-5-12
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                          Sec.
    Light automobile service                                        N N  N  N S  P  P 8-2-3-     
                                                                                          7 of this
                                                                                          chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Ministorage units                                               N N  N  N S  N  P          8-2-5-18
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Mixed use                                                       N N  N  N S  N  N          8-2-5-19
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
    Office                                                          N N  N  N P  P  P           
                                                                                                    Sec.
                                                                                                    8-2-4-
    Restaurant                                                      A N  N  N P  P  A          9 of
                                                                                                    this
                                                                                                    chapter
    Services                                                        N N  N  N P  P  N           
    Shopping center                                                 N N  N  N N  P  N           
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Vehicle sales, rental, and service                              N N  N  N N  P  S          8-2-5-31
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Veterinary practice                                             P N  N  N P  N  S          8-2-5-32
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
Recreation and amusement uses:                                                               
                                                                                                    Sec.
                                                                                                    8-2-5-
    Campgrounds and RV parks                                        S N  N  N N  N  N          3 of
                                                                                                    this
                                                                                                    chapter
    Commercial amusement, indoor                                    N N  N  N P  P  N           
    Commercial amusement, outdoor                                   N N  N  N N  P  N           
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Recreation, indoor                                              S N  N  S P  P  N          8-2-5-26
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Recreation, outdoor                                             S N  S  S P  N  N          8-2-5-27
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
Industrial uses:                                                                             
                                                                                                    Sec.
                                                                                                    8-2-5-
    Adult uses                                                      N N  N  N N  N  S          1 of
                                                                                                    this
                                                                                                    chapter
    Disposal                                                        (Regulated by separate county
                                                                        resolution)
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Extraction                                                      N N  N  N N  N  S          8-2-5-10
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
    Heavy industry                                                  N N  N  N N  N  P           
    Light industry                                                  N N  N  N N  N  P           
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Medical cannabis cultivation center                             N N  N  N N  N  S n/a       8-2-5-35
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Medical cannabis dispensing organization                        N N  N  N N  N  S n/a       8-2-5-35
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Outdoor cargo container storage and handling facilities         N N  N  N N  N  S          8-2-5-20
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Private airstrip                                                S N  N  N N  N  N          8-2-5-23
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Salvage activities                                              N N  N  N N  N  S          8-2-5-28
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Secs.
                                                                                                    8-2-4-
    Utilities, community                                            S S  S  S A  S  P          12,
                                                                                                    8-2-5-33
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
    Warehousing and transportation                                  N N  N  N N  N  P           
Miscellaneous uses:                                                                          
                                                                                                    Sec.
                                                                                                    8-2-4-
    Airports                                                        A N  N  N N  N  A          2 of
                                                                                                    this
                                                                                                    chapter
    Cemeteries                                                      A N  N  N N  N  N           
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Landscape waste composting and organic waste composting facilityS N  N  N N  N  S          8-2-5-15
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Parking (stand alone lot) and transit facilities                N N  N  N N  S  S          8-2-5-21
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Private pipelines                                               S S  S  S S  S  S          8-2-5-25
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Solar collector systems                                         A A  A  A A  A  A          8-2-4-11
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Solar farms                                                     S          S          8-2-5-30
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                                                    Sec.
    Utility scale wind energy conversion systems                    S N  N  N N  N  S          8-2-5-34
                                                                                                    of this
                                                                                                    chapter
                                                                        Regulated by 55 Illinois
    Wireless telecommunications facilities                          Compiled Statutes 5/5-       
                                                                        12001.1
 
Note:
   1.   All general use standards enumerated in section
8-2-3, "General Use Standards", of this chapter, shall apply to all land uses
enumerated in this table, as appropriate. Listings in this column are provided
as a convenient reference to certain applicable standards.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010; amd. Ord. 2012-015, 4-10-2012; Ord. 2012-016, 4-10-
2012; Ord. 2014-018, 11-10-2014; Ord. 2021-015, 6-8-2021; Ord. 2021-016, 6-8-
2021)
TABLE 8-2-2-1C
TEMPORARY USES
 
P = Permitted use                            S = Special use
A = Permitted use with administrative review N = Prohibited use
 
         Zoning District                         Admin. Review Or Special Use
Land Use A AR PR R CG CI I General Use Standard1 Standard
                                 Zoning District               Admin. Review Or
Land Use                                           General Use Special Use
                                 A AR PR R CG CI I Standard1   Standard

Temporary uses:                                         
    Commercial outdoor sales                               Sec.
event                            N N  N  N P  N  N            8-2-6 of this
                                                               chapter
                                                               Sec.
    Contractor's office      N N  A  A A  A  P            8-2-6-2 of this
                                                               chapter
                                                               Sec.
    Farm stand               A N  N  N N  N  N            8-2-6-3 of this
                                                               chapter
                                                               Sec.
    Model homes              N N  A  A N  N  N            8-2-6-4 of this
                                                               chapter
                                                               Sec.
    Sales office             N N  N  N N  A  A            8-2-6-6 of this
                                                               chapter
                                                               Sec.
    Special events           S N  N  N S  S  N            8-2-6-5 of this
                                                               chapter
 
Note:
   1.   All general use standards enumerated in section
8-2-3, "General Use Standards", of this chapter, shall apply to all land uses
enumerated in this table, as appropriate. Listings in this column are provided
as a convenient reference to certain applicable standards.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010; am. Ord. 2021-016, 6-8-2021)
8-2-2-2: UNLISTED USES:
   A.   Unlisted Uses Prohibited: Any use that is not listed in section
8-2-2-1,
table 8-2-2-1A, "Agricultural, Residential, And Institutional Uses";
8-2-2-1B, "Nonresidential Uses"; or
8-2-2-1C, "Temporary Uses", of this chapter is prohibited.
   B.   New And Similar Uses: It is not the intent to prohibit legitimate
similar uses or new uses similar to those that are listed. The director shall
decide whether the proposed use is either a subcategory of a permitted or
special use, or a use that is functionally similar to a permitted or special
use.
   C.   Decision Criteria: The following decision criteria shall be evaluated
when the land use department decides whether a proposed use is a subcategory
of, or functionally similar to, a permitted or special use:
      1.   Parking demand;
      2.   Average daily and peak hour trip generation (cars and trucks);
      3.   Water demand;
      4.   Solid waste generation;
      5.   Impervious surface;
      6.   Noise;
      7.   Lighting;
      8.   Dust;
      9.   Odors;
      10.   Use and storage of hazardous materials;
      11.   Character of buildings and structures;
      12.   Character of operation; and
      13.   Hours of operation.
   D.   Effect Of The Land Use Department's Determination:
      1.   If the land use department approves an application for a decision
pursuant to this section, then the land use shall be applied with the same
restrictions as the land use to which it was compared for the purposes of the
favorable decision.
      2.   If the land use department determines that a proposed land use is
not a subcategory of, or functionally similar to, an already listed land use,
then the proposed use is a prohibited use. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-3: GENERAL USE STANDARDS:
8-2-3-1: ACCESSORY AGRICULTURAL USES:
Accessory agricultural uses include growing crops or keeping livestock animals
on a parcel where this use is not the principal use of the parcel. This is a
common accessory use in Grundy County where a homeowner will have a large
garden or a small greenhouse on the property for the individual’s own use.
Accessory livestock animals are allowed by right in the A, AR, and PR zoning
districts. This use is permitted in combination with the keeping of other
livestock animals so long as the maximum number of allowed animal units (horses
and other types of livestock animals) in the relevant zoning district are not
exceeded.
Accessory agricultural uses include:
   Field crops.
   Greenhouse for private use only.
   Nursery for private use only.
   The keeping of livestock animals for personal use only and subject to the
following standards:
      A.   All buildings housing livestock animals shall be set back at least
one hundred feet (100') from all property lines.
      B.   Grazing livestock animals shall have one acre of continuous grazing.
For parcels greater than five acres, the grazing acreage shall be one acre of
grazing for each five acres of land, or fraction thereof.
      C.   Small birds, small reptiles, fish, and small mammals like gerbils,
rabbits, mice, and similar small animals are not limited in number.
      D.   The sanitation and management of the livestock animals shall comply
with the current Illinois Environmental Protection Agency for manure management
and the Animal Welfare Management regulations of the Illinois Department of
Agriculture.
      E.   There shall not be more than one animal unit per acre or part
thereof. The following table shows the value in animal units for mature
livestock animals permitted per acre of land:
 
TABLE 8-2-3-1
ANIMAL UNITS PER ACRE
Animal                                 Number Of Animal Units Minimum Lot Size
Horse, mule, Llama, Cow, swine         1.0 = 1 unit           2
Swine 500 pounds or less, miniature    2.0 = 1 unit           2
cattle
Sheep, goat, mini-horse, pony, alpaca, 3.0 = 1 unit           2
ostrich, mini-pig 200 pounds or less
Fowl, poultry1                         20 = 1 unit            1
Furbearing animals2                    20 = 1 unit            1
 
      Notes:
         1.   PR zoning district regulations that are at section
8-2-4-7 of this chapter.
         2.   Except dogs and cats, which are regulated by section
4-2-7 of this code.
   (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010; amd. Ord. 2012-011, 4-10-2012; Ord. 2021-017, 6-8-
2021)
8-2-3-2: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
All accessory structures shall meet the following standards:
   A.   Timing Of Construction: An accessory use or structure of one thousand
(1,000) square feet is allowed prior to construction of the principal
structure, with issuance of a building permit for said principal structure.
   B.   Use Restrictions: Accessory structures shall not be used for
residential occupancy or commercial purposes.
   C.   Location Of Structures: The following standards apply to the location
of freestanding accessory structures:
      1.   Permitted locations of accessory uses and structures are shown in
table 8-2-3-2, "Permitted Locations Of Accessory Uses", of this section.
            TABLE 8-2-3-2
            PERMITTED LOCATIONS OF ACCESSORY USES
 
Use Or Structure                                     Yard
                                                     Front Interior Side Rear1
Garages or carports, detached                        X     X             X
Open sided summer houses and gazebos                       X2            X
Sheds and storage buildings for garden equipment and       X2            X
household items
Swimming pools, private                                    X2            X
Decks more than 2 feet above grade                         X2            X
 
Notes:
   1.   If the rear yard is also a street yard, the permitted accessory
structure must be located at least 10 feet from any property line.
   2.   The structure may be located in a side yard (excluding street yard) of
a lot having an area of 1 acre or more in size, provided that the structure is
located at least 20 feet behind the extended front plane of the principal
building.
   2.   The location of freestanding accessory structures to multi- family or
attached dwellings shall be approved during the land development review process
to ensure that essential access is safe and the structures do not create a
nuisance to the adjoining properties.
   D.   Swimming Pools: Swimming pools must be fenced with at least a four foot
(4') fence with a gate that is self-latching and self- locking. Alternatively,
a swimming pool may be equipped with a power safety cover that complies with
the international building code in place of the fence; or a barrier may be
mounted on top of the pool to protect it from unauthorized use.
   E.   Maximum Building Area: The maximum area for accessory buildings and
structures on any lot shall not exceed five thousand (5,000) square feet.
   F.   Maximum Height: One story or twenty five feet (25'), whichever is
lower.
   G.   Height Measurement: Accessory structure height is calculated by
measuring the vertical distance from the average finished ground level around
the base of the structure to the highest point on the structure. (Ord. 10-001,
1-12-2010)
8-2-3-3: FENCES:
The following provisions shall apply to fences on parcels with nonagricultural
uses:
   A.   Requirements for all land uses:
      1.   Impedance Of Drainage: No fence or wall may be erected, constructed,
or maintained on any portion of a lot where the natural stormwater runoff would
be impeded.
      2.   Height And Setback Requirements: Fences shall comply with the height
and setback requirements displayed in
table 8-2-3-3, "Fence Height And Setback Requirements", of this section:
            TABLE 8-2-3-3
            FENCE HEIGHT AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS
 Zoning District Requirements
 Agricultural Residential Industrial All Others
                                                                          Zoning District Requirements
                                                                          Agricultural Residential Industrial All
                                                                                                              Others
Maximum heights:
   Interior side and rear yards                                        6 feet       6 feet      8 feet     8 feet
   Street (front) and street side yards                                4 feet       4 feet      8 feet     4 feet
   Area between front building line and street                         4 feet       4 feet      8 feet     4 feet
   In side or rear yard abutting a general commercial (CG), commercial 8 feet       8 feet      8 feet     8 feet
interchange (CI), or industrial (I) zoning district
   In side or rear yard abutting an arterial or collector street       8 feet       6 feet      8 feet     Not
                                                                                                              permitted
Minimum setbacks:
   From sidewalks                                                      n/a          0.5 foot    0.5 foot   0.5 foot
   From streets:
    Generally                                                          1 foot       5 feet      5 feet     5 feet
    Intersection of street lot lines                                   25 feet      25 feet     25 feet    25 feet
   From alleys                                                         1 foot       1 foot      1 foot     1 foot
 
      3.   Visibility: All fences located in the front yard (or a street facing
yard on a corner lot) shall not reduce visibility through the fence by more
than fifty percent (50%) when viewed at a ninety degree (90°) angle.
   B.   Residential land uses:
      1.   Design: Open picket fences that are located in front yards or street
side yards shall be designed such that less than fifty percent (50%) of the
face of the fence is opaque. Slats shall not be woven into chainlink fences in
front yards. See
figure 8-2-3-3A, "Fence Opacity", of this section.
FIGURE 8-2-3-3A
FENCE OPACITY
Opacity is measured as the total width of pickets (or other fence components)
between posts, divided by the distance between posts; or in the case of
horizontal fence types, the total width of horizontal fence elements divided by
the height of the fence.
Acceptable: Front yard fence with 50% opacity (50% of area between posts is
gaps).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1624.gif]
 
Unacceptable: Front yard fence with 80% opacity (only 20% of area between posts
is gaps).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1626.gif]
 
      2.   Orientation: The finished side of all fences shall face out toward
neighboring property or adjacent rights of way. See
figure 8-2-3-3B, "Fence Orientation", of this section.
FIGURE 8-2-3-3B
FENCE ORIENTATION
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/ edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1628.gif]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1630.gif]
 
      3.   Materials:
         a.   Materials shall be durable and of a character commonly used in
residential applications, including: weather resistant wood species, split
rail, wood treated with U.S. environmental protection agency approved
preservatives, painted wood, ornamental wrought iron or powder coated aluminum,
vinyl, brick, and stone.
         b.   Scrap lumber, plywood, sheet metal, plastic, or fiberglass sheets
are expressly prohibited. Spikes, nails, or other sharp point or instrument on
top or sides of such fence are prohibited. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
         c.   Welded wire, barbed wire, electric, agricultural fencing, and
chicken wire fences are permitted only in the agricultural (A) district and
agricultural residential (AR) districts that are greater than twenty (20) acres
in size that are intended to hold livestock. (Ord. 2014-006, 4-8-2014)
   C.   Commercial, institutional, and industrial land uses:
      1.   Yards Adjoining Streets: Unless the use is classified as an
industrial use in section
8-2-2-1, "
Table 8-2-2-1B, Nonresidential Uses", of this chapter, no fence shall be
permitted in any required front yard or side yard adjoining a street.
      2.   Materials: Barbed wire cradles facing inward toward the property may
be placed on top of fences enclosing public utility buildings or wherever the
director finds that such are necessary to address a demonstrated security
interest. The use of barbed wire shall be complemented with opaque landscaping,
such as a thick hedge, as illustrated in
figure 8-2-3-3C, "Barbed Wire Fence Buffering", of this section.
FIGURE 8-2-3-3C
BARBED WIRE FENCE BUFFERING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1632.gif]
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-3-4: HOME CHILDCARE:
Nonlicensed, home child daycare shall be permitted in single- family dwellings
for eight (8) or fewer unrelated children. Licensing requirements of the
Illinois department of children and family services (DCFS) are available in
DCFS bulletin #173, summary of licensing standards for day care centers, and
other DCFS publications. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-3-5: HOME OCCUPATION:
Home occupation accessory uses are permitted in the agricultural (A),
agricultural residential (AR), planned residential (PR), residential (R), and
commercial general (CG) districts subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Ownership Of Business: Home occupations shall be managed and owned by a
person residing in the dwelling unit. It shall be conducted within the premises
of such home and shall be incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for dwelling purposes.
   B.   Maximum Floor Area: Home occupations shall not exceed twenty five
percent (25%) of the gross floor area of the principal building, including the
cellar or basement. No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the floor area of
an accessory building shall be devoted to such occupation.
   C.   Employees: No more than one person shall be employed who is not a
member of the family residing in the dwelling.
   D.   Access: The entrance to the space devoted to such occupation shall be
from within the dwelling or the normal entrance to the accessory building.
   E.   Building Character: There shall be no display, storage, or activity
that will indicate from the exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for
any use other than as a dwelling.
   F.   Outdoor Storage: No outdoor storage is allowed.
   G.   Outdoor Display Of Merchandise: No commercial display of materials,
merchandise, goods, or equipment shall be visible from the exterior of the
dwelling unit unless located in the CG district.
   H.   Signage: One nameplate, no more than three (3) square feet, is
permitted unless located in the CG district.
      1.   It shall only contain the name of the occupant's business.
      2.   It shall not be illuminated.
      3.   It shall be set back at least twenty five feet (25') from the street
lot line.
   I.   Deliveries: Stock in trade, including that which is produced on the
premises, shall not require receipt or delivery of merchandise, goods, or
equipment by other than U.S. postal service mail, similar parcel delivery
service, or by a private passenger automobile or up to a three-quarter (3/4)
ton pickup truck.
   J.   Commercial Vehicles: Irrespective of subsection I of this section, the
home occupation shall not involve vehicles over seven thousand (7,000) pounds
or trailers parked on the premises in a place that is visible from adjoining
property or public rights of way, which identifies by sign, logo, or emblem the
occupation, business, or activity. This restriction is exempted in the CG
district, where commercial vehicles are allowed.
   K.   Nuisance: The home occupation shall not create or cause any perceptible
noise, glare, odor, smoke, electrical interference, or vibrations that
constitute a public or private nuisance to neighboring properties.
   L.   Risk: The home occupation shall not be more dangerous to life, personal
safety, or property than any other activity ordinarily carried on with respect
to a dwelling unit used solely for residential purposes.
   M.   Parking:
      1.   Parking for no more than five (5) vehicles is permitted unless
located in the CG district.
      2.   Parking spaces shall not be located in the required front yard.
   N.   Hours Of Operation: Home occupations shall not be generally open to the
public at times earlier than six o'clock (6:00) A.M. nor later than ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M.
   O.   Prohibited Operations: The following uses are prohibited as home
occupations:
      1.   Retail sales.
      2.   Professional services, teaching, counseling, instruction, or any
group activity involving more than five (5) persons at a time. The performance
of religious rites shall be exempted from this provision.
      3.   Storage of hazardous materials. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-3-6: LOADING, TRUCK ACCESS, AND WASTE STORAGE:
Where loading and truck access is located in any yard that abuts a residential
use or vacant property that can only be used for residential purposes, the
following shall be required:
   A.   Landscaping: The entire area shall be screened by a landscaped buffer,
as required by the landscaping requirements in chapter 9, "Landscaping And Tree
Protection", of this title.
   B.   Berm: A six foot (6') or taller berm or low maintenance, durable solid
fence or wall shall be provided.
   C.   Roof Enclosure: An alternative to subsections A and B of this section
is to place the loading and truck access activities within a structure, as
indicated in
figure 8-2-3-6, "Roof Enclosure", of this section.
FIGURE 8-2-3-6

ROOF ENCLOSURE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1634.gif]
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-3-7: LIGHT AUTOMOBILE SERVICE:
   A.   Pump And Canopy Setbacks: Gasoline dispensing pumps and service station
canopy roofs shall be set back fifteen feet (15') from all street frontages.
   B.   Canopy Design:
      1.   Canopies shall use a similar architectural style, materials, and
roofing as the principal building.
      2.   Canopies shall not be used as an extension of signage beyond that
which is allowed in chapter 5, "Signs", of this title.
      3.   The trim of the canopy shall not be internally or externally
illuminated. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-3-8: OUTDOOR DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE:
   A.   Items For Sale: Outdoor displays of merchandise by retail businesses
are permitted if the outdoor display area involves items for sale by a
commercial retailer located within a permanent structure or designated area on
the same site.
   B.   Restrictions: Outdoor displays of merchandise are allowed on a
continuous basis provided that they:
      1.   Are located adjacent to a principal structure wall and extending to
a distance of no more than fifteen feet (15') from the wall;
      2.   Inclusive of subsection A of this section, are located outside of
the public right of way and/or at least fifteen feet (15') from the back edge
of the adjacent curb or street pavement;
      3.   Do not block windows, entrances, or exits;
      4.   Do not cover more than one-half (1/2) of the width of a pedestrian
walkway, leaving a minimum of five feet (5') between the storefront and the
curb, or otherwise impede in any way the ability of pedestrians to access the
building;
      5.   Do not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the building's ground floor
area or one thousand (1,000) square feet, whichever is less;
      6.   Do not reduce the capacity of the parking areas required by this
title;
      7.   Allow multiple items to be displayed on a rack, but not stacked upon
each other.
      8.   Do not include any display that exceeds fifteen feet (15') in
height. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-3-9: OUTDOOR STORAGE OF COMMERCIAL GOODS:
New outdoor storage is prohibited except as provided in this section.
   A.   Limitations: The following standards apply to exterior storage, unless
otherwise specifically permitted:
      1.   Agricultural (A) district: Outdoor storage is permitted only on
farmsteads and must be related to a home business or permitted commercial
activity. The area shall be screened by a hedge or fence from residential
neighbors within one hundred fifty feet (150') and from public streets. The
storage area shall occupy no more than one percent (1%) of the property or
twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, whichever is less.
      2.   Commercial general (CG) and commercial interchange (CI) districts:
         a.   Storage is limited to goods actually sold on the premises of the
occupancy.
         b.   Outdoor storage area is limited to five percent (5%) of the
building's floor area.
         c.   Storage areas shall be designed to blend with the building facade
and screened with a wall in the same architectural materials as the building.
      3.   Industrial (I) district:
         a.   Storage is limited to materials used in manufacturing on the site
or to finished or partially finished goods after manufacture on the site. Cargo
in transit and cargo containers are regulated by section
8-2-5-20, "Outdoor Cargo Container Storage And Handling Facilities", of this
chapter.
         b.   If located within five hundred feet (500') from a property line,
the outdoor storage area shall be screened from the street by the building.
Where this is not achieved, then it shall be fully screened with landscaping.
         c.   The storage area shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the
building area unless a special use permit is obtained. Required screening for a
special use may include, but is not limited to, opaque landscaping or screening
as described below.
   B.   Screening:
      1.   Except in the industrial (I) district, all exterior or outdoor
storage shall be enclosed by a wall, berm, or opaque fence of sufficient height
to fully screen the stored materials from public view.
      2.   If a fence, rather than a solid wall, is used, then shrubs shall be
planted outside the fence at a maximum of thirty six inches (36") on center
around the entire periphery of the storage area. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-3-10: OUTDOOR STORAGE OF REFUSE:
   A.   Commercial, Institutional, Multi-Family Residential, And Industrial
Uses: Trash enclosures for commercial, institutional, multi-family residential
and industrial uses shall be screened according to the following standards:
      1.   Accessory Waste/Trash Storage Screening: Metal refuse containers,
waste bins, and similar common waste storage facilities shall be fully enclosed
with a one hundred percent (100%) opaque wooden fence, masonry wall, or earthen
berms. The required enclosure shall have wooden gates, which must remain
closed. The area shall be landscaped on three (3) sides as indicated in
figure 8-2-3-10, "Roofless Trash Enclosure", of this section.
FIGURE 8-2-3-10
ROOFLESS TRASH ENCLOSURE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1636.gif]
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-3-11: RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Agricultural And Agricultural Residential Lot Splits: Single- family
detached dwellings are permitted in both the agricultural (A) and the
agricultural residential (AR) zoning districts as follows:
      1.   Agricultural And Agricultural Residential Zoning Districts Minimum
Lot Size Requirements: A and AR zoning districts are allowed to have only one
lot for a dwelling that is a minimum of 1.5 acres in size. The lot or tract of
the land must be a lot of record as of July 8, 1980. Exceptions are only
permitted for attached accessory units. (See section
8-2-3-2, "Accessory Structures", of this chapter.)
      2.   Survey And Recording Of Lots: Prior to the establishment of a
residential lot, a legal description of the plat of survey, approved by a
registered surveyor, of the proposed residential lot shall be provided. This
survey shall show the lot lines of each lot(s) and the overall tract used to
satisfy the five (5) acres per dwelling unit density requirements. The
agricultural tract used to satisfy the density requirements must be surveyed
and must be recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds.
      3.   Agricultural Residential Maximum Number Of Units: One additional
dwelling unit up to a maximum of seven (7) additional units shall be permitted
for lots of record as of July 8, 1980, provided the overall tract of land on
which the lots are to be located contain an additional three (3) acres or more
for each such dwelling unit.
      4.   Adjustment Of Minimum Lot Size: The minimum lot size may be
increased subject to plan policies and/or septic system standards.
   B.   Extensions Of Residential Lots: In order to retain agricultural land in
agricultural use and in order to provide for low density residential
development on lands poorly suited to agricultural use in the agricultural (A)
district, peninsular extensions of residential lots to the required public
right of way may be granted.
      1.   The residential lots shall conform to subsection A of this section
and the conditions of this subsection when the proposed residential lot:
         a.   Is made up of more than fifty percent (50%) of nonprime soils as
defined in the county's land evaluation and site assessment (LESA); or
         b.   Is a lot of record at the effective date hereof which is five (5)
acres or less in size; or
         c.   Is a lot of record at the effective date hereof which is more
than five (5) acres, but less than 10.01 acres in size and is neither square
nor rectangular in shape; or
         d.   Is classified as woodlands where more than fifty percent (50%) of
the acreage of the lot contains deciduous or evergreen trees; or
         e.   Is classified as nonfloodplain where more than fifty percent
(50%) of the acreage of the lot is not in a floodplain as determined by the
latest national flood insurance program flood insurance rate map.
Peninsular extensions are excluded from computation of the minimum lot area.
      2.   Access driveways on said peninsular extensions shall meet the
following minimum standards:
         a.   A minimum driveway width of eighteen feet (18') and a clearance
of thirteen feet six inches (13'6") above grade.
         b.   A driveway greater than two hundred feet (200') in length must
receive specific design approval from the fire protection district in which it
is located.
         c.   A spacing requirement such that any access driveway must be
separated from the nearest access driveway along the same road by at least:
            (1)   One thousand five hundred feet (1,500') if average daily
traffic on the road is five hundred (500) or more vehicles per day.
            (2)   One thousand two hundred fifty feet (1,250') if average daily
traffic on the road is between two hundred fifty (250) and four hundred ninety
nine (499) vehicles per day.
            (3)   One thousand feet (1,000') if average daily traffic on the
road is two hundred forty nine (249) or fewer vehicles per day.
Average daily traffic is to be determined by the most recent Illinois
department of transportation map for the county.
         d.   Existing farmhouses with existing access driveways shall be
exempt from the driveway standards above.
         e.   A zoning certificate will be required for residential lots with
peninsular extensions to the required public road.
         f.   Shared access driveways on peninsular extensions shall be
allowed; provided, that shared driveway access shall be to no more than three
(3) residential lots. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-3-12: RESIDENTIAL STORAGE OF TRAILERS AND BOATS:
The following provisions shall apply to the temporary storage of trailers and
boats on residential parcels:
   A.   Trailers: Camping trailers, travel trailers, and other trailers (not
including mobile homes) shall only be permitted:
      1.   In a lawfully established camping area; or
      2.   On a lot lawfully used for the sale, rental, repair, storage, or
manufacture of such trailers, and then only when not used for dwelling or
camping purposes; or
      3.   On a lot containing a single-family detached dwelling; provided that
only one such trailer is permitted on each such lot. Furthermore, that such
trailer, be stored or parked in the rear yard at any time or in the front yard
from May 1 through November 1.
      4.   Temporary residential use during construction of a permanent
residential unit for a period not to exceed twenty four (24) months.
   B.   Boats: One boat owned by the occupant of the dwelling may be stored or
parked at any time in the rear yard of a lot containing a single-family
detached dwelling, or in the front or side yard from April 1 to November 1
provided no major repair, disassembly, or rebuilding operations are conducted
thereon. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-3-13: RESIDENTIAL STORAGE (INDOOR) AND UTILITY SHEDS:
One or more storage buildings are permitted on a residential lot provided that
the following standards are met:
   A.   Design: The storage building shall be a permanent structure that is
designed for storage use. Converted semitrailers, manufactured homes, modular
shipping containers, refuse containers, or similar structures or equipment
shall not be used for storage.
   B.   Occupancy: Storage and utility buildings shall not be used for human
habitation.
   C.   Location: Storage and utility sheds shall be erected in accordance with
the provisions of section
8-2-3-2, "
Table 8-2-3-2, Permitted Locations Of Accessory Uses", of this chapter.
   D.   Height: The structure shall not exceed twenty five feet (25') in
height. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-3-14: SMALL SCALE WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS:
   A.   Accessory Use: Small scale wind energy conversion systems (S-SWECS) are
allowed as an accessory use and structure in all zoning districts, subject to
the following requirements:
      1.   Height: The total height of a S-SWECS tower with blade or a
meteorological tower used in conjunction with the S-SWECS shall not exceed one
hundred feet (100') unless specifically allowed by the county board.
      2.   Setbacks: The setback of the towers shall not be less than the
following:
         a.   Lot lines: 1.1 times the total height of the structure.
         b.   Pipelines and public rights of way: 1.1 times the total height of
the structure.
         c.   Public roads: 1.1 times the total height of the structure.
         d.   Power or communication transmission line above or below ground:
1.1 times the total height of the structure.
         e.   Highways: 1.1 times the total height of the structure.
         f.   Inhabited structures on adjacent lands: 1.1 times the total
height of the structure.
      3.   Color, Finish, And Appearance: The tower and the blades of the S-
SWECS shall be nonreflective and unobtrusive color that will aid in blending
the system to the environment. The finish of the tower and the blades shall be
matte and nonreflective. No lettering, company insignia, advertising or
graphics shall be on any part of the tower, hub, or blades.
      4.   Blade Clearance: The vertical distance from the grade to the tip of
the wind turbine blade when the blade is at its lowest point must be at least
twenty five feet (25').
      5.   Lighting: No glare shall extend beyond the boundaries of the S-
SWECS. The applicant shall utilize the least intrusive lighting possible.
      6.   Landscaping: Applicant shall minimize the disruption of natural
environment, retain existing vegetation and native plant species to the maximum
extent feasible, and replant with native vegetation if existing vegetation is
disturbed during construction. Landscaping shall be used as part of screening
from adjacent properties or public view.
      7.   Federal And State Requirement Compliance: The S-SWECS shall meet or
exceed any standards and regulations of the FAA and any other agency of the
state or federal government with the authority to regulate S-SWECS.
      8.   Power Lines: All electrical control wiring and power lines shall be
wireless or not aboveground.
      9.   Sound Pressure Level: The sound pressure level generated by a S-
SWECS shall comply with all Illinois pollution control board (hereafter
referred to as IPCB) noise regulations and in no event shall a S-SWECS exceed
fifty five (55) dB at any point on adjacent properties. The applicant must
immediately cease any violation of the IPCB regulations unless said violation
is excused and waived by the affected landowners and occupants.
      10.   Safety/Climb Prevention: All S-SWECS shall be designed to prevent
unauthorized access to electrical and mechanical components or access to the
towers on the site. All towers shall not be climbable from the ground to
fifteen feet (15') aboveground, and all access doors to towers and equipment
shall be lockable.
      11.   Waste Disposal: All solid waste generated from supplies, equipment,
parts, packaging, or operation of the facility shall be removed from the site
immediately and disposed of in an appropriate manner. Any hazardous waste that
is generated by the facility, including, but not limited to, lubricating
materials, shall be removed consistent with all local, state, and federal rules
and regulations.
      12.   Conformance To Industry And Code Standards/Engineer Certification:
The S-SWECS shall comply with all applicable local and county codes for the
electrical, mechanical, and structural components of the facility. All
documents provided for review shall be stamped and signed by a professional
engineer.
      13.   Electronic Interference: The S-SWECS shall not cause microwave,
television, radio or navigation interference contrary to federal communication
commission (FCC) rules and regulations or any other laws pertaining to
electronic interference issues.
      14.   Braking Systems: The owner of the S-SWECS shall have the ability to
immediately cease operation of the system during an emergency. The system
itself shall be equipped with an emergency braking system.
      15.   Signage: No signs, banners or flags shall be placed on the S-SWECS
with the exception of the required identifications provided by the manufacturer
and any warnings thereto.
   B.   Administration And Review: A site plan shall be provided to the land
use department that indicates the following:
      1.   Location, setbacks, exterior dimensions and square footage of all
structures on the owner's property.
      2.   Location of any existing waterways, wetlands, and 100-year
floodplains, sanitary sewers, storm sewer systems, and water distribution
systems.
      3.   Location of any overhead power lines.
      4.   The locations and the expected duration of shadow flicker caused by
the S-SWECS system. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-3-15: VEHICLE SALES:
   A.   General: Except as specified below, it is unlawful to display any
vehicles, including automobiles, boats, lawn equipment, all- terrain vehicles,
or other similar items, for sale or lease, unless the sale of such items is
permitted within the district and the current certificate of occupancy for the
location has been obtained from the county.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   The vehicle must be a private vehicle, owned by the occupant.
      2.   Such private vehicle, boat, trailer, or recreational vehicle is in
operating condition.
      3.   No portion of the vehicle shall be placed on the public right of
way.
      4.   No more than one vehicle at any time shall be offered for sale.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-3-16: VISION CLEARANCE FOR CORNER LOTS:
To avoid obstructing the sight lines of traffic approaching an intersection,
the following provisions shall apply to corner lots within any part of a yard
located within a radius of twenty five feet (25') from the intersection of two
(2) street right of way lines forming the lot corner:
   A.   Ground Plantings: No structures, objects, or shrubbery shall be erected
or placed having a height more than thirty inches (30") above the ground grade
within this area.
   B.   Maintenance Of Trees And Branches: Any trees planted in such areas
shall be maintained in a manner that they shall not have branches lower than
eight feet (8') above the ground grade elevation of the area. (Ord. 10-001, 1-
12-2010)
8-2-4: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW USE STANDARDS:
This section
8-2-4 sets forth the specific standards to mitigate potential impact of land
uses that would otherwise be approved unconditionally. These uses are
referenced in the land use tables presented in section
8-2-2-1, "Land Use Tables", of this chapter. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-4-1: BOARDING/RIDING STABLES:
Boarding/riding stables may be permitted in the agricultural (A), agricultural
residential (AR), planned residential (PR), and residential (R) districts,
subject to administrative review that demonstrates that the following
provisions are met:
   A.   The maximum number of horses allowed shall be based on the subject
property's lot size and shall be determined as follows:
      1.   One horse for the first two (2) acres.
      2.   One horse for each additional one-half (1/2) acre above two (2)
acres.
   B.   The stables must be located at least one hundred feet (100') from all
property lines.
   C.   Rental of stable space is permitted; however, no group riding lessons
or public events shall be allowed. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-4-2: AIRPORTS:
Airports shall be permitted in the agricultural (A) and industrial (I)
districts, subject to administrative review that demonstrates that the
following provisions are met:
   A.   Minimum Site Area: The minimum site area for this use shall be three
hundred (300) acres.
   B.   Noise Impact: All airport development shall be submitted with a noise
impact assessment. The assessment shall identify the initial and twenty (20)
year projected day-night level (DNL) noise contour lines beginning with 50 DNL
and proceeding to 75 DNL. The following standards shall be met:
      1.   Airport Boundary: The twenty (20) year, 65 DNL line shall lie
completely within airport property or land that has been granted a noise
easement.
      2.   55 DNL Limited Development Area:
         a.   No new residential development shall be permitted within the 55
DNL line. If for some reason a new residential use must be permitted, the
building shall have insulation and windows that limit aircraft noise within the
building to 50 DNL. The applicant shall demonstrate that there is no
residentially zoned land in the 55 DNL area or that noise easements have been
granted to the airport.
         b.   Existing residential uses shall have five (5) years to remodel to
provide insulation meeting the standards in subsection B2a of this section.
         c.   If the 55 DNL area expands, a zoning and land use plan for all
land within the 55 DNL noise contour shall be submitted. This plan shall
indicate the feasibility of restricting such land to nonresidential uses.
Airport approval shall be based on the ability to minimize noise intrusion into
existing residential areas and to prohibit new residential development that
would hinder future airport expansion.
         d.   Once established, the county shall require all rezonings or
development approvals that would permit residential use within the 55 DNL noise
contour to record the noise contours on the property. In addition, all
developments and all individual lot surveys shall show the noise contours, with
an accompanying warning indicating the county will not restrain future airport
growth because of residential development inside the 55 DNL noise contour.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-4-3: BED AND BREAKFAST:
A bed and breakfast shall be permitted in the agricultural (A), agricultural
residential (AR), planned residential (PR), residential (R), and commercial
general (CG) districts subject to administrative review that demonstrates that
the following provisions are met:
   A.   Number Of Units: No more than five (5) rooms shall be available for
clientele occupancy.
   B.   Building: The bed and breakfast is a reuse of an existing single-family
building having a minimum floor area of two thousand (2,000) square feet.
Additions shall amount to no more than sixty percent (60%) of the total floor
area, subject to the provisions of chapter 3, "District Intensity And Bulk
Standards", of this title.
   C.   Signs: Signs must be constructed of wood or other durable, nonplastic
material and shall be affixed flat against the principal structure or
constructed as a monument sign that is no more than four feet (4') in total
height. The maximum sign area is as follows:
      1.   In the agricultural (A) district: Sixteen (16) square feet.
      2.   Other districts where permitted as a special use: Five (5) square
feet.
   D.   Parking: Bed and breakfast uses must provide for all parking off
street, which shall be fully screened from adjoining land uses by hedges and
canopy trees. The director may permit on street parking to be substituted for
off street parking upon determining that the street can accommodate the
required parking and that off street parking would be detrimental to the
character of the area. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-4-4: BORROW PITS:
Borrow pits for interchange and highway projects may be permitted in the
agricultural (A) and the agricultural residential (AR) zoning districts. The
construction of the borrow pits shall be subject to an administrative review by
the development review committee and demonstrate compliance with the following
provisions:
   A.   Borrow pits shall comply with the requirements of the Grundy County
stormwater ordinance.
   B.   The borrow pit shall be located such that any point along the bank of
the pit is not closer than seventy five feet (75') from any part of an
underground and/or aboveground septic tank or well system.
   C.   A setback of twenty five feet (25') shall be established between the
right of way, easement access point and property lines of the parcel shall be
established.
   D.   The maximum size of a borrow pit shall not exceed one-third (1/3) of
the parcel and shall be constructed on a lot that has a minimum size of one
acre. For parcels that are ten (10) acres or greater in size the borrow pit
shall not be larger than twenty five percent (25%) of the parcel in which it is
intended to be located.
   E.   Prior to the excavation of the borrow pit, the excavator shall install
a fence to surround the pit that is six feet (6') in height, lockable and
equipped with a knox box that is accessible by the jurisdictional fire
district. Once the borrow pit has been completed and excavation has ceased, the
fence shall be removed. (Ord. 2012-010, 4-10-2012)
8-2-4-5: CARGO CONTAINER STORAGE UNIT:
Cargo containers are permitted as an administrative use in A agricultural
zoning districts. All cargo containers used in A agricultural zoning districts
need to comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Location:
      1.   Shall be placed in the rear yard of the property.
      2.   Placed five hundred feet (500'0") from lot lines.
      3.   Cargo container(s) shall be placed a minimum of ten feet (10'0")
from any residential or accessory structures on the property.
      4.   Cargo containers shall not be placed within the limits of the
floodplain in accordance with the floodplain administrator.
   B.   Lot Size And Limit Of Number Of Containers: The ratio of amount of
cargo containers allowed per acre is one cargo container per fifty (50) acres.
No more than four (4) cargo containers maximum is allowed.
   C.   Limitations In Use:
      1.   The cargo container(s) shall be limited to agricultural uses only
and shall conform to all requirements set forth by the state and federal
requirements.
      2.   Stacking cargo containers is prohibited.
      3.   Cargo container(s) shall be placed such that the container(s) is not
in view of adjacent properties.
      4.   Cargo container(s) shall be supported to prevent shifting of the
structure.
      5.   Cargo container(s) shall be a single neutral color.
   D.   Housing Of Livestock: Cargo containers used as shelter of livestock for
agricultural purposes shall have the proper ventilation, and sanitation for the
animals housed. The cargo containers shall comply with all state, federal and
Grundy County codes for the storage of these animals. (Ord. 2011-012, 7-12-
2011; amd. Ord. 2012-010, 4-10-2012)
8-2-4-6: GROUP HOMES:
Group homes are permitted in the agricultural (A), agricultural residential
(AR), planned residential (PR), and residential (R) districts, subject to
administrative review that determines that the following requirements are met:
   A.   The use is situated in a single-family building.
   B.   The building existed on the effective date of this UDO. (Ord. 10-001,
1-12-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-012, 7-12-2011; Ord. 2012-010, 4-10-2012)
8-2-4-7: CHICKEN KEEPING:
Chickens may be permitted in R residential districts, PR, and R-200 zoning
districts as a permitted use. The following regulations shall be applied:
   A.   Minimum lot size for the keeping of chickens is one-half (½) acre. The
ratio of chickens to area shall be a maximum of six (6) hens per half acre.
   B.   No roosters are allowed to be kept on the parcel.
   C.   All chickens shall be kept within a coop that is located in the rear of
the parcel. The rear yard shall be completely enclosed with a four foot (4')
high fence. The coop shall be a minimum of twenty-five feet (25') from the
adjacent lot lines of residentially used lots and ten feet (10') from non-
residential lot lines.
   D.   Coops shall be at least four feet (4') in height and allow for a
minimum of six (6) sf per hen. The owner shall be registered with the Illinois
Department of Agriculture, and be compliant with the Grundy County Health
Department and other county regulations.
   E.   All coops shall be kept in a sanitary condition, dry, be properly
ventilated, and predator-proof.
   F.   Food shall be kept in a predator-proof container and inside a secure
structure.
   G.   All chickens shall be handled in a sanitary manner, be properly fed,
and provided clean water daily.
   H.   All animal byproducts and waste shall be collected on a daily basis.
Chicken manure may be kept in a three (3) cubic foot container and all other
waste should be properly disposed of.
   I.   Odors from the chickens, chicken manure, or other substances related to
chicken keeping shall not be considered a nuisance beyond the lot lines of the
parcel in which they are kept.
   J.   Chickens shall be protected against predators and rodents through a
fenced in areas for the chickens.
   K.   Sales of eggs and/or fowl are prohibited on the property. (Ord. 2012-
011, 4-10-2012; amd. Ord. 2020-003, 1-14-2020; Ord. 2021-037, 11-9-2021)
8-2-4-8: PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY:
Public service facilities shall be permitted in the agricultural (A),
agricultural residential (AR), planned residential (PR), residential (R), and
industrial (I) districts, subject to administrative review that demonstrates
that the following provisions are met:
   A.   Building Character: The building accommodating the public service use
has a physical character that resembles other uses that are commonly found in
the district in which it is located.
   B.   Buffer: If the public service use is a structure that is not a
building, then it is buffered on all sides with a landscape buffer pursuant to
the requirements of section
8-9-3, "Landscaping And Buffer Areas", of this title. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010;
amd. Ord. 2011-012, 7-12-2011; Ord. 2012-010, 4-10-2012; Ord. 2012-011, 4-10-
2012)
8-2-4-9: RESTAURANT:
Restaurants shall be allowed in the agricultural (A) and industrial (I)
districts subject to the following administrative review provisions:
   A.   Maximum Floor Area: The restaurant has a floor area of less than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet.
   B.   Location: It shall be located on a farmstead.
   C.   Capacity: Customer seating capacity shall be limited to forty (40)
persons.
   D.   Building Design: The restaurant building shall have the architecture
and character of the existing rural setting. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010; amd. Ord.
2011-012, 7-12-2011; Ord. 2012-010, 4-10-2012; Ord. 2012-011, 4-10-2012)
8-2-4-10: SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLINGS:
Single-family detached dwellings shall be permitted in the agricultural (A)
district subject to review that determines that the following requirements are
met:
   A.   Vesting: Development shall only be permitted on a lot of record as of
July 8, 1980.
   B.   Maximum Number Of Dwellings: No more than five (5) dwellings shall be
permitted.
   C.   Density:
      1.   Each lot split requires that twenty (20) acres of land is reserved
for agricultural or preservation purposes.
      2.   Therefore, there shall be only one lot of a minimum of 1.5 acres for
one division and all other divisions shall be a minimum of five (5) acres in
size. Each lot of division shall have twenty (20) acres of agricultural land
reserved in perpetuity for agricultural uses.
      3.   The overall acreage for an agricultural tract of land shall not be
considered to be reduced by the director for determining the number of
permitted dwellings due to the transfer of a portion of said tract or land for
purposes of pipeline or state, county, or township road rights of way.
   D.   Lot Configuration:
      1.   The minimum lot size shall be 1.5 acres.
      2.   The minimum lot width shall be one hundred seventy feet (170').
      3.   The newly created lots shall be contiguous with each other and shall
share a joint entrance to an existing township or county road or to a state
highway.
   E.   Subdivision Required: The following provisions are required for lots
that are less than five (5) acres or any lot that does not have frontage on a
public road:
      1.   Prior to establishment of a new residential lot, a legal description
and plat of survey by a registered land surveyor of the proposed residential
lot(s) shall be provided showing the lot lines of such lot(s).
      2.   The plat shall be approved in accordance with section
8-6-2, "Application Submittal Requirements", of this title. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010; amd. Ord. 2011-012, 7-12-2011; Ord. 2012-010, 4-10-2012; Ord. 2012-011,
4-10-2012)
8-2-4-11: SOLAR COLLECTOR SYSTEMS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide regulations for the
permitting of individual solar collector systems as an administrative use for
all zoning districts. This section includes regulations for the construction of
roof mounted, building integrated photovoltaic, pole mounted, and ground
mounted solar collector units in regard to total height, setback provisions,
and reflection. This section makes the distinction that individual solar
collector systems shall be classified as accessory structures.
   B.   Definitions:
    INDIVIDUAL SOLAR COLLECTION SYSTEMS: A panel or other solar device that is
capable of collecting, storing, or transmitting at least twenty five thousand
(25,000) btus. A solar collector may be a photovoltaic, plate type designed to
convert solar energy into electric energy, or a structural element that is
designed to collect solar energy and transmit it to internal spaces for
heating. The following are definitions of the type of systems that this section
will regulate:
      Building Integrated Photovoltaic Unit: A system that is integrated into
the structure of that building. Some examples of this are roofing tiles,
carports, awnings, and curtain walls.
      Ground Mount: A solar collector system in which an array is mounted onto
the ground such as a wedge structure constructed from steel supports that are
anchored into concrete footings. The structure itself is built from aluminum or
galvanized steel.
      Pole Mount: A solar collector system that consists of an array that is
mounted on top of a single steel pole which is affixed to the ground. Pole
mounted units have the capability of being pitched such that the angle of the
array may be altered during the year to optimize the amount of solar energy
collected.
      Roof Mount: A solar collector system with an array of solar panels that
are located on the roof of a structure. The solar collector system shall be
installed such that it is attached directly to and supported by a structural
member of the building.
   SOLAR ENERGY: Radiant energy that is received through direct, diffuse, or
reflected means from the sun.
   SOLAR RIGHT: A property owner has the right to have an unobstructed line of
sight path from a solar collector to the sun which permits radiation from the
sun to be collected. The extent of the solar right is the amount of
illumination provided by the path of the sun on a winter solstice day.
   WINTER SOLSTICE DAY: On December 21 which marks the beginning of winter in
the northern hemisphere when the sun reaches its most southern point.
   C.   Solar Panel Requirements: Certification of the solar collection system
in accordance with the Solar Collector And Certification Corporation (SRCC) and
all manufacturers' installation instructions shall be provided to the Grundy
County building and zoning officer. All solar collection systems shall be
limited to one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the electrical and/or thermal
energy requirements of the structure as determined by a contractor licensed to
install such systems. Solar collection systems connected to the electrical
utility grid system may be installed once an interconnected customer-owner
agreement is reached. This agreement shall be provided to the building and
zoning officer at the time of building permit application submittal.
   In the event of a power failure, solar collection systems that are
interconnected to the grid system shall shut down until full power is restored
by the electrical utility company. The solar collector electrical components
need to be marked as such for emergency responders with an appropriate warning
and guidance. Marking material shall be weather resistant in accordance with UL
969. An emergency shutoff mechanism shall be installed and notice of its
location shall be provided for emergency responders. All solar collectors shall
be certified by a third party and comply with all Grundy County building code
requirements and manufacturer's installation instructions.
   Owners of solar collector systems shall have solar rights to collecting
solar energy from their property for their energy consumption.
   Solar collector systems shall not be placed in the vicinity of any airport
in a manner that would interfere with airport flight patterns.
   The following requirements shall be applied to all installations of
individual solar collection systems:
      1.   Ground Mounted And Pole Mounted Solar Collection Systems:
         a.   The parcel in which the ground mounted or pole mounted solar
collection systems are to be installed shall be a minimum of one acre in size
and shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the lot area.
         b.   Setbacks for the installation of the solar collection system
shall meet with the requirements of the zoning district in which it is located.
         c.   Solar collectors shall be considered to be accessory to the main
structure of the parcel.
         d.   All pole mounted solar collection system installations shall be
within the side and rear yard of the property and shall be limited in height to
twenty feet (20').
         e.   All exterior electrical or plumbing lines serving the solar
collector system shall be buried below the surface of the ground in accordance
with the requirements of the Grundy County building code.
         f.   Ground mounted solar collectors (including framework) shall not
exceed a height of six feet (6') above grade.
         g.   Reflection angles from the solar collector systems' surfaces
shall be oriented away from adjacent structures that are constructed on
adjacent properties or roadways.
         h.   All mechanical equipment of the solar collection system such as
storage cells or batteries shall be enclosed with a minimum six foot (6') fence
that is self-locking.
      2.   Roof Mounted And Building Integrated Photovoltaic Solar Collection
Systems:
         a.   All exterior electrical and plumbing lines and components that
serve these systems shall be buried below the surface of the ground and comply
with the requirements of the Grundy County building code.
         b.   Conduit lines that run below the roof sheathing shall be
installed such that they are below the roof deck by a depth of ten inches (10")
and are not installed such that they are perpendicular to roof rafters.
         c.   Reflection angles from collector surfaces shall be oriented away
from adjacent structures constructed on adjacent properties.
         d.   Roof mounted units or building integrated photovoltaic solar
collection systems (tiles) shall be installed such that they do not exceed the
height restrictions of the zoning district in which they are located. A path of
three feet (3') shall be provided from any peak, eave or valley of the roof for
emergency accessibility and ventilation opportunities for emergency responders.
   D.   Application To The Building And Zoning Officer: All submittals to the
building and zoning officer shall contain the following information in addition
to that included on the application form:
      1.   Standard drawings of the solar collector system, including design
and dimensions of panels, base, mounting poles, footings, and anchors. Overall
height from natural grade to tip of the uppermost panel, and the square footage
of the entire system structures shall be provided in the submittal.
      2.   Projected amount of energy created or offset of the solar collector
shall be provided.
      3.   All manufacturer's installation and specification sheets shall be
provided including all certifications. The installation instructions shall
contain such items as the make, model, listing, size, weight, snow and wind
load abilities of the solar collector system.
   E.   Site Plan: The following items shall be provided on the site plan
submitted at the time of building permit application:
      1.   A scaled layout of the solar collector systems as proposed on the
property or building. Site plans for the ground or pole mounted systems should
include building envelope, base flood elevations (if necessary), location and
footprint of the structures, adjacent roads and property lines.
      2.   The location of the panel installations, the main service location,
and the locations of all equipment and disconnect.
      3.   Depiction and explanation of the main use of the property and the
location of the adjacent buildings, trees, parking lot (if applicable) and
landscaping. (Ord. 2012-016, 4-10-2012)
8-2-4-12: UTILITIES, COMMUNITY:
Community utilities shall be permitted in the commercial general (CG) district,
subject to administrative review that determines that the following standards
are met:
   A.   Buffer: The facility shall be surrounded by a landscape buffer 1.5
times the requirements of section
8-9-3, "Landscaping And Buffer Areas", of this title.
   B.   Design Compatibility: In the commercial general (CG) district, the
design of the community utilities shall be compatible with the residential
environment. Masonry walls, rather than fences, shall be used to screen the
facility. The street faces shall be improved to provide continuation of the
sidewalk areas, with landscaping designed to make the utility a part of the
commercial area. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-012, 7-12-2011; Ord.
2012-010, 4-10-2012; Ord. 2012-011, 4-10-2012; Ord. 2012-016, 4-10-2012)
8-2-4-13: UTILITIES, NEIGHBORHOOD:
Neighborhood utilities shall be permitted in the agricultural (A), agricultural
residential (AR), planned residential (PR), residential (R), commercial general
(CG), and commercial interchange (CI) districts, subject to administrative
review that demonstrates that the following provisions are met:
   A.   Utility Substations: Electrical, gas, or other utility substations
shall be screened from view from public rights of way and abutting properties
by:
      1.   Enclosure in structures that are designed to appear to be buildings;
or
      2.   Landscape buffer pursuant to section
8-9-3, "Landscaping And Buffer Areas", of this title, which may include a fence
if necessary for safety or security reasons.
   B.   Other Facilities: Lift stations, telephone switches, ground mounted
transformers, and similar facilities shall be screened from view from public
rights of way and abutting properties by:
      1.   Enclosure within a building; or
      2.   Enclosure by a hedge composed of shrubs planted thirty six inches
(36") on center and maintained at a height that is at least equal to the
utility facility. A fence may be located behind the hedge if necessary for
safety or security reasons. An opening on one side of the facility of a size
that is sufficient to provide access is permitted, provided that it does not
face a public right of way, unless otherwise required by the county engineer in
the case of public facilities which require such access.
   C.   Buildings: Any building associated with a neighborhood utility facility
shall be designed to be compatible with other buildings in the neighborhood.
Design elements include facade and roofing materials, roof pitch, height and
scale, and orientation of blank walls. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-
012, 7-12-2011; Ord. 2012-010, 4-10-2012; Ord. 2012-011, 4-10-2012; Ord. 2012-
016, 4-10-2012)
8-2-4-14: BEEKEEPING:
Beekeeping is allowed as an administrative use as long as all of the following
regulations are followed and maintained for the apiary. (Ord. 2021-018, 6-8-
2021)
8-2-4-14-1: DENSITY OF HIVES:
Two hives and one nucleus hive shall be permitted on lots having a minimum of
10,000 sf in area. An additional hive and nucleus hive may be added for each
additional 10,000 sf of area of the lots. (Ord. 2021-018, 6-8-2021)
8-2-4-14-2: LOCATION AND SETBACKS:
Colonies shall be placed in the rear or the side of the lots and shall have the
following setback distances:
   30'-0" from the side and rear property lines
   100-0" from any occupied structure on an adjacent lot
   100'-0" from any street, public walkway, or front lot line
   150'-0" from lot lines to sensitive use parcels
Orientation of the colonies shall be such that the entrance to the hives is
oriented away from the closest adjacent property line. (Ord. 2021-018, 6-8-
2021)
8-2-4-14-3: FENCING OF COLONIES:
For properties that are one acre or less, the colonies shall be secure with a
fence that has a minimum height of four feet (4'-0") and prevents climbing. The
gate(s) for this contained space shall be lockable to prevent entry by anyone
but the beekeeper(s). (Ord. 2021-018, 6-8-2021)
8-2-4-14-4: SIGNAGE:
Signs shall be placed along the fencing for the colonies that is a maximum
often inches (10") by one foot (1'-0") and faces outward stating the following,
“II State Registered Beehive(s) on Property”. Lettering for the sign shall be
of contrasting color and be of a font that is legible. Signs shall be placed on
each side of the contained space for the colonies. (Ord. 2021-018, 6-8-2021)
8-2-4-14-5: WATER AND FOOD SUPPLY:
   A.   A supply of fresh water for the bees needs to provide that is located a
maximum distance of ten feet (10'-0") from the colonies. Water supply shall be
provided once the outdoor ambient temperature is fifty degrees and rising for
more than three days and when the bees are active.
   B.   Beekeeper shall ensure that there is a food source on the parcel such
as a garden with native pollinator species that provides flowers throughout the
growing season for nutrition of the colony. (Ord. 2021-018, 6-8-2021)
8-2-4-14-6: QUEENS:
All colonies shall have a marked queen. If at any time the colony exhibits
unusual aggressive characteristics and/or the disposition to swarming, the
beekeeper shall re-queen the colony immediately with another marked queen that
is selected from European stock breed for gentleness. (Ord. 2021-018, 6-8-2021)
8-2-4-14-7: FLYWAY BARRIERS:
For lots that are less than one acre (43,560 sf) in size, a flyway barrier
shall be provided such that a fence or maintained shrub that is six foot in
height is placed between the colony and lot lines that forces the bees to fly
at that elevation prior to entering into the hive. This flyway barrier shall
extend five foot in each direction between the hive entrance and the property
line. (Ord. 2021-018, 6-8-2021)
8-2-4-14-8: MAINTENANCE OF THE APIARY AND HIVES:
Beekeepers shall ensure that the materials for the colonies are kept in a good
working condition and that the parcel and hives are kept clean and free of
build-up of wax, comb or other materials that may encourage robbing by other
bees or wildlife. Removal of materials from the colony shall be removed in
sealed containers or placed within a building or other bee-proof such that
those materials are not accessible to bees or their predators.
Hives shall be properly vented, predator-resistant, and designed for easy
access for cleaning, maintenance and inspection. (Ord. 2021-018, 6-8-2021)
8-2-4-14-9: ADMINISTRATIVE ZONING PERMIT COMPLIANCE:
All beekeepers shall receive an Administrative Zoning Permit prior to the
installation of their apiary. The following shall be provided along with the
Apiary Compliance Application form to the Grundy County Land Use Department:
   A.   Beekeeper shall be in compliance with the Illinois Bees and Apiaries
Act (510 ILCS 20/).
   B.   Beekeepers shall provide proof of a minimum of eight hours of
successful education for beekeeping in compliance with State requirements.
   C.   Colonies shall be registered with the Illinois Department of
Agriculture.
   D.   All site information and details that show compliance to all
subsections of Section
8-2-4-14. (Ord. 2021-018, 6-8-2021)
8-2-5: SPECIAL USE STANDARDS:
This section
8-2-5 sets out specific standards to mitigate the impacts of administrative and
special uses referenced in the land use tables presented in section
8-2-2-1, "Land Use Tables", of this chapter. Additional standards may be
applied as determined necessary. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-1: ADULT USES:
Adult uses may be permitted as a special use in the industrial (I) district,
subject to the following standards:
   A.   Separation: The following separation standards shall apply to all
sexually oriented establishments:
      1.   No such use shall be located within a one thousand foot (1,000')
radius of any other such use.
      2.   No such use shall be located within a one thousand foot (1,000')
radius of any parcel located in a residential zoning district or portion of a
planned unit development designated for residential purposes or a municipal
boundary.
      3.   No such use shall be located within a one thousand foot (1,000')
radius of any school whether public or private, daycare home or center or
nursery, religious institution, park, playing field, pool or billiard hall,
coin operated amusement center, dance center, ice or roller skating rinks or
parks or other public recreational facility typically catering to minors,
indoor or outdoor theaters, art gallery, museum, libraries, other areas where
large numbers of minors travel or congregate.
      4.   The aforementioned separation and radius standards shall be measured
in a straight line from the closest points between property line to property
line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, for sexually
oriented establishments that are located on a single tenant parcel. If said
establishment is located within a multi-tenant building, the measurement shall
be from the property line of the entire multi-tenant premises to the property
line of other uses, without regard to the intervening structures or objects,
which requires the separation.
   B.   Nearby Residential Occupancy: No such use shall be allowed within the
same block or portion thereof where a residential occupancy exists.
   C.   Single Use Within Premises Or Building: Not more than one such use
shall be located in one building or on one parcel or zoning lot.
   D.   Nonaccessory Use: No adult use shall be permitted to operate as an
accessory use to another principal use.
   E.   Conduct Of Business: No sexually oriented establishment shall be
conducted in any manner that permits the observation of any material depicting,
describing, or relating to specified anatomical areas and/or specified sexual
activities by display, decorations, signage, show window, or other opening from
any public right of way.
   F.   Signage:
      1.   Signage for such establishments shall be subject to the applicable
standards as set forth in section
8-5-4-4, "Signs Permitted In The Industrial (I) District", of this title.
      2.   Signage for such establishments shall not display any pictures,
photographs, silhouettes, drawing, or other pictorial representations of a
sexually oriented nature and may contain only the legal name and address of
said establishment.
   G.   Hours Of Operation: Adult uses shall not operate between the hours of
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-2: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT AND OTHER RURAL SERVICES:
Agricultural supplies, storage, and related uses may be permitted as a special
use in the agricultural (A) district, subject to the requirements of this
section.
   A.   Minimum Lot Size: Five (5) acres.
   B.   Minimum Setback Requirements:
      1.   Buildings: Thirty five feet (35'), all yards.
      2.   Bulk petroleum, LP/propane gas, and ammonia storage tanks: One
hundred feet (100'), all yards.
   C.   Access: The site shall have frontage on and access to a collector or
higher classification street, provided the county board may approve alternative
access, based on the recommendations of the township road commissioners for
township roads and by the county highway engineer for any county roads.
   D.   Screening: Trucks, tractors, portable storage tanks, and trailer or
motorized agricultural implements shall be screened from view of any
agricultural residential (AR), planned residential (PR), or residential (R)
district boundary located within a five hundred foot (500') radius of the
property.
   E.   Intended Purpose: Sales shall be primarily to serve the agricultural
community. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-3: CAMPGROUNDS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
Campgrounds and RV parks may be allowed as a special use in the agricultural
(A) district, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Residential Use Prohibited: No recreational vehicle or tent shall be
used as a permanent place of residence.
   B.   Access: Site access shall be from an arterial or collector road.
   C.   Design And Operations: All facilities shall conform to the design and
operations provisions contained in chapter 11, "Recreational Vehicle Parks And
Campgrounds", of this title. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-4: CAR WASH:
Car washes may be permitted as a special use in the commercial general (CG),
commercial interchange (CI), and industrial (I) districts, subject to the
following provisions:
   A.   Enclosure Required: All mechanical equipment, excluding self- service
vacuum units, shall be enclosed within a building.
   B.   Preliminary Spraying And Drying Areas: All facilities shall be designed
and configured such that any outdoor spraying preparation or drying activities
are directed away from any abutting properties that are occupied or zoned for
residential use, or that landscape treatment shall include a fence or wall to
screen the drive-in facility from such properties.
   C.   Accommodation Of Trucks And Semitrailers: In the commercial interchange
(CI) district, washing facilities shall be designed exclusively to accommodate
semitrailers and large commercial trucks. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-5: COLLEGE/UNIVERSITY:
A college or university may be permitted as a special use in the agricultural
(A), commercial general (CG), and commercial interchange (CI) districts,
subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Campus Plan Required: The college or university shall submit a long
range campus plan for approval that indicates the planned build out of the
site.
   B.   Traffic Impact Study: This plan shall include a traffic impact study.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-6: COMMERCIAL RETAIL:
Commercial retail uses may be permitted as a special use in the industrial (I)
district, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   The use shall be either:
      1.   Collocated with a manufacturing use, selling products manufactured
on site, with only incidental sales of other related items, or
      2.   Less than five thousand (5,000) square feet and located not less
than two thousand feet (2,000') from any other commercial retail use in the I
district that is not collocated with a manufacturing use. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-2-5-7: CORRECTIONAL FACILITY:
Correctional facilities may be allowed as a special use in the industrial (I)
district subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Spacing From Residences, Schools, And Daycare Facilities: The property
lines of the protective care facility are at least one- half (1/2) mile away
from the property lines of any property that is occupied by or zoned for
residential purposes, schools, or daycare facilities.
   B.   Approval By State Regulating Authority: The design and operation of the
protective care facility has been approved by the appropriate state regulating
authority (e.g., the Illinois department of corrections).
   C.   Emergency Plan Required: The protective care facility has an emergency
plan filed with the police, emergency services, and disaster and emergency
agencies indicating that the facility has a plan ensuring against any form of
emergency to protect the adjoining properties.
   D.   Traffic Impact Study Required: A traffic impact study, prepared by
individuals or firms that perform traffic engineering and sealed by a
professional engineer shall be submitted with the application for a special use
permit. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-8: DAYCARE FACILITY:
Daycare facilities may be allowed as a special use in the agricultural (A),
planned residential (PR), and residential (R) districts subject to the
following restrictions:
   A.   Compliance With Illinois Regulations: Daycare facilities shall either
be exempt from Illinois licensing requirements (3 or fewer unrelated children)
or meet the state licensing requirements for a daycare center, daycare home, or
group daycare home.
   B.   Principal Use As Residential: The operator of the facility must live in
the building.
   C.   Number Of Children: No more than eight (8) children, excluding children
of the family providing daycare, shall be accommodated by a facility.
   D.   Location: Exempt and nonexempt facilities shall comply with the
following exterior play area and other requirements:
      1.   Play Areas:
         a.   Uses shall provide an on site, fenced, outdoor play area, which
shall have a fence beginning at ground level and extending to a minimum height
of forty two inches (42"), so as to prevent children from crawling under or
through the fence or otherwise becoming entrapped.
         b.   If the fenced outdoor play area is located within ten feet (10')
of any property line, it shall be fully screened by shrubs or other vegetation
with a minimum height equal to the fence height.
      2.   Pick Up/Drop Off: An off street pick up/drop off area shall be
provided, which may be a driveway provided it is kept free of parked vehicles
and other obstructions for such use.
      3.   Parking: One off street parking space per four (4) children shall be
reserved for on site parking during the normal hours of operation. (Ord. 10-
001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-9: DRIVE-IN/DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY:
Accessory drive-in facilities may be allowed as a special use in the commercial
general (CG), commercial interchange (CI), and industrial (I) districts subject
to the following provisions:
   A.   Noise Buffer: Where the use abuts any residential zoning district, the
ordering station shall be buffered with a wall and landscaping, in accordance
with section
8-4-4-1, "Noise", of this title, to reduce noise transmission.
   B.   Outdoor Loudspeakers: The drive-in facilities shall be designed and
configured such that the service area and outdoor loudspeakers are directed
away from any abutting properties that are occupied or zoned for residential
use. Landscape buffering shall include a fence or wall that screens the drive-
in facility from such properties. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-10: EXTRACTION:
Extraction may be permitted as a special use in the industrial (I) district
subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Compliance With Illinois Regulations: Mining operations and provisions
for reclamation shall be governed by applicable Illinois department of natural
resources and office of mines and minerals regulations as adopted and amended
from time to time.
      1.   The surface mined land conservation and reclamation act 1 .
      2.   The surface coal mining land conservation and reclamation act 2 .
   B.   Wellhead Protection Zone: Extraction uses are prohibited in wellhead
protection zones.
   C.   Spacing: Extraction uses shall not be located closer than one thousand
three hundred twenty feet (1,320') to any residential or educational occupancy
or any municipal boundary.
   D.   Hours Of Operation: Extraction uses shall restrict hours of operation
to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. weekdays and eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. to four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on Saturdays. Operations on
Sunday are prohibited.
   E.   Reclamation Plan: A reclamation plan shall be submitted providing the
following:
      1.   The ground surface shall be restored to a condition permitting one
of the following uses: agriculture, residential, recreational (see subsection
E2 of this section), or nonresidential. Either an escrow account or an annual
fee shall be required, as approved by the Grundy County state's attorney and
county board, to ensure that there are sufficient funds set aside to guarantee
the restoration.
      2.   If future recreational use is identified, management of such use
shall be established. Risks from any subsurface materials to future uses shall
be identified.
      3.   Monitoring and postclosure maintenance plans shall be submitted and
adequate funding provided.
   F.   Buffers: All buffers shall contain berms.
      1.   The buffer must be at least one hundred feet (100') inside the
property boundary and used for an agricultural use or forested.
      2.   Noise studies shall be conducted to determine the berm's exact
height based on the equipment operated at the site. The berm shall ensure the
day-night level (DNL) does not exceed fifty five (55) dBA noise levels at the
property line or any building with a line of sight to the property.
   G.   Ground And Surface Water: Different types of extraction uses have
different potential impacts on groundwater. The following standards shall be
applied to the review and approval of these uses:
      1.   The depth of natural soil and type of soil shall be reviewed. The
county may impose requirements for drainage systems, monitoring, and pumping
systems to prevent potential ground and surface water pollution.
      2.   Monitoring wells may be required.
      3.   An emergency response plan must be reviewed and approved. The county
may impose fees or require security to ensure that an adequate emergency
response fund is available. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 715/1 et seq.
2 2. 225 ILCS 720/1.01 et seq.
8-2-5-11: GARDEN CENTER:
A garden center may be allowed as a special use in the agricultural (A)
district, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Separation: The site must be located at least three hundred feet (300')
from the nearest residential district boundary.
   B.   Access: The premises shall abut and draw access from an arterial or
collector street.
   C.   Site Development Plan Review: Site development plan approval, as
specified in section
8-14-4, "Site Development Permit", of this title, is required for approval or
expansion.
   D.   Traffic Impact Study May Be Required: A traffic impact study, prepared
by individuals or firms that perform traffic engineering and sealed by a
professional engineer, may be required by the land use department. (Ord. 10-
001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-12: HEAVY RETAIL AND SERVICE:
A heavy retail establishment may be allowed as a special use in the commercial
general (CG) district, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Separation: The site must be located at least three hundred feet (300')
from the nearest residential district boundary.
   B.   Access: The premises shall abut and draw access from an arterial or
collector street.
   C.   Site Development Plan Review: Site development plan approval, as
specified in section
8-14-4, "Site Development Permit", of this title, is required for approval or
expansion.
   D.   Traffic Impact Study Required: A traffic impact study, prepared by
individuals or firms that perform traffic engineering and sealed by a
professional engineer, shall be submitted with the development application.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-13: INSTITUTIONAL RESIDENTIAL:
Institutional residential use may be allowed as a special use in the
agricultural (A), agricultural residential (AR), planned residential (PR),
residential (R), and commercial general (CG) districts subject to the following
requirements:
   A.   Access: Access to the use is provided by a street that is classified as
collector or greater in capacity.
   B.   Building Character: In the planned residential (PR) district, the
buildings are residential in character.
   C.   Fence: An opaque fence that is six feet (6') high is constructed
between the institutional residential use and abutting lot that is occupied by
or zoned to permit single-family dwellings. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-14: KENNELS:
Kennels may be allowed as a special use in the agricultural (A), commercial
general (CG), and industrial (I) districts, subject to the following
requirements:
   A.   All districts:
      1.   Individual pens shall be limited in size to a maximum of fifteen
feet (15') wide and twenty feet (20') long.
      2.   Enclosing fences shall not be higher than six feet (6').
      3.   If there is a roof enclosure, it must be of an open mesh type
material.
   B.   Agricultural (A) district: The use is permitted as a special use on a
farmstead. It may also be permitted on lots of five (5) acres or larger. Dog
runs shall be a minimum of one hundred feet (100') from residentially zoned or
residentially occupied property.
   C.   Commercial general (CG) and industrial (I) districts: No outdoor dog
runs shall be permitted on less than one acre. Dog runs shall be used only
during daylight hours and shall be a minimum of one hundred feet (100') from
residentially zoned or residentially occupied property. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-2-5-15: LANDSCAPE WASTE COMPOSTING AND ORGANIC COMPOSTING FACILITY:
Landscape waste composting and organic composting facilities that accept off
site materials may be permitted as a special use in the agricultural (A) and
industrial (I) districts subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Compliance With Illinois Regulations: Composting operations and
provisions for site design shall be governed by applicable Illinois
environmental protection agency (bureau of land) regulations: Title 35:
environmental protection, subtitle G: waste disposal, chapter I: pollution
control board, subchapter i: solid waste and special waste hauling, part 830
standards for compost facilities.
   B.   Water Supply Protection Zone: Composting uses prohibited within two
hundred feet (200') of the nearest potable water supply.
   C.   Floodplain: The composting area of the facility must be located outside
the boundary of the 100-year floodplain or the site shall be floodproofed. The
composting area of the facility must be designed to prevent any compost
material from being placed within five feet (5') of the water table, to
adequately control runoff from the site, and to collect and manage any
landscape waste leachate that is generated on the site.
   D.   Setbacks And Spacing:
      1.   The composting area of the facility must be located so as to
minimize incompatibility with the character of the surrounding area, including
at least a six hundred sixty foot (660') setback from any residential or
educational occupancy.
      2.   Composting areas shall be spaced from other districts as follows:
         a.   From agricultural residential (AR), planned residential (PR),
commercial general (CG) or residential (R) districts: Nine hundred feet (900').
         b.   From commercial interchange (CI) district: Three hundred feet
(300').
      3.   The buffer must be at least one hundred feet (100') inside the
property boundary and used for an agricultural use or forested.
      4.   The facility shall be located on a site that is a minimum of five
(5) acres in size.
   E.   Operating Conditions And Odors: The operator shall take specific
measures to control odors and other sources of nuisance:
      1.   Landscape waste must be processed within five (5) days after receipt
into windrows or other piles which promote proper conditions for composting.
      2.   The operator shall have a plan for minimizing odors and responding
to odor complaints.
      3.   A litter control plan shall be submitted to show that the operation
will prevent the blowing of any waste materials, trash, or dust particulate
matter onto adjoining property or roadways.
      4.   The composting material shall not contain any domestic sewage,
sewage sludge, or septage.
      5.   The operator shall have available for inspection a plan for the
intended purposes of end product compost and a contingency plan for handling
end product compost and composting material that does not meet the general use
compost standards.
   F.   Site Plans And Siting Review: Any pollution control facility if located
in unincorporated Grundy County needs to go through the local siting process.
This public review is performed at the county level before an Illinois
environmental protection agency permit can be approved. The county may impose
fees for this review, which are listed by the land use department. (Ord. 10-
001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-16: LIVE-WORK UNITS:
Live-work units may be permitted as a special use in the planned residential
(PR) and commercial general (CG) districts if it is demonstrated that the lot
has frontage on an arterial or collector street. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-17: MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION:
A manufactured home park or subdivision may be a special use in the
agricultural (A) district, subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Exceptions:
      1.   Farm Exception: A farm owner may apply for a special agricultural
exemption permit to allow manufactured homes to be used by seasonal farm help
on that site. To qualify for the mobile home exemption, the farm must contain
forty (40) acres for each mobile home; however, no more than two (2) mobile
homes shall be permitted on any one tract.
      2.   Construction: A landowner may apply for a temporary permit to allow
a manufactured home to be a temporary office or storage unit on the site during
the construction of a permanent residential dwelling unit. This period of
manufactured home use is not to exceed twenty four (24) months.
   B.   Manufactured Home Park Bulk And Yard Standards: Every manufactured home
park shall comply with the following requirements, in addition to all other
applicable Grundy County codes and ordinances:
      1.   Lot Area: Manufactured home parks shall be a minimum of ten (10)
acres and a maximum of twenty (20) acres in lot area.
      2.   Lot Width: Manufactured home parks shall have a minimum lot width of
six hundred sixty feet (660'), and shall maintain a minimum lot width of six
hundred sixty feet (660') throughout the entire depth of the park. All
manufactured home parks shall front on a county road, state or federal highway.
      3.   Yards:
Figure 8-2-5-17, "Manufactured Home Park Yards", of this section, illustrates
the different configurations for required manufactured home park yards.
Manufactured home park yard requirements are as follows:
         a.   Front yard: Eighty feet (80').
         b.   Side yard adjoining a street: Eighty feet (80').
         c.   Interior side yard: Forty feet (40').
         d.   Rear yard: Forty feet (40').
FIGURE 8-2-5-17

MANUFACTURED HOME PARK YARDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1638.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1640.gif]
      4.   Yard Landscaping: All required yards must be landscaped in
accordance with section
8-9-1, "General Requirements", of this title. No encroachments are permitted in
any manufactured home park yard, and no part of any manufactured home site may
be located within required yards.
      5.   Open Space: A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of a manufactured home
park's total area shall be maintained as community open space and recreational
areas for park residents.
         a.   Permitted types of community open space and recreational areas
include, but are not limited to:
            (1)   Swimming pools.
            (2)   Tennis courts.
            (3)   Recreational open space accessory buildings.
            (4)   Jogging trails and fitness courses.
            (5)   Playgrounds.
            (6)   Natural water features, wetlands and conservation areas.
            (7)   Detention areas which are accessible to occupants or the
public via nature trails, boardwalks, and/or perimeter walkways, but only if
they are designed as wetlands or natural water features and are landscaped with
native vegetation.
         b.   The following are not considered part of community open space and
cannot be used to fulfill the twenty percent (20%) requirement:
            (1)   Required manufactured home park yards and manufactured home
site yards.
            (2)   Interior streets, sidewalks or other public rights of way.
            (3)   Driveways, parking lots, and loading and storage areas.
      6.   Number Of Manufactured Home Sites: Each manufactured home park shall
be limited to a maximum of one hundred (100) manufactured home sites.
      7.   Separation Requirement: No manufactured home park shall be located
within ten (10) miles of another manufactured home park. The distance between
any two (2) manufactured home parks shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to intervening structures, from the property lines of each
manufactured home park.
   C.   Manufactured Home Site Bulk And Yard Standards: Every manufactured home
site within a manufactured home park shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   Site Area: Each manufactured home site shall comply with the site
area requirements shown in
table 8-2-5-17, "Site Area And Site Width Dimensions For Manufactured Home
Sites", of this section.
      2.   Site Width: Each manufactured home site shall comply with the site
width requirements shown in
table 8-2-5-17, "Site Area And Site Width Dimensions For Manufactured Home
Sites", of this section.
TABLE 8-2-5-17
SITE AREA AND SITE WIDTH DIMENSIONS FOR MANUFACTURED HOME SITES
 
                                  Minimum Site Area Minimum Site
                                  (Square Feet)     Width (Feet)
Single manufactured home site     7,200             50
Doublewide manufactured home site 10,800            75
Triplewide manufactured home site 12,240            85
 
      3.   Height And Roof Form:
         a.   No manufactured home unit shall exceed a height of twenty feet
(20'), as measured to the peak of the roof. No other principal structures
within a manufactured home park shall exceed twenty five feet (25') in height,
as measured to the peak of the roof. Structures accessory to individual
manufactured home units, shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height, as
measured to the peak of the roof.
         b.   Each manufactured home unit shall utilize roofing materials
consisting of asphalt shingles (or an equivalent material of comparable
quality), similar in color, material and appearance to the roofing used on
other single-family dwellings in the vicinity. The roof design of all
manufactured home units shall utilize a full height roof element with a minimum
pitch of three to twelve (3:12) (commonly referred to as a 3/12 pitched roof).
      4.   Yards: All manufactured home sites shall have the following minimum
front, side and rear yards:
         a.   Front yard: Twenty feet (20').
         b.   Side yard adjoining a street: Seven and one-half feet (71/2').
         c.   Interior side yard: Seven and one-half feet (71/2').
         d.   Rear yard: Twenty feet (20').
FIGURE 8-2-5-17B
MANUFACTURED HOME SITE YARDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1642.gif]
      5.   Location: All manufactured home sites shall front on a street,
interior to the manufactured home park, improved to the standards set forth in
subsection I1, "Interior Streets", of this section.
      6.   Use Of Sites: No more than one manufactured home unit shall occupy
any designated and staked manufactured home site. Mobile homes are not
permitted to occupy any manufactured home site, except that existing mobile
homes found in preexisting manufactured home parks, are permitted as legal
nonconforming uses.
      7.   Designation Of Manufactured Home Sites: The corners of each
manufactured home site shall be clearly marked on the ground by permanent flush
stakes, markers or similar means approved by the zoning officer or designee.
   D.   Manufactured Home Site Installation Standards:
      1.   Pads: Each manufactured home site shall have two (2) concrete pads
for a manufactured home unit to be set upon. Each pad shall be at least two
feet (2') in width. The distance between the centerlines of each pad shall be
at least four and one-half feet (41/2').
      2.   Skirting: All manufactured home units shall be skirted with a rigid
material. Such skirting must be in place within thirty (30) days after the
manufactured home unit is installed on the manufactured home site. Skirting
shall be ventilated in order to ensure proper airflow under the home. Skirting
material shall be weatherproof and fire resistant. Skirting shall be provided
with doors to permit access to sewer, water and gas connections.
      3.   Walkways: A concrete walkway shall be provided from the doorway of
each manufactured home unit to the required driveway and shall be at least four
feet (4') in width.
      4.   Electricity: Electrical service delivering one hundred (100) ampere
service of not less than one hundred ten (110) volts shall be required for each
individual manufactured home site. The installation shall comply with all state
and local electrical codes and ordinances.
   E.   Accessory Buildings, Structures, And Uses:
      1.   Accessory structures are prohibited within the required front or
side yards of any manufactured home site.
      2.   Accessory buildings, such as storage sheds, shall not exceed a total
of one hundred fifty (150) square feet. Accessory buildings are permitted to
encroach into the required rear yard, provided they are located no closer than
ten feet (10') from any manufactured home site boundary line within the rear
yard.
      3.   Detached garages shall not exceed a total of four hundred eighty
four (484) square feet. Garages are permitted to encroach into the required
rear yard, provided they are located no closer than ten feet (10') from any
manufactured home site boundary line within the rear yard.
      4.   Carports shall be used only for parking no more than two (2)
vehicles and not for any other purpose, including storage. Carports shall have
a minimum height of seven feet (7') and a maximum width of twenty feet (20').
      5.   Porches and decks may encroach into the required rear yard, provided
they are located no closer than ten feet (10') from any manufactured home site
boundary line within the rear yard.
      6.   Accessory buildings and structures shall not exceed fifteen feet
(15') in height, as measured to the peak of the roof. However, in no case shall
a carport be higher than the lowest part of the roof of the manufactured home
unit, as installed, to which the carport is accessory.
      7.   Any home occupations conducted within accessory buildings and
structures, or within the manufactured home, shall comply with the regulations
of section
8-2-3-5, "Home Occupation", of this chapter.
   F.   Landscaping Requirements:
      1.   Landscaping The Required Yards Of Manufactured Home Parks:
Landscaping of the required yards of manufactured home parks, as illustrated in
figure 8-2-5-17C, "Manufactured Home Park Required Yard Landscaping", of this
section, shall meet the following standards:
         a.   In every required yard, there shall be a minimum of one tree for
every three hundred (300) square feet. One-third (1/3) of all trees shall be
evergreens a minimum of six feet (6') in height at planting, one-third (1/3) of
all trees shall be shade trees a minimum of two inches (2") in caliper at
planting, and one-third (1/3) of all trees shall be ornamental trees a minimum
of two inches (2") in caliper at planting.
         b.   Shrubs shall be planted at a rate of one shrub for every three
(3) linear feet.
         c.   To achieve effective screening, landscape materials shall be
planted in a naturalistic and staggered fashion.
         d.   Areas not planted with trees shall be maintained as turf or other
ground cover.
         e.   A berm, with a maximum slope of four feet (4') in length to each
one foot (1') in height (also referred to as 4:1 proportion), shall be provided
in the required yards and shall be fully landscaped in accordance with
subsections F1a through F1d of this section. Berms shall have a rounded top
surface that is a minimum of five feet (5') in width.
            (1)   Required front and corner side yards: Eight foot (8') berm.
            (2)   Required rear and interior side yards: Three foot (3') berm.
Required berming is illustrated in
figure 8-2-5-17D, "Required Berming", of this section.
         f.   In rear and interior side yards, a six foot (6') solid fence is
required. Such fence shall be located a minimum of five feet (5') from the
property line.
FIGURE 8-2-5-17C
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK REQUIRED YARD LANDSCAPING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1700.gif]
FIGURE 8-2-5-17D
REQUIRED BERMING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1702.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1704.gif]
      2.   Landscape Plan: A landscape plan shall be submitted as part of a
manufactured home park development application, as required in subsection J,
"Manufactured Home Park Development Application", of this section.
      3.   Maintenance Of Landscaping: Any diseased, dead or damaged plants
within the required manufactured home park yards or common open space areas
must be removed and replaced as indicated in section
8-9-10, "Installation, Maintenance, And Replacement", of this title.
   G.   Off Street Parking And Driveways:
      1.   Required Parking: Each manufactured home site shall provide two (2)
off street parking spaces within the site.
      2.   Visitor Parking Lots:
         a.   A visitor parking lot shall be located within no more than three
hundred feet (300') of each manufactured home site within the manufactured home
park.
         b.   The total number of visitor parking spaces provided within the
park shall be equal to three-tenths (3/10) parking space per manufactured home
site.
         c.   The perimeter of visitor parking lots shall be screened with
compact hedging or decorative masonry, or a combination of these, to a maximum
height of two and one-half feet (21/2').
      3.   Driveways: Driveways shall not be considered interior streets, as
described in subsection I1, "Interior Streets", of this section, and as
illustrated in
figure 8-2-5-17E, "Driveways And Interior Streets", of this section.
Manufactured home site driveways shall comply with the following:
         a.   The maximum width of manufactured home site driveways shall be
twenty feet (20').
         b.   Driveways shall not be located within the required side yards.
Driveways shall be separated a minimum of three feet (3') from the manufactured
home unit, as measured from the edge of the driveway.
         c.   All driveways and off street parking areas shall be paved, and
graded to drain rapidly and be free of standing water.
FIGURE 8-2-5-17E
DRIVEWAYS AND INTERIOR STREETS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1706.gif]
   H.   Signs:
      1.   Manufactured Home Park Sign: Manufactured home parks shall be
limited to one freestanding monument identification sign. Such sign shall not
exceed four feet (4') in height and thirty two (32) square feet in sign area,
and shall be located at least twenty feet (20') from any manufactured home
site. Only uplighting, where light is directed from the ground onto the sign
face, is permitted to illuminate the sign.
      2.   Site Identification Numbers: A manufactured home park shall maintain
signs on each manufactured home site that identify the site number. Site
numbers shall be four inches (4") in height and shall remain readily
identifiable while the site is in use. No site identification sign may exceed
five inches (5") in height and ten inches (10") in width.
   I.   Public Improvements:
      1.   Interior Streets:
         a.   Interior streets within a manufactured home park shall be
designed in accordance with chapter 6, "Subdivisions And Land Development", and
section
8-6-3-4, "Streets, Roadways, And Paths", of this title, in addition to all
other applicable Grundy County codes and ordinances. The interior streets of
the manufactured home park shall be considered (general) high intensity
"residential subcollectors" for the purposes of said section
8-6-3-4, "Streets, Roadways, And Paths", of this title. Curbing is required on
all interior streets. Shoulders and drainage swales are not permitted.
         b.   All interior streets shall be properly lit, in accordance with
the requirements of subsection
8-6-3-4P, "Street Lighting", of this title, except that the maximum height of
light poles, as measured from grade at the base to the bottom of the luminaire,
shall not exceed twenty feet (20').
         c.   Interior streets shall be serviced and maintained by the owners
of the manufactured home park. No officer, agent or employee of the county
shall, at any time, service or maintain, or offer or agree to service or
maintain, any interior road or any part thereof.
         d.   In section
8-17-1-2 of this title, the residential subcollector category, contains
subcategories for roads with one sided, two (2) sided and off street parking.
There are also standards for an unnamed, i.e., general - high intensity
residential subcollector. This "general" category applies to the interior
streets of manufactured home parks.
      2.   Stormwater Management: Stormwater drainage and detention system
shall be provided in accordance with section
8-4-5 of this title, in addition to all other applicable Grundy County codes
and ordinances.
      3.   Sewer System: Sewage disposal shall be provided in accordance with
section
8-6-3-6, "Sewage Collection And Disposal", of this title, in addition to all
other applicable Grundy County codes and ordinances. Septic tanks and oxidation
lagoons shall not be permitted within manufactured home parks. In addition,
each sewer connection to a manufactured home site that is unoccupied shall be
closed until the site is occupied.
      4.   Water Supply: A water supply system shall be provided in accordance
with section
8-6-3-7, "Water Systems", of this title, in addition to all other applicable
Grundy County codes and ordinances.
      5.   Public Utilities: Public utilities shall be provided in accordance
with sections
8-6-3-8, "Public Utilities", and
8-6-3-9, "Easements", of this title, in addition to all other applicable Grundy
County Codes and ordinances. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
   J.   Manufactured Home Park Development Application:
      1.   Required: Prior to the construction, expansion and/or alteration of
any new or existing manufactured home park, the manufactured home park
developer shall make application to, and receive approval from, the Grundy
County Board in accordance with the requirements and procedures of this
subsection.
      2.   Procedure:
         a.   Preapplication Conference: Prior to submittal of an application
to develop a manufactured home park, the developer shall meet with the Zoning
Board of Appeals to discuss the scope and nature of the proposed development.
At the preapplication conference, the applicant shall provide information as to
the location of the proposed manufactured home park development, the proposed
public improvements, a list of any anticipated exceptions to County ordinances,
and any other information necessary to clearly explain the manufactured home
park development. The purpose of such preapplication conference is to make
advice and assistance available to the applicant before preparation of the
application.
         b.   Application Submittal: Following the preapplication conference,
the application to develop a manufactured home park shall be submitted to the
Zoning Officer. The application shall be in accordance with the requirements of
subsection J3, "Application Requirements", of this section. The Zoning Officer
shall forward copies of the application to the Zoning Board of Appeals for
their report and recommendation, as well as other applicable administrative
officials.
         c.   Zoning Board Of Appeals Recommendation: In making its
recommendation, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be guided by, and give
consideration to, the following:
            (1)   The proposed development is in conformance with the Grundy
County comprehensive plan, this title and the requirements of the MHP District.
            (2)   The proposed development will have a character of sustained
desirability and stability.
            (3)   The proposed development will be in harmony with its
surroundings.
            (4)   The proposed development will not cause undue congestion on
local streets or thoroughfares. The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend
approval or denial of the application, including any special uses. If the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall fail to act within sixty (60) working days after
receipt of the application, the application shall be deemed to be recommended
for approval.
         d.   Zoning Board Of Appeals Recommendation: The Zoning Board of
Appeals may recommend to the County Board approval, approval with conditions or
denial of any special uses that are part of the application including, but not
limited to, approval of accessory structures and uses, and community sewer and
water systems, as set forth in chapter 15, "Enforcement, Interpretation, And
Severability", of this title.
         e.   Approval By County Board: Upon receipt of a recommendation from
the Zoning Board of Appeals, the Grundy County Board may approve, approve with
conditions or deny approval of the development, including any special use
permits. (Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
      3.   Application Requirements: In order to develop a manufactured home
park, the applicant shall file with the Land Use Department an application that
includes the following:
         a.   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants, or the
names and addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership or the
names and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation.
         b.   The address, location and legal description of the tract of land
upon which it is proposed to construct a manufactured home park.
         c.   The name of the proposed manufactured home park.
         d.   The proposed number of manufactured home sites.
         e.   A site plan of the proposed manufactured home park, which must
include the following:
            (1)   All manufactured home sites shall be clearly delineated, and
each shall include site dimensions and square footage, and building envelope
information. Building elevations for existing and proposed buildings and
facilities, or any alterations to existing buildings and facilities, must be
shown.
            (2)   The location of all required visitor parking lots.
            (3)   All streets, sidewalks and driveways.
            (4)   All signage for the manufactured home park, including
manufactured home site numbering, street signs and directional signage.
            (5)   All public improvements and amenities, including community
facilities and required open space.
            (6)   North arrow, drawing scale, signature and seal of an Illinois
registered engineer or architect, and date of preparation.
         f.   A landscape plan shall be submitted with each application, and is
subject to approval by the land use department. A landscape plan must include
the following:
            (1)   The location, quantity, size and name, both botanical and
common, of all existing plant material on the lot, and indicating which plant
material will be retained and which will be removed. The landscape plan should
include provisions to preserve existing trees in accordance with section
8-9-11, "Preservation Of Trees And Other Vegetation", of this title.
            (2)   The location, quantity, size and name, both botanical and
common, of all proposed plant material including, but not limited to, shade and
evergreen trees, shrubs, ground cover and turf, drawn at a size equal to three-
fourths (3/4) maturity.
            (3)   The existing and proposed grading of the site indicating
contours at one foot (1') intervals. Proposed berming shall be indicated using
one foot (1') contour intervals.
            (4)   Elevation drawings indicating the materials used for all
proposed fences.
            (5)   Installation and maintenance specifications as required by
the land use department.
            (6)   North arrow, drawing scale, signature and seal of an Illinois
registered landscape architect, and date of preparation.
            (7)   In the event that it can be demonstrated that existing
vegetation meets the intent of the landscaping requirements of this section, it
may be credited toward the required landscape materials, as determined by the
land use department.
         g.   A traffic impact analysis is required if the proposed
manufactured home park has fifty (50) or more manufactured home sites or, if
additional sites are proposed to be added to an existing park, when the total
number of manufactured home sites meets or exceeds fifty (50) sites. Such
traffic impact analysis shall be conducted by an Illinois registered engineer
and shall include the following:
            (1)   A description of the development site, proposed land use and
intensity, and the area of influence of site traffic.
            (2)   Existing conditions of perimeter streets and intersections,
including traffic counts and capacity and level of service analysis.
            (3)   Analysis of future conditions in trip generation at peak
periods and for twenty four (24) hours.
            (4)   Proposed driveway locations, geometries, sight distances and
turn restrictions.
            (5)   Impact on adjoining street network.
      4.   Alterations: Any alterations to existing manufactured home parks,
excluding normal maintenance, shall require a new application.
      5.   Appeal: Any person denied approval of his/her manufactured home park
development shall have the right to appeal such decision before the circuit
court of the 13th judicial court, Grundy County, Illinois.
      6.   Records: When an application for a manufactured home park
development has been approved, land use department shall retain the original
and keep a file thereof. One copy shall be returned to the applicant, or his/
her agent, and one copy shall be delivered to county clerk.
   K.   Manufactured Home Park License Requirements:
      1.   General Requirements:
         a.   No person, firm or corporation shall establish, maintain, conduct
or operate a manufactured home park without first obtaining a license from the
land use department.
         b.   A license to operate a manufactured home park shall be issued for
one year and shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on April 30 of
each year. The license may be renewed from year to year upon payment of an
annual license fee in accordance with subsection K1c of this section. Licenses
issued hereunder apply only to the premises described in the application and in
the license. Only one location may be described in the license. A license which
has been issued for a particular premises may not be moved to any other
premises.
         c.   In addition to the application fees, the licensee shall pay to
the land use department, on or before April 30 of each year, a nonrefundable
annual license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) plus three dollars ($3.00) for
each manufactured home site in the park. The land use department shall deposit
all funds received with the county treasurer.
         d.   All licenses to operate a manufactured home park shall be
prominently displayed in the manufactured home park office.
      2.   Revocation Of License: Any license granted hereunder shall be
subject to revocation or suspension by the land use department. The zoning
officer shall first serve, or cause to be served, upon the licensee, a written
notice which shall specify the way or ways in which such licensee has failed to
comply with this title. Said notice shall require the licensee to remove or
abate such nuisance, unsanitary or objectionable condition, specified in such
notice, within five (5) days, unless a longer period of time is allowed by the
zoning officer. If the licensee fails to comply with the terms and conditions
of said notice, the land use department may revoke or suspend such license.
      3.   Records: When a license to operate and maintain a manufactured home
park has been approved, the land use department shall retain the original and
keep a file thereof. One copy shall be returned to the applicant, or his/her
agent, and one copy shall be delivered to county clerk.
      4.   Management Responsibilities: The following manufactured home park
management provisions are applicable to all manufactured home parks licensed
within Grundy County:
         a.   Every park shall be managed by a responsible party on duty twenty
four (24) hours per day and seven (7) days per week whose name, address and
telephone number shall be on file at all times with the land use department and
Grundy County sheriff. The duties of this responsible party shall be to
maintain the park, and its facilities and equipment, in a clean, orderly and
sanitary condition, and shall be responsible, in addition to the licensee, for
any violation of this title.
         b.   Each manufactured home park shall have a manager's office where
each manufactured home shall be assigned its manufactured home site, issued a
copy of the manufactured home park's rules and registered. A register shall be
maintained by the manager and shall include:
            (1)   The name and address of the owner of each manufactured home
unit.
            (2)   The name and address of each occupant of such unit.
            (3)   The license number and state of issuance, for such unit.
            (4)   The date of entry of such unit into the park. The register
shall be signed by the owner or occupant of the manufactured home.
         c.   Any person furnishing misinformation for purposes of registration
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Registration records shall be kept for
seven (7) years after the manufactured home unit has left the manufactured home
park. The register shall be available for inspection upon request by all law
enforcement officers.
         d.   The land use department shall keep a record of all manufactured
home parks. These records shall show the names and addresses of all
manufactured home parks, names and addresses of the manufactured home park
licensees, number of manufactured home sites in each park, source of water
supply, system of sewage and garbage disposal, and any other information
desired by the land use department.
      5.   Required School District Registration: The following provisions are
applicable to all manufactured home parks licensed within Grundy County:
         a.   It shall be the duty of each licensee to file with the school
board(s) of the school district(s) where the manufactured home park is located,
within the first five (5) business days of February and of September of each
year, a report that contains the names and ages of all school age children who
reside in the manufactured home park.
         b.   The governing body of the school district in which such
manufactured home park is located, by and through its officers, attendance
officers and proper employees, may visit and inspect a manufactured home park
for the purpose of enforcing the attendance of school children who reside in
the park. When a manufactured home park is located in more than one school
district, the school boards of the school districts, acting jointly, are
authorized to visit and inspect a manufactured home park for the purpose of
enforcing the attendance of school children who reside in the park.
   L.   Nonconforming Manufactured Home Parks:
      1.   Manufactured home parks established prior to the effective date of
the MHP district shall be considered legal nonconforming manufactured home
parks and shall continue to be governed by all standards in effect at the time
they were approved.
      2.   The replacement of manufactured homes in legal nonconforming
manufactured home parks shall be governed by the standards in effect when the
manufactured home parks were approved. However, no manufactured home or mobile
home shall be replaced by a "mobile home", as defined in this title.
      3.   Expansion of a legal nonconforming manufactured home park shall only
be allowed when such expansion also includes substantial improvements in the
existing manufactured home park to such a degree that the existing park,
including the expanded area, complies with the provisions of the MHP district.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-18: MINISTORAGE UNITS:
Commercial ministorage units may be allowed as a special use in the commercial
general (CG) district, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Permitted Activities: Within a miniwarehouse facility, no business
activity other than the rental of storage units shall be conducted. The
operation of such facility shall be for storage space only and shall in no way
be deemed to include a transfer or storage business.
   B.   Lot Size:
      1.   Miniwarehouse lot size shall not exceed five (5) acres.
      2.   At least four thousand (4,000) square feet of storage space is
required for each ministorage development or phase of development.
   C.   Outdoor Storage:
      1.   Outdoor or open storage of operable vehicles, recreational vehicles,
and licensed trailers is permitted at a minimum distance of twenty feet (20')
from buildings.
      2.   Outdoor or open storage of any type shall not be permitted in the
street (front) yard.
      3.   Outdoor or open storage shall require a three foot (3') landscaped
berm on all sides of the property. This requirement is in addition to any other
landscaping requirements.
   D.   Interior Driveways: All interior driveways shall have a minimum width
of thirty feet (30') between wood frame buildings or twenty four feet (24')
between masonry buildings. In all cases, driveway width shall be sufficient to
provide adequate access for fire apparatus in accordance with the local fire
district's requirements.
   E.   Landscaping:
      1.   Landscaping of not less than three feet (3') in width shall be
provided and maintained along street frontage except for entrance and exit
driveways.
      2.   All areas not covered by buildings or pavement shall be landscaped.
      3.   Landscaping standards shall be twice the required amount for
ministorage so that the landscaping appears dense and nearly opaque. The
minimum amount of landscaping shall be equivalent to one hundred sixty (160)
landscaping points.
   F.   Fencing: A minimum six foot (6') solid fence along the rear and side
property lines is required when a miniwarehouse facility abuts any lot in the
AR, PR, or R district or is used for residential purposes.
   G.   Lighting: Exterior lighting shall be shielded to direct the light onto
the use established and away from adjacent properties, in accordance with
section
8-8-3, "Exterior Lighting Standards", of this title.
   H.   Paving: All driveways, parking, loading, and vehicle circulation areas
shall be paved with concrete or asphalt. Compacted gravel may be substituted in
low traffic volume portions of the development.
   I.   Prohibited Materials: The following shall not be stored in individual
warehouse units:
      1.   Flammable or combustible liquids;
      2.   Welding and cutting calcium carbides and acetylene;
      3.   Compressed gas and LPG;
      4.   Explosive and blasting agents;
      5.   Fireworks;
      6.   Hazardous chemicals;
      7.   Corrosive liquids and poisonous gases; and
      8.   Toxic materials.
   J.   Electrical Service:
      1.   Electrical service to individual units shall consist only of
lighting and switches.
      2.   Specifically forbidden are electrical outlets within the storage
units. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-19: MIXED USE:
Mixed use developments may be allowed as a special use in the commercial
general (CG) district, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Use Type:
      1.   Other uses may include commercial lodging, commercial retail,
office, restaurant, services, and places of assembly.
      2.   Any other use permitted in the district is also permitted as one of
the floor types.
   B.   Use Standards: The following standards apply to mixed uses:
      1.   Minimum Residential: At least thirty percent (30%) of the total
floor area shall be devoted to residential use.
      2.   Recreation Space: Each residential unit shall have seventy five (75)
square feet of public or private outdoor recreation or activity space in the
form of balconies, rooftop areas, or ground level space such as a plaza that is
designed for the use and enjoyment of the residents.
      3.   Parking: Parking shall be reduced to the maximum parking needed for
the composite uses in the peak parking hour.
      4.   Multiple Building Mixed Uses: Where there are more than four (4)
buildings, not all buildings shall be required to have residential use, nor
shall all buildings be required to accommodate mixed use, provided the
following are met:
         a.   At least sixty five percent (65%) of the buildings shall
accommodate residential use at full project build out.
         b.   Residential uses must be included in the first building
constructed.
         c.   If any building is to be solely residential or nonresidential,
the county shall require its phasing to ensure that the project meets the
desired mix if it is not completely built as originally approved.
         d.   Institutional uses may be housed by single use buildings, unless
their primary use is an office function.
         e.   Such complexes shall have a unified site plan, which shall
include a pedestrian oriented circulation plan that is a key element in the
overall site plan. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-20: OUTDOOR CARGO CONTAINER STORAGE AND HANDLING FACILITIES:
Outdoor cargo container storage and handling facilities may be allowed in the
industrial (I) district as a special use, subject to the following
restrictions:
   A.   Minimum Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Lot Size: The minimum size of property required for
establishment of such facility shall be twenty (20) acres.
      2.   Stacking Prohibited:
         a.   No stacking of cargo containers is permitted.
         b.   All cargo containers must be at ground level.
         c.   Empty chassis shall not be stacked more than five (5) units high.
      3.   Minimum Setback:
         a.   The minimum setback from all property lines shall be one hundred
feet (100').
         b.   No storage of a cargo container or chassis shall be closer than
one thousand feet (1,000') from any property zoned or used for residential land
uses.
      4.   Screening: Screening is required for storage of cargo containers
including, but not limited to:
         a.   Opaque fencing and shrubbery at least every three feet (3')
around the perimeter of the property.
         b.   The minimum height of the fence shall be eight feet (8').
      5.   Storage Restrictions: Cargo containers shall not be used for:
         a.   Refrigeration.
         b.   Residential use of any kind.
         c.   Storage or housing of animals.
      6.   Container Repair And Integrity:
         a.   Any cargo container stored or kept on property shall be safe,
structurally sound, stable, and in good repair.
         b.   Any cargo container that becomes unsound, unstable, or otherwise
dangerous shall be immediately repaired or removed from the property where
kept.
         c.   Any cargo container stored or kept in violation of the unified
development ordinance shall be deemed a dangerous condition and a public
nuisance and may be immediately removed by the county.
         d.   Any cost or expense associated with the removal of the violating
cargo containers is the responsibility of the property owner. All associated
costs including, but not limited to, legal fees and court cost, shall
constitute a debt due and owed to the county and shall be recordable as a lien
upon the land of the cargo container storage facility and/or property owner.
      7.   Number Of Containers: The special use permit shall be issued for a
specific maximum number of cargo containers.
   B.   Additional Requirements: When approving the special use permit, the
county board may impose additional standards on outdoor cargo container storage
and handling facilities. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-21: PARKING (STAND ALONE LOT) AND TRANSIT FACILITIES:
Commercial parking and transit terminal facilities may be permitted as a
special use in the commercial interchange (CI) and industrial (I) districts
subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Surfacing: A commercial or commuter parking lot shall have asphalt or
concrete paving for all surfaces used for vehicle parking.
   B.   Access: Entrance and exit for all parking and passenger or commuter
drop off shall be from a collector or arterial street. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-22: PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY:
The standards of this section are intended to ensure land use compatibility,
protect the integrity of neighborhoods, and preserve community character, while
allowing uses that serve the community to locate near and among residential
uses. Places of public assembly may be allowed as a special use in the
Agricultural (A), Agricultural Residential (AR), Planned Residential (PR), and
Residential (R) Districts subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Location: The place of public assembly complies with the provisions of
section
8-3-4-2, "Nonresidential Scale And Design Regulations", of this title, and is
located on the classification of roadway that is required for the scale of the
use.
   B.   Minimum Lot Size: Places of public assembly shall have a minimum site
area:
      1.   For places of public assembly in the Planned Residential (PR) or
Residential (R) Districts, four (4) times the minimum lot size is required for
that district.
      2.   For the Agricultural (A) and Agricultural Residential (AR)
Districts, the following minimum site areas:
         a.   School: Five (5) acres.
         b.   Places of worship, libraries, museums: Three (3) acres.
         c.   Childcare centers: One acre.
   C.   Additional Requirements: Based on the recommendations of the Zoning
Board of Appeals, and Land Use Committee, the County Board may impose
additional standards on places of public assembly that:
      1.   Ensure appropriateness of scale,
      2.   Maintain consistency in the community character in which the use is
situated, or
      3.   Mitigate impacts on the transportation system and public service
requirements. (Ord. 2018-12, 6-12-2018)
8-2-5-23: PRIVATE AIRSTRIP:
Private airstrips may be allowed as a special use in the Agricultural (A)
District subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Safety Aviation Rules: The safety restrictions on the airstrip are in
accordance with the State of Illinois.
   B.   Ownership: A special use approval shall run with the ownership of the
parcel, and it shall be recorded as such.
   C.   Fly-Ins: The owner is limited to two (2) events per year. Each fly-in
is limited to fifteen (15) planes per event.
   D.   Natural Conditions: Natural conditions are to be preserved, which
permits only grass strips. No towers are permitted. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-24: PRIVATE CLUB:
Private clubs may be allowed as a special use in the Agricultural (A),
Agricultural Residential (AR), Planned Residential (PR), and Residential (R)
Districts subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Building Character: The building in which the use is located:
      1.   Has the character of a residential building, and
      2.   Has a floor area that is not greater than 1.5 times the floor area
of the largest dwelling that is located on the same street face.
   B.   Street Access: The use shall be accessed by a public street that is
classified as a collector or greater capacity, or within three hundred feet
(300') of an intersection with a road that is classified as a collector or
greater capacity. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-25: PRIVATE PIPELINES:
Natural gas and petroleum pipelines located on agricultural properties or
properties with sensitive areas including, but not limited to, wetlands, steep
slopes, woodlands, or floodplains may be subject to the following special use
standards in order to minimize construction impacts:
   A.   Entrance And Exit To Property: Prior to the pipeline's installation,
the applicant and landowners/tenants shall reach an acceptable agreement on the
route that will be used for entering and exiting the right of way and other
construction areas. The affected property owners/tenants shall be notified of
the project intent and approximate scheduling of the construction.
   B.   Location: All pipelines greater than ten inches (10") in diameter that
transport flammable or hazardous material shall be located a minimum of five
hundred feet (500') from any occupied principal structure.
   C.   Land Cover: Except for aboveground piping facilities, the pipeline
shall be buried with:
      1.   A minimum of five feet (5') of top cover where it crosses
agricultural land that has been determined as having prime soils.
      2.   A minimum of three feet (3') of top cover where it crosses
agricultural land that has been determined as having nonprime soils.
      3.   A minimum of three feet (3') of top cover where it crosses
properties having the protected resource categories listed in section
8-4-2-1, "Protected Resources", of this title.
      4.   Substantially the same top cover as an existing parallel pipeline,
but not less than three feet (3'), where an existing pipeline is within one
hundred feet (100') perpendicular to the new pipeline.
   D.   Replacement Of Topsoil:
      1.   Existing topsoil depths shall be restored.
      2.   Replacement shall be undertaken in a manner as to minimize settling
and the mixing of topsoil with subsoil materials. In no instance shall the
topsoil materials be used for any other purpose.
      3.   As the topsoil is replaced, all rocks greater than three inches (3")
in dimension shall be removed.
   E.   Restoration Of Ground Cover And Field Tiles:
      1.   All conservation practices such as terraces or grassed waterways
that are damaged by the pipeline's construction shall be restored to their
preconstruction condition. Vegetation in sensitive areas shall be restored to
their preconstruction state.
      2.   All existing field tiles shall be identified before construction and
repaired or replaced at the conclusion of construction. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-2-5-26: RECREATION, INDOOR:
Indoor recreation may be allowed as a special use in the agricultural (A) and
residential (R) districts, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Limited Access Or Membership: In the agricultural (A) district, access
to the use is limited to residents of the development or neighborhood in which
it is located and their invitees.
   B.   Use Compatibility: The use is:
      1.   Located at least one hundred feet (100') from any residential
building;
      2.   Constructed of sound resistant materials; or
      3.   Limited in operation such that it is closed between ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-27: RECREATION, OUTDOOR:
Outdoor recreation may be allowed as a special use in the agricultural (A),
planned residential (PR), and residential (R) districts, subject to the
following provisions:
   A.   The premises shall be closed between nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M.; or
   B.   Portions of the use, such as an athletic field, that are open later
than nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. shall be located at least three hundred feet
(300') from any property that is used for residential purposes. (Ord. 10-001,
1-12-2010)
8-2-5-28: SALVAGE ACTIVITIES:
Salvage activities may be allowed as a special use in the industrial (I)
district, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Recycling Collection Facilities:
      1.   Allowed only in the industrial (I) district.
      2.   Shall use containers that are constructed and maintained with
durable waterproof and rustproof material, covered when site is not attended,
secured from scavenging, and shall be of a capacity sufficient to accommodate
materials collected and a collection schedule.
      3.   All materials shall be stored in containers or in a mobile unit
vehicle when the attendant is not present.
      4.   If located within one thousand feet (1,000') of a lot in the
agricultural residential (AR), planned residential (PR) or residential (R)
districts, any power driven collection facility shall not operate between seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   B.   Automotive Salvage Rebuilder Or Automotive Salvage Recycler: Automotive
salvage rebuilders and automotive salvage recyclers shall be:
      1.   Allowed only in the industrial (I) district.
      2.   Licensed and operated pursuant to 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 95/
junkyard act.
      3.   Surrounded by a landscape buffer 1.5 times the requirements of
chapter 9, "Landscaping And Tree Protection", of this title.
      4.   Configured so that inoperable vehicles are not visible from public
rights of way.
      5.   Spaced from other districts as follows:
         a.   From the agricultural residential (AR), planned residential (PR)
or residential (R) districts: Three hundred feet (300').
         b.   From commercial general (CG) or commercial interchange (CI)
districts: One hundred feet (100').
   C.   Processing Facilities:
      1.   Allowed only in the industrial (I) district.
      2.   All power driven processing must meet all performance standards in
section
8-4-4, "General Environmental Standards", of this title and shall not operate
between seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
      3.   All outside storage of materials shall be in sturdy containers or
enclosures which are covered, secured, and maintained in good condition, or
shall be baled or palletized.
      4.   No storage, excluding trucks, shall be visible above the height of
the buffer area if located within one hundred feet (100') of properties in the
agricultural residential (AR), planned residential (PR) or residential (R)
districts.
   D.   Prohibited Practices:
      1.   No hazardous waste or materials shall be accepted or deposited at
any recycling or salvage facility, except as permitted by county, state and
federal law.
      2.   No person shall discard or deposit waste or recyclable materials
onto the ground at or on property adjacent to a transfer site or transfer
station. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-29: SINGLE-FAMILY CLUSTER:
Single-family cluster developments having an open space ratio at or above
twenty five percent (25%) may be allowed as a special use in the planned
residential (PR) district, subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Open Space Requirements: Open space at or above twenty five percent
(25%) should be shown on the master plan and shall be contiguous open space,
excluding required yards and buffer areas and shall not consist of narrow
strips of land around the perimeter of the site which do not meet the intent of
this UDO. The county may require interconnected open space on adjacent
conservation subdivisions to encourage biodiversity by maximizing habitat size
and minimizing edge effects. Such open space may be separated by the road(s)
constructed within the cluster subdivision.
The required open space shall be used for conservation, agriculture,
horticulture, forestry, or for a combination of these uses, and shall be served
by suitable access for such purposes. Underground utilities to serve the
cluster development site may be located within the required open space.
   B.   Open Space And Ownership: The required open space shall, at the owner's
election, be conveyed to a corporation or trust owned jointly or in common by
the owners of lots within the cluster subdivision. If such corporation or trust
is utilized, ownership thereof shall pass with conveyance of the lots in
perpetuity. Maintenance of the open space and facilities shall be permanently
guaranteed by such corporation or trust, which shall provide for mandatory
assessments for maintenance expenses to each lot. Each such trust or
corporation shall be deemed to have assented to allow the County to perform
maintenance of the open space and facilities, if the trust or corporation fails
to provide adequate maintenance, and shall grant the County easement for this
purpose. In such event, the County shall first provide fourteen (14) days'
written notice to the trust or corporation as to the inadequate maintenance,
and, if the trust or corporation fails to complete such maintenance, the County
may perform it. The owner of each lot shall be deemed to have assented to the
County placing and recording a lien against each lot in the development for the
full cost of such maintenance, which liens shall be released upon payment to
the County of same. Each individual deed, and the deed or trust or articles of
incorporation, shall include provisions designed to effect these provisions.
Documents creating such trust or corporation shall be submitted to the Land Use
Department for approval, and shall thereafter be recorded in the registry of
deeds.
   C.   Enforceability: Any proposed open space shall be subject to a recorded
restriction, providing that such land shall be perpetually kept in an open
state, that it shall be preserved for exclusively agricultural, horticultural,
or recreational purposes, and that it shall be maintained in a manner which
will ensure its suitability for its intended purposes.
   D.   Stream Buffer: The minimum stream buffer open area is one hundred feet
(100') to act as a filter strip. This area may count towards the twenty five
percent (25%) open space ratio requirement.
   E.   Transportation Study: Any cluster development with a planned build out
of more than twenty five (25) dwelling units shall submit a traffic study as a
part of its application; this study must be approved by the County Board. (Ord.
10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-5-30: COMMERCIAL SOLAR AND WIND ENERGY FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide regulations for the
permitting of commercial solar and wind energy facilities as special uses for A
Agricultural and I Industrial Zoning Districts._According to Public Act 102-
1123, the petition for special use shall be heard by the Zoning Board of
Appeals within forty-five (45) days and be sent for final decision to the
County Board within thirty (30) days from the recommendation by the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
   B.   Definitions:
 
COMMERCIAL      As defined in IL Section 10-720 of the Property Tax Code. Commercial solar
SOLAR ENERGY    Energy Facility does not mean a utility- scale solar energy facility being
FACILITY        constructed at a site that was eligible to participate in a procurement event
(CSEF):         conducted by the Illinois Power Agency pursuant to subsection (c-5) of Section
                1-75 of the Illinois Power Agency Act.
COMMERCIAL WIND A wind energy conversion facility of equal to or greater than 500 kW in total
ENERGY FACILITY nameplate generating capacity. Includes a wind energy conversion facility
(CWEF):         seeking an extension of a permit to construct granted by the county before the
                effective date of the Public Act 102-1123.
                A.   A person with a direct ownership interest in a commercial wind energy
                facility or a commercial solar energy facility, or both, regardless of whether
                the person is involved in acquiring the necessary rights, permits, and approvals
FACILITY OWNER: or otherwise planning for the construction and operation of the facility; and
                B.   At the time the facility is being developed, a person who is acting as a
                developer of the facility, by acquiring the necessary rights, permits, and
                approvals or by planning for the construction operation of the facility,
                regardless of whether the person will own or operate the facility.
NONPARTICIPATIN Real property that is not a participating property.
G PROPERTY:
                A residence that is located on nonparticipating property and that is existing
NONPARTICIPATIN and occupied on the date that an application for a permit to develop the
G RESIDENCE:    commercial wind energy facility or the commercial solar energy facility is filed
                with the county.
                Any one or more or the following buildings that is existing and occupied on the
OCCUPIED        date that the application for a permit to develop the commercial wind energy
COMMUNITY       facility or the commercial solar energy facility is filed with the county: a
BUILDING:       school, place of worship, day care facility, public library, or community
                center.
 
 
              Real property that is the subject of a written agreement between the facility
              owner and the owner of the real property that provides the facility owner an
              easement, option, lease, or license to use the real property for the purpose of
PARTICIPATING constructing a commercial wind energy facility, a commercial solar energy
PROPERTY:     facility, or supporting facilities. Participating property also includes real
              property that is owned by a facility owner for the purpose of constructing a
              commercial wind energy facility, a commercial solar energy facility, or
              supporting facilities.
              A residence that is located on participating property and that is existing and
PARTICIPATING occupied on the date that an application for a permit to develop the commercial
RESIDENCE:    wind energy facility or the commercial solar energy facility is filed with the
              county.
              Real property that is:
PROTECTED     A.   Subject to a permanent conservation right consistent with the Real Property
LANDS:        Conservation Rights Act; registered or
              B.   Designated as a nature preserve, buffer, or land and water reserve under
              the Illinois Natural Areas Preservation Act.
              Transmission lines, substations, access roads, meteorological towers, storage
SUPPORTING    containers, and equipment associated with the generation and storage of
FACILITIES:   electricity by the commercial wind energy facility or commercial solar energy
              facility.
WIND TOWER:   Includes the wind turbine tower, nacelle, and blades.
 
   C.   Filing Requirements for A Special Use of A Solar Energy or Wind Energy
Facility: Submittal packets for a special use for the construction of either a
commercial solar or wind energy facility shall contain the following:
      1.   Application: The applicant for special use shall file twenty-five
(25) copies of application, including ten (10) full size copies of exhibits and
fifteen (15) reduced copies of all exhibits, with the Land Use Department of
the County, together with the appropriate site review application fee. The
applicant is to provide up to ten (10) additional copies of the application to
the County upon request.
      2.   Land Use Department: The Land Use Department of the County, upon
receiving said application, shall do the following:
         a.   Accept for filing, and date stamp as filing, any application that
is filed. The date stamp of the Land Use Department should be considered the
official filing date for all time limit purposes. Receipt and acceptance of an
application by the department is proforma and does not constitute an
acknowledgment that the applicant has complied with the County ordinances.
         b.   The Land Use Department shall make available a copy of the
application and the public record concerning the application for public
inspection during the normal business hours of the department. Additionally,
the department shall provide any person requesting copies of the application or
the public record, upon payment by such persons for the actual cost of
reproduction in accordance with the County FOIA requirements.
      3.   Form of Applications:
         a.   All applications shall be in writing on paper of eight and one-
half inches by eleven inches {'{'}8½" x 11"), eight and one- half inches by
fourteen inches (8½" x 14"{'}'}, or eleven inches by seventeen inches (11" x
17").
         b.   The pages of the application shall be consecutively numbered, and
all exhibits clearly marked and identified.
         c.   The text portion of the application (not including exhibits or
graphic presentations) shall be in an electronic format. The exhibits or
graphic representations may also be in electronic format.
   D.   Content Of the Application: Every application shall include the
following information and documentation:
      1.   Evidence of Physical Control: The applicant shall provide evidence
of the physical control of the site to be developed. Acceptable evidence shall
include a redacted lease agreement, contract to purchase, or deed as proof of
ownership.
      2.   Applicant Information: The applicant shall describe itself, its
legal standing as to whether it is a corporation, limited liability company,
individual, or other legal entity and shall identify its officers and
directors, shareholders, and members. It should also identify its parent and
subsidiary companies. The same information shall be provided for all owners and
operators of the facility. In addition, the applicant shall identify the
property owners that have entered into leases or agreements with the applicant
and proof must be included that the applicant has the legal authority to bring
this application in the name of such property owners.
      3.   Project Description : The applicant shall provide a general
description of the project, which includes the following:
         a.   General description of the project including its total generating
capacity affected area.
         b.   Site plan detailing the placement of the solar arrays and
proposed access.
         c.   Equipment detail that outlines basic construction, electrical
lines, and substation location.
         d.   Fencing and landscaping location and description proposed for
buffering and maintenance plan.
         e.   The total height
      4.   Site Plan:
         a.   All proposed setback dimensions.
         b.   All proposed structures on the property, including, but not
limited to, solar collectors, substations, wind turbine towers, transformers,
and service roads.
         c.   Topographic site information for the subject property and the
adjacent properties within a quarter mile of the property line of the subject
property indicating contours in five-foot (5') intervals.
         d.   Existing structures on subject property and properties within a
quarter mile of the property.
         e.   All existing and proposed underground and aboveground utilities.
         f.   All rights-of-way, wetlands, wooded areas, and public
conservation lands.
         g.   Ingress and egress from the site as proposed during construction
and thereafter, which indicates:
            (1)   Proposed road surface and cover.
            (2)   Width and length of access route and location of ingress.
         h.   Certified easements, contracts, waivers, and option agreements
for proposed use of the land.
         j.   Revegetation or reclamation plan of the areas that will be
disturbed.
         j.   Description of hours of operation for construction and
maintenance of the facility, numbers of employees and type of traffic expected
to be generated from the site.
         k.   Public road routes.
      4.   Wind Tower Setbacks: The following setbacks shall be complied with
for wind towers of a commercial wind energy facility:
Location: Setback Distance:
Location:                            Setback Distance:
                                     2.1 times the maximum blade tip height
Occupied Community Building          of the wind tower to the nearest point
                                     on the nearest point on the outside wall
                                     of the structure.
                                     1.1 times the maximum blade tip height
Participating Residences             of the wind tower to the nearest point
                                     on the nearest point on the outside wall
                                     of the structure.
                                     2.1 times the maximum blade tip height
Nonparticipating residences          of the wind tower to the nearest point
                                     on the nearest point on the outside wall
                                     of the structure.
Boundary Lines of Participating      None
Property
                                     1.1 times the maximum blade tip height
Boundary Lines of Nonparticipating   of the wind tower to the nearest point
Property                             on the property line of the
                                     nonparticipating property.
                                     1.1 times the maximum blade tip height
Public Roads Rights of Way           of the wind tower to the center point of
                                     public road right of way.
Overhead Communication and Electric
Transmission and Distribution        1.1 times the maximum blade tip height
Facilities                           of the wind tower to the nearest edge of
(Not including overhead way, utility the nearest edge of the property line,
service lines to individual homes or easement or right of way
accessory buildings)
Overhead Utility Services Lines to   None
Individual Houses or Outbuildings
Fish and Wildlife Areas and Illinois 2.1 times the macimum blade tip height
Nature Preserve Commission Protected of the wind tower to the nearest point
Lands                                on the property line of the protected
                                     lands.
 
      5.   Environmental Impact: The applicant shall comply with all local,
State, and Federal environmental regulations. The applicant shall provide
information showing that the agricultural impact mitigation agreement has been
entered into with the Department of Agricultural prior to the Zoning Board of
Appeals meeting. The application shall provide an environmental impact analysis
which will include how the project will take measures to minimize, eliminate or
mitigate adverse impacts identified in the analysis. Applicants must arrange
for the completion of a Natural Resource Inventory through the Grundy County
Soil and Water Conservation District and provide that to the Land Use
Department for review with the LESA scoring system. A formal consultation with
the Illinois Department of Natural Resource Ecological Compliance Assessment
shall be completed and provided as part of the formal submittal for the special
use.
      6.   Warning Signage: Signs warning of the high voltage associated with
the solar farm shall be posted at every entrance to the facility, at the base
of all pad mounted transformers and substations. A sign that provides emergency
contact information, such as phone numbers, shall be posted near the tower and
the operations and maintenance building.
      7.   Fencing: Perimeter fencing having a maximum height of eight feet {'
{'}8') shall be installed around the boundary of the solar farm. The fence
shall contain appropriate warning signage that is posted such that it is
clearly visible on the site.
      8.   Vegetation Control: A vegetation and weed control plan shall be
provided that protects against the creation of a prey habitat and/or aesthetic
impacts to the surrounding area.
      9.   Maintenance; Inspections: The maintenance of the solar farm grounds,
plantings, and fencing shall be inspected monthly by the Land Use Department to
ensure compliance. If compliance is not met, the applicant shall be notified to
bring the site into compliance.
      10.   Electrical Components: All electrical components of the U-SWECS
shall conform to all applicable local utility standards and adopted National
Electrical Code.
      11.   Shadow Flicker: The applicant shall conduct an analysis on the
potential shadow flicker of the CWEF onto nonparticipating properties. The
analysis shall identify the locations of shadow flicker that may be caused by
the project and the expected durations of the flicker at these locations from
sunrise to sunset over the course of a year. Any occupied community buildings
or nonparticipating residence shall not experience more than thirty (30) hours
per year of shadow flicker under planned operating conditions.
      12.   Landscaping: Applicant shall minimize the disruption of natural
environment, retain existing vegetation and native plant species to the maximum
extent feasible and replant with native vegetation if existing vegetation is
disturbed during construction. Landscaping shall comply with the requirements
set forth in the AIMA regulations and maintained.
      13.   Federal and State Requirement Compliance: The U-SWECS shall meet or
exceed any standards and regulations of the FAA and any other agency of the
state or federal government with the authority to regulate U-SWECS.
      14.   Power Lines: All electrical control wiring and power lines shall be
wireless or not aboveground except where wind farm collector wiring is brought
together for connection to the transmission or distribution network.
      15.   Access Roads: The applicant shall minimize the number and width of
access roads, minimize cut and fill on sloping terrain and use natural terrain
where feasible for these access points.
      16.   Roads: All routes on either county or township roads that will be
used for the construction and maintenance purposes shall be identified on the
site plan. All routes for either egress or ingress need to be shown. The
routing shall be approved subject to the approval of the Grundy County highway
engineer in coordination with the township road commissioners. The developer
shall provide and complete a preconstruction baseline survey to determine
existing road conditions for assessing potential future damage due to
development related traffic. The developer applicant shall provide a road
repair plan to ameliorate all damage, installation or replacement of roads that
might be required by the developer. The developer applicant shall provide a
letter of credit or a surety bond in an amount and form approved by the
highway/roadway official(s).
      17.   Sound Pressure Level: The sound pressure level generated by a U-
SWECS shall comply with all Illinois pollution control board (hereafter
referred to as IPCB) noise regulations.
      18.   Safety/Climb Prevention: All CWEF shall be designed to prevent
unauthorized access to electrical and mechanical components or access to the
towers, fields, and electrical on the site. All towers shall not be climbable
from the ground to fifteen feet (15') aboveground and all access doors to
towers and equipment shall be lockable.
      19.   Waste Disposal: All solid waste generated from supplies, equipment,
parts, packaging, or operation of the facility shall be removed from the site
immediately and disposed of in an appropriate manner. Any hazardous waste that
is generated by the facility, including, but not limited to, lubricating
materials, shall be removed consistent with all local, state, and federal rules
and regulations.
   F.   Decommissioning Or Abandonment of The Commercial Wind or Solar Energy
Facility: Prior to receiving a special use of the facility, the operator/owner
shall provide the decommissioning plan as approved by the Department of
Agriculture in accordance with the current Standard Wind Farm AIMA template
81818 or standard solar AIMA version 9.19.19.
   G.   Liability Insurance: The owner or operator of the solar farm shall
maintain a current general liability policy covering bodily injury and property
damage and name Grundy County as an additional insured with limits of at least
two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) per occurrence and five million dollars
($5,000,000.00) in the aggregate with a deductible of no more than five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
   H.   Administration And Enforcement: The County Zoning Officer shall enforce
the provisions of this section through an inspection of the solar farm every
year. The Zoning Officer is hereby granted the power and authority to enter the
premises of the solar farm at any time by coordinating a reasonable time with
the operator/owner of the facility. Any person, firm or corporation who
violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply with, or resists
enforcement of any of the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each component of the solar farm shall be
the subject of a separate violation and further each week that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. Other actions may be
taken by law or in equity to prevent or to remedy any violation of this section
and these remedies shall be in addition to any other remedies, damages, or
penalties. (Ord. 2018-001, 1-9-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-005, 5-9-2023)
8-2-5-31: VEHICLE SALES, RENTAL, AND SERVICE:
Vehicle sales, rental, and service may be allowed as a special use in the
commercial general (CG) and industrial (I) districts, subject to the following
provisions:
   A.   Use Of Right Of Way Prohibited: No vehicles shall be parked on the
public right of way. Violating vehicles will be removed by the county without
notice at the owner's expense and shall constitute a zoning violation.
   B.   Appearance: Vehicle sales, rental, and service establishments are
permitted if it is demonstrated that:
      1.   Repair bays do not front an adjacent public right of way or toward
land that is zoned for residential use.
      2.   No more than one elevated vehicle display platform is used, and the
display raises the vehicle no more than three feet (3') off the ground.
      3.   Accessory uses and structures, such as car wash facilities and their
incidental functions (vacuums and air compressors) are set back a minimum
distance of fifty feet (50') from any residentially zoned or used property.
      4.   No existing buildings shall be reused for vehicle sales, rental, and
service unless:
         a.   All lighting is brought into compliance with chapter 8, "Off
Street Parking And Loading; Access Management; Exterior Lighting", of this
title.
         b.   All outdoor vehicle display areas/lots are screened in accordance
with chapter 9, "Landscaping And Tree Protection", of this title. (Ord. 10-001,
1-12-2010; amd. Ord. 2012-015, 4-10-2012)
8-2-5-32: VETERINARY PRACTICE:
Veterinary clinics/hospitals may be allowed as a special use in the commercial
general (CG) and industrial (I) districts, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   CG district:
      1.   No large animal veterinary clinics shall be located in the CG
district.
      2.   A minimum of one acre is required if there are to be outside runs.
      3.   No outside runs shall be located within one hundred feet (100') of
residentially zoned or occupied property.
      4.   For uses where all operations and activities are conducted within a
fully enclosed building:
         a.   The building shall be designed and constructed with noise
resistant materials (plans and specifications for noise reduction materials
shall be approved by the director through the site development approval process
or, if an existing building is to be used, through the building permitting
process).
         b.   The minimum lot size shall be five thousand (5,000) square feet
in a shopping center or ten thousand (10,000) square feet for freestanding
buildings.
   B.   I district:
      1.   A minimum of one acre is required if there are to be outside runs.
      2.   A minimum of three (3) acres of land area are required for large
animal veterinary clinics.
      3.   Runs or paddocks shall be used only during daylight hours and shall
be set back a minimum of one hundred feet (100') from residentially zoned or
used property. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010; amd. Ord. 2012-015, 4-10-2012)
8-2-5-33: UTILITIES, COMMUNITY:
Community utilities may be allowed as a special use in the agricultural (A),
agricultural residential (AR), planned residential (PR), residential (R), and
commercial interchange (CI) districts subject to the following standards:
   A.   Buffer: The facility shall be surrounded by a landscape buffer 1.5
times the requirements of chapter 9, "Landscaping And Tree Protection", of this
title.
   B.   Design Compatibility: In the PR and R districts, the design of the
community utilities shall be compatible with the residential environment.
Masonry walls, rather than fences, shall be used to screen the facility. The
street faces shall be improved to provide continuation of the sidewalk areas,
with landscaping designed to make the utility a part of the commercial area.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010; amd. Ord. 2012-015, 4-10-2012)
8-2-5-34: UTILITY SCALE WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (U-SWECS):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide regulations for the
permitting of utility scale wind energy conversion systems (U-SWECS) for the
purpose of preserving and protecting natural resources such as forests,
tributaries, and habitat; provide restrictions for the development of the U-
SWECS to ensure the quality of life for adjacent property owners, aesthetic
qualities of the county and to prevent detriment to the public health, safety
and welfare.
   B.   Filing Of U-SWECS Special Use Application Packet: The packet shall
include the following information:
      1.   Number Of Copies: The applicant for a U-SWECS special use shall file
twenty five (25) copies of application, including ten (10) full size copies of
exhibits and fifteen (15) reduced copies of all exhibits, with the land use
department of the county, together with the appropriate site review application
fee. The applicant is to provide up to ten (10) additional copies of the
application to the county upon request.
      2.   Land Use Department Action: The land use department of the county,
upon receiving said application, shall do the following:
         a.   Accept for filing, and date stamp as filing, any application that
is filed. The date stamp of the land use department should be considered the
official filing date for all time limit purposes. Receipt and acceptance of an
application by the department is pro forma, and does not constitute an
acknowledgment that the applicant has complied with the county ordinances.
         b.   The land use department shall make available a copy of the
application and public record concerning the application for public inspection
during the normal business hours of the department. Additionally, the
department shall provide to any person so requesting, copies of the application
or the public record, upon payment by such persons for the actual cost of
reproduction.
      3.   Form Of Applications:
         a.   All applications shall be in writing on paper of eight and one-
half inches by eleven inches (81/2" x 11"), eight and one- half inches by
fourteen inches (81/2" x 14"), or eleven inches by seventeen inches (11" x
17").
         b.   The pages of the application shall be consecutively numbered, and
all exhibits clearly marked and identified.
         c.   The text portion of the application (not including exhibits or
graphic presentations) shall be furnished in an electronic format. The exhibits
or graphic representations may also be furnished in electronic format.
   C.   Content Of U-SWECS Special Use Application: Every U-SWECS application
shall include the following information and documentation:
      1.   Host Agreement: An executed host agreement must be appended to, and
included as part of, any U-SWECS special use application filed with the county.
      2.   Applicant Information: The applicant shall describe itself, its
legal standing as to whether it is a corporation, limited liability company,
individual, or other legal entity and shall identify its officers and
directors, shareholders, and members. It shall also identify its parent and
subsidiary companies. The same information shall be provided for all owners and
operators of the U-SWECS system. In addition, the applicant shall identify the
property owners that have entered into leases or agreements with the applicant
and proof must be included that the applicant has the legal authority to bring
this application in the name of such property owners.
      3.   Project Description: The applicant shall provide a general
description of the project, including its total approximate nameplate
generating capacity; the equipment manufacturer, the type and model of U-SWECS
proposed, the number of U-SWECS, the nameplate generating capacity of each U-
SWECS, the proposed height of each U-SWECS tower and the diameter of each U-
SWECS rotor.
      4.   Site Plan:
         a.   All proposed setback dimensions.
         b.   All proposed structures on the property, including, but not
limited to, U-SWECS towers, substations, and service roads.
         c.   Topographic site information for the subject property and the
adjacent properties within a quarter mile of the property line of the subject
property indicating contours in five foot (5') intervals.
         d.   Existing structures on subject property and properties within a
quarter mile of the property.
         e.   All existing and proposed underground and aboveground utilities.
         f.   All rights of way, wetlands, wooded areas, and public
conservation lands.
         g.   Ingress and egress from the site as proposed during construction
and thereafter, which indicates:
            (1)   Proposed road surface and cover.
            (2)   Dust control.
            (3)   Width and length of access route and location of ingress.
            (4)   Road maintenance progress or schedule for proposed use of
land.
         h.   Certified easements, contracts, waivers, and option agreements
for proposed use of the land.
         i.   Notice by registered mail or certified mail to residents and
residential microwave users within a two (2) mile radius of the subject
property informing them of the proposed U-SWECS.
         j.   Utility interconnection details and a copy of written
notification to the utility company requesting the proposed interconnection.
         k.   Fire protection plan for the construction and the operation of
the facility.
         l.   Revegetation plan of the areas that will be disturbed.
         m.   Drainage plan and erosion control plan.
         n.   Description of hours of operation for construction and
maintenance of the facility, numbers of employees and type of traffic expected
to be generated from the site.
         o.   Public road routes.
   D.   Design And Installation Requirements:
      1.   Height: The total height of a U-SWECS tower with blade or a
meteorological tower used in conjunction with the U-SWECS shall not exceed four
hundred feet zero inches (400'0") unless specifically allowed by the Grundy
County board. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010; amd. Ord. 2012-015, 4-10-2012)
      2.   Setbacks: The setback of the towers shall not be less than the
following:
         a.   Lot lines: 1.1 times the total height of the structure.
         b.   Pipelines and public rights of way: 1.1 times the total height of
the structure.
         c.   Public roads: 1.1 times the total height of the structure.
         d.   Power or communication transmission line above or below ground:
1.1 times the total height of the structure.
         e.   Inhabited structures of participating properties: Seven hundred
fifty feet (750') of any occupied dwelling, commercial business, school,
church, hospital, or retail business when such building is occupied or used by
humans on average of at least ten (10) hours per week, unless written
permission is granted from the owner of such occupied structure for a lesser
setback.
         f.   High water mark of navigable waterways: One thousand feet
(1,000').
         g.   Public parks: One thousand eight hundred feet (1,800').
         h.   Driveway/access easements: One thousand feet (1,000').
         i.   Highways: 1.1 times the total height of the structure.
         j.   Public conservation lands: One thousand feet (1,000').
         k.   Nonparticipating inhabited structures: Inhabited structures on
adjacent lands have a setback of one thousand feet (1,000'). Occupied
residential and commercial buildings including, but not limited to, occupied
dwellings, schools, churches, hospitals, retail buildings, and commercial
buildings have a setback of one thousand eight hundred feet (1,800').
         l.   Any waiver of any setback requirement shall only be considered an
effective compliance with this subsection if said waiver runs with the land and
is recorded as part of the chain of title and the deed of the subject property.
         m.   Private air strips and restricted landing areas: Three thousand
feet (3,000') from either side of a restricted landing area or five thousand
feet (5,000') from the landing approach or departure surface end of the runway.
(Ord. 2011-016, 10-11-2011; amd. Ord. 2012-015, 4-10-2012)
      3.   Color, Finish, And Appearance: The tower and the blades of the U-
SWECS shall be nonreflective and white or gray or another nonreflective
unobtrusive color that will aid in blending the system to the environment. The
finish of the tower and the blades shall be matte and nonreflective. Blades may
be colored black for deicing purposes. The towers and blades shall be uniform
in style and color and direction of blade rotation. Any on site buildings shall
be designed such that they are unobtrusive to minimize the industrial character
of the project. All colors, finishes and design shall conform to all applicable
FAA requirements. Except for required warnings, no lettering, company insignia,
advertising or graphics shall be on any part of the tower, hub or the blades.
      4.   Blade Clearance: The vertical distance from the grade to the tip of
the wind turbine blade when the blade is at its lowest point must be at least
thirty five feet (35').
      5.   Lighting: If the towers are required by the FAA to be lit, the
lights shall meet the FAA requirements at the lowest intensity allowed. No
glare shall extend beyond the boundaries of the U-SWECS. Red strobe lights,
which are timed to activate at intervals in unison, are preferred for nighttime
illumination to reduce impacts on migrating birds. The applicant shall seek
leave from the FAA to utilize the least intrusive lighting possible.
      6.   Controls And Brakes: All U-SWECS shall be equipped with manual and
automatic controls and mechanical brakes to limit rotation of the blades to a
speed below the design limits of the U-SWECS. A professional engineer or
authorized factory representative must certify that the rotor and overspeed
control design and fabrication conform to good engineering practices. No
changes or alterations from the certified design shall be permitted unless
accompanied by a professional engineer's or authorized factory representative's
statement or certification and approved by the company.
      7.   Electrical Components: All electrical components of the U-SWECS
shall conform to all applicable local utility standards and national electric
codes. All electrical wires and lines connecting each U-SWECS to other U-SWECS
shall be installed underground.
      8.   Shadow Flicker: The applicant shall conduct an analysis on the
potential shadow flicker onto nonparticipating properties. The analysis shall
identify the locations of shadow flicker that may be caused by the project and
the expected durations of the flicker at these locations from sunrise to sunset
over the course of a year. The analysis shall include measures to eliminate or
mitigate these problems if a habitable residence is impacted by the shadow
flicker on a nonparticipating property.
      9.   Environmental Impact: The applicant shall have a third party,
qualified professional conduct an analysis to identify and assess any potential
impacts on the natural environment including wetlands and other fragile
ecosystems, historical or cultural sites and antiquities. The applicant shall
take appropriate measures to minimize, eliminate or mitigate adverse impacts
identified in the analysis. The applicant shall identify and evaluate the
significance of any effects or concerns that will remain after mitigation
efforts.
      10.   Avian And Wildlife Impact: The applicant shall have a third party,
qualified professional conduct an analysis to identify and assess any potential
impacts on wildlife and endangered species. The applicant shall take the
appropriate measures to minimize, eliminate or mitigate adverse impacts
identified in the analysis. The applicant shall identify and evaluate the
significance of any net effects or concerns that will remain after mitigation
efforts.
      11.   Warning Signage: Signs warning of the high voltage associated with
the U-SWECS shall be posted at every entrance to the facility, at the base of
all pad mounted transformers and substations. Visible, reflective, colored
objects such as flags, reflectors or tape shall be placed on the anchor points
of guywires and along the guywires up to a height of not less than eight feet
(8') from the ground. A sign that provides emergency contact information, such
as phone number, shall be posted near the tower and the operations and
maintenance building.
      12.   Landscaping: Applicant shall minimize the disruption of natural
environment, retain existing vegetation and native plant species to the maximum
extent feasible and replant with native vegetation if existing vegetation is
disturbed during construction. Landscaping shall be used as part of screening
from adjacent properties or public view. All landscaping shall comply with the
requirements set forth in chapter 9, "Landscaping And Tree Protection", of this
title.
      13.   Federal And State Requirement Compliance: The U-SWECS shall meet or
exceed any standards and regulations of the FAA and any other agency of the
state or federal government with the authority to regulate U-SWECS.
      14.   Power Lines: All electrical control wiring and power lines shall be
wireless or not aboveground except where wind farm collector wiring is brought
together for connection to the transmission or distribution network, adjacent
to that network.
      15.   Access Roads: The applicant shall minimize the number and width of
access roads, minimize cut and fill on sloping terrain and use natural terrain
where feasible for these access points.
      16.   Roads: All routes on either county or township roads that will be
used for the construction and maintenance purposes shall be identified on the
site plan. All routes for either egress or ingress need to be shown. The
routing shall be approved subject to the approval of the Grundy County highway
engineer in coordination with the township road commissioners. The developer
shall provide and complete a preconstruction baseline survey to determine
existing road conditions for assessing potential future damage due to
development related traffic. The developer applicant shall provide a road
repair plan to ameliorate any and all damage, installation or replacement of
roads that might be required by the developer. The developer applicant shall
provide a letter of credit or a surety bond in an amount and form approved by
the highway/roadway official(s).
      17.   Sound Pressure Level: The sound pressure level generated by a U-
SWECS shall comply with all Illinois pollution control board (hereafter
referred to as IPCB) noise regulations and in no event shall a U-SWECS exceed
fifty five (55) dB at any point on adjacent properties. A modeling analysis of
the proposed site shall be done and included in the application predicting the
sound pressure in accordance with IEC 61400 and ISO 7613. To demonstrate
compliance with the IPCB regulatory limits the modeling must perform its
analysis from the noise emitting property to the property line of the
neighboring property lines. After the U-SWECS is completed and operational, a
third party shall complete a sound pressure analysis of the existing
conditions. This analysis shall be completed and returned to the Grundy County
land use office within sixty (60) days. The applicant must immediately cease
any violation of the IPCB regulations unless said violation is excused and
waived by the affected landowners and occupants.
      18.   Property Value Protection Plan: The U-SWECS application shall
include a plan to protect the property values of any nonparticipating real
property owner within two (2) miles of a U-SWECS tower or substation.
      19.   Complaint Resolution: The applicant shall develop a process to
resolve any complaints that may arise from neighboring property owners during
the construction and operation of the U-SWECS. The process may use an
independent mediator or arbitrator and shall include a time limit for acting on
a complaint that is received. The process shall not preclude the local
government from acting on a complaint. The applicant shall provide to the
nearby residents a phone number of the project manager during the construction
of the facility if a problem should arise.
      20.   Safety/Climb Prevention: All U-SWECS shall be designed to prevent
unauthorized access to electrical and mechanical components or access to the
towers on the site. All towers shall not be climbable from the ground to
fifteen feet (15') aboveground and all access doors to towers and equipment
shall be lockable.
      21.   Waste Disposal: All solid waste generated from supplies, equipment,
parts, packaging or operation of the facility shall be removed from the site
immediately and disposed of in an appropriate manner. Any hazardous waste that
is generated by the facility, including, but not limited to, lubricating
materials, shall be removed consistent with all local, state and federal rules
and regulations.
      22.   Signal And Electromagnetic Interference: U-SWECS shall not be
installed in any location where its proximity to existing fixed broadcast,
retransmission or reception antennas for radio, television or wireless phone or
other personal communication systems would produce electromagnetic interference
with signal transmission or reception unless the applicant provided a
replacement signal to the affected party that will restore reception to at
least the level present before operation of the wind energy system. U-SWECS
shall not be installed in any location within the line of sight of an existing
microwave communications link where operation of the wind energy system is
likely to produce electromagnetic interference in the link's operation unless
the interference is insignificant. Any complaints that are received after the
operation of the U-SWECS shall require that the owner or operator take
reasonable steps to address the issue. In order to prevent potential issues in
the future, the applicant shall contact all communication tower operators
within five (5) miles of the proposed U-SWECS to address any potential
conflicts.
      23.   Drainage: The plan shall state that any damage to waterways,
drainage ditches, field tiles or any other infrastructures caused by the
construction or maintenance of the U-SWECS shall be completely repaired to near
original condition and so as not to impede the natural flow of water. All
repairs shall be completed within a reasonable amount of time. The U-SWECS
owner is to notify the county engineer that the construction of any part of the
project encounters any underground field drainage tiles. A plan sufficient to
provide remediation shall be submitted, reviewed and subject to the approval of
the county engineer. All existing drainage tiles that will be crossed by
private access roads shall be removed and replaced with load resistant tiles as
specified by the county engineer. This shall be done before the private access
roads are used for construction purposes. The load resistant tiles shall extend
a minimum of thirty feet (30') across the private access roads and shall be of
the same diameter of the existing tiles. To ensure that all drainage tiles are
located, reasonable measures shall be made to locate all existing tiles in the
vicinity of the private access roads by exploratory trench or other appropriate
methods. All drainage tiles that are encountered during construction shall be
noted on the site plan. Financial assurances in the form of cash or an escrow
account, surety bond or a letter of credit in a form and amount acceptable to
the county engineer shall be posted to assure compliance with this section.
      24.   Conformance To Industry And Code Standards/Engineer Certification:
The U-SWECS shall comply with all applicable local and county codes for the
electrical, mechanical and structural components of the facility. All documents
provided for review shall be stamped and signed by a professional engineer.
      25.   Operation And Maintenance: Each applicant or successor in interest
shall have the facility inspected annually by third party qualified wind power
professionals at their own expense. The third party qualified wind power
professional shall be subject to the approval of the Grundy County land use
department. Within fifteen (15) days of the inspection a copy of all reports
shall be provided to the Grundy County land use department. The U-SWECS shall
not operate unless a certificate is provided to the Grundy County land use
department indicating that the annual maintenance has been completed and the
facility is in good working condition. Failure to provide this annual
certification may cause the revocation of the special use as issued by Grundy
County.
   E.   Decommissioning Or Abandonment Of The U-SWECS: Prior to receiving a
special use of the U-SWECS, the operator/owner shall provide for a
decommissioning plan for the anticipated service life of the facility or in the
event that the facility is abandoned or has reached its life expectancy. If the
U-SWECS is out of service or not producing electrical energy for a period of
nine (9) months, it will be deemed nonoperational and decommissioning and
removal of that facility will need to commence according to the decommissioning
plan provided and approved. The decommissioning plan shall have the following
information provided:
      1.   Removal of the following within two hundred seventy (270) days:
         a.   All wind turbines, aboveground improvements and outside storage.
         b.   Foundations, pads and underground electrical wires and reclaim
the site to a depth of four feet (4') below the surface of the ground.
         c.   Hazardous material from the property and dispose of in accordance
with federal and state law.
         d.   A cost estimate for the decommissioning of the facility shall be
prepared by a professional engineer or contractor who has expertise in the
removal of U-SWECS. The decommissioning cost estimate shall explicitly detail
the cost before considering any projected salvage value of the out of service
U-SWECS. The decommissioning cost shall be made by cash, surety bond or
irrevocable letter of credit before any construction commences.
         e.   A restoration plan shall be provided for the site.
   F.   Liability Insurance: The owner or operator of the U-SWECS shall
maintain a current general liability policy covering bodily injury and property
damage and name Grundy County as an additional insured with limits of at least
two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) per occurrence and five million dollars
($5,000,000.00) in the aggregate with a deductible of no more than five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
   G.   Administration And Enforcement: The land use department shall enforce
the provisions of this section through an inspection of the U-SWECS facility
every year. The land use department is hereby granted the power and authority
to enter upon the premises of the U-SWECS at any time by coordinating a
reasonable time with the operator/owner of the facility. Any person, firm or
corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply with, or
resists enforcement of any of the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each tower, nacelle, or any
other component of the U-SWECS shall be the subject of a separate violation and
further each week that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. Other actions may be taken by law or in equity to prevent or
to remedy any violation of this section and these remedies shall be in addition
to any other remedies, damages or penalties. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010; amd. Ord.
2012-015, 4-10-2012)
8-2-5-35: MEDICAL CANNABIS:
   A.   Cultivation Center: Medical cannabis cultivation centers are allowed as
special uses only in industrial zoning districts and meeting all of the
following regulations:
      1.   Registration: Registration proof from the state of Illinois
department of agriculture to perform the function to provide medical cannabis
to registered medical cannabis dispensing organization.
      2.   Minimum Distance From Specific Uses: Medical cannabis cultivation
centers shall be a minimum of two thousand five hundred feet (2,500') from the
property line of a preexisting public or private preschool, elementary or
secondary school, daycare center, daycare home, group daycare home, part day
childcare facility, or any zoning district that allows for residential uses.
      3.   Measurement Of Minimum Distance: All distances shall be measured in
a straight line, without the consideration of intervening structures or
objects; from the nearest point on the property line of the lot on which an
applicable cultivation center is located to the nearest point of property line
of any zoning district that allows for residential uses.
      4.   Cultivation Centers Single Use Site: Cultivation centers shall be
established as the only use on a single parcel that complies with the
requirements of this section. Parking lot area shall be for the exclusive use
of the center and for no other uses as shared space.
      5.   Setbacks: Cultivation centers shall be a minimum of fifty feet zero
inches (50'0") from all property lines of the parcel intended for construction.
      6.   Parking:
         a.   Parking area shall be well lit and also be monitored by video
surveillance equipment whose live images are viewed by the staff who work as
security for the center. Surveillance equipment and recording devices shall be
tamperproof and continually video monitored twenty four (24) hours daily.
         b.   The video surveillance equipment and images shall be available
twenty four (24) hours per day seven (7) days a week to the department of
agricultural and law enforcement agencies via a secure web based portal.
         c.   Parking shall comply with the requirements that are set forth in
section
8-8-1-6, "Standard Parking And Handicapped Space Standards", of this title.
      7.   Signage:
         a.   Signage shall be limited to one flat wall sign that is limited in
area to ten (10) square feet. One identification sign is allowed as a
freestanding sign on the site that is limited to two (2) square feet in area.
No illumination of either sign will be allowed.
         b.   Signs shall not contain images such as cannabis leaves, plants,
smoke paraphernalia, or cartoonish imagery that is oriented toward youth or any
language referring to cannabis.
      8.   Security And Video Surveillance:
         a.   All cultivation, production and related operations at a medical
cannabis cultivation center shall be completed within an enclosed locked
facility. The facility shall have adequate security, lighting, video
surveillance, personnel and alarms designed to ensure the safety of persons and
to protect the site from theft.
         b.   The facility shall be enclosed on the perimeter with a high
security fencing (8 feet 0 inches) or wall that prevents unauthorized entry
with gates that are connected to an access control system.
         c.   All parking, cultivation, production warehouses, shipping bays,
and entrances shall be monitored twenty four (24) hours a day seven (7) days a
week by video surveillance equipment that is continually recorded in a
tamperproof format. The surveillance recordings shall be available to all local
and state law enforcement and the department of agriculture.
         d.   The land use department shall review the adequacy of the
lighting, security, and video surveillance with the aid of the local law
enforcement officials to ensure that the special use permit as authorized by
the county board has been complied with.
         e.   Loading of product shall occur with secure enclosed shipping bays
and shall not be visible from any point from the exterior of the facility.
      9.   Noxious Odors: All cultivation facilities shall be operated so that
odors are not released from the site to neighboring premises or properties, and
if necessary a ventilation system shall be employed to filter any ventilation
exhaust air from the building.
      10.   Activities On Site:
         a.   A cultivation center shall not sell or distribute any medical
cannabis to any individual or entity other than a licensed dispensary
organization that is registered under the compassionate use of medical cannabis
pilot program act.
         b.   The facility shall not cultivate, manufacture, process or package
any product other than medical cannabis and cannabis infused products, at a
cultivation center.
         c.   Consumption of cannabis is prohibited at the cultivation center
or anywhere on the site in which the center is located.
   B.   Medical Cannabis Dispensary:
      1.   Minimum Distance From Protected Uses:
         a.   No medical cannabis dispensary organization shall be established,
maintained or operated on any lot that has a property line within one thousand
feet (1,000') of a property line of a preexisting public or private preschool,
elementary or secondary school, daycare center or residence, or group daycare
residence.
         b.   No medical cannabis dispensary shall be located within five
hundred feet (500') of a property line that is adjacent to a preexisting zoning
district that allows for residential uses, place of worship, park or forest
preserve.
         c.   All measurements shall be in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures or objects, from the nearest point on the property line
of the lot on which an applicable dispensary is located to the nearest point on
any property line of any protected use.
         d.   The dispensary shall be a minimum of thirty feet (30') from all
property lines.
         e.   Dispensary shall be a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from
all other dispensaries as measured from the applicable property lines.
      2.   Compliance:
         a.   All dispensaries shall be in compliance with the compassionate
use of medical cannabis pilot program act 1  and all rules and regulations
adopted in accordance thereto.
         b.   No other uses shall be established on the tenant property or on a
site that shares parking with any other use.
      3.   Parking:
         a.   Parking shall be located such that it is visible from a public
road or a private road and shall be accessible to the public. There shall be no
visual obstruction such as vegetation or fencing that causes a visibility
issue.
         b.   Parking area shall be well lit and monitored by video
surveillance cameras that project live images to dispensary security staff and
are continually recorded in tamperproof format. All recorded images shall be
made available to local and state law officials when requested.
         c.   Parking shall comply with the requirements that are set forth in
section
8-8-1-6, "Standard Parking And Handicapped Space Standards", of this title.
      4.   Exterior Display And Advertising:
         a.   No spotlights, or flashing lights or similar advertising shall be
used to direct the public to the dispensary.
         b.   Signs shall be limited to one flat wall sign that is limited to a
maximum of ten (10) square feet and one freestanding sign that is not larger
than two (2) square feet.
         c.   Signs shall not contain cannabis imagery such as leaves, plant,
smoke, paraphernalia, or cartoonish imagery oriented toward youth or any
language referring to cannabis.
         d.   A sign shall be posted that specifically states the following:
"Only cardholders, designated caregivers, and staff may enter these premises.
Persons under the age of 18 are prohibited from entering." The text for this
sign shall not be larger than one inch (1") in height.
         e.   Merchandise packaging and bags for customers shall be opaque and
shall be without any graphics, text, or identifying features that indicate the
contents of the products within the packaging.
      5.   Hours Of Operation:
         a.   Dispensary hours shall be limited to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to
eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. local time.
         b.   Deliveries shall occur between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. local time and shall occur within a secure, enclosed
delivery bay that is not visible from any location off of the premises of the
dispensary.
      6.   Drive-Through Windows: Drive-through services are prohibited for
dispensaries.
      7.   Security And Video Surveillance:
         a.   Dispensaries shall be enclosed and locked with adequate security
that includes lighting, video surveillance, security personnel, and alarms that
are designed for the purpose of protecting the occupants and also the site from
theft.
         b.   The parking area, client entrance, sales area, backroom, storage
areas, and delivery bay and entrance shall all be monitored twenty four (24)
hours seven (7) days a week and have live images viewable by security on site.
All recordings of surveillance shall be made available to local and state law
officials.
         c.   The land use department shall review with the Grundy County
sheriff the lighting and security systems and video surveillance to determine
propriety for the facility.
      8.   Conduct At The Location:
         a.   Loitering is prohibited on the dispensary property and shall be
dealt with appropriately by the security staffing.
         b.   Cannabis products shall not be consumed within the dispensary or
anywhere on the site occupied by the dispensary. Consumption includes: smoking,
eating, drinking or any other form of consumption of cannabis.
      9.   Drug Paraphernalia Sales: Dispensaries that display or sell drug
paraphernalia shall do so in compliance with the Illinois drug paraphernalia
control act 1  and the compassionate use of medical cannabis pilot program act
2 . (Ord. 2014-018, 11-10-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
1 1. 720 ILCS 600/1 et seq.
2 2. 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
8-2-5-36: OUTDOOR PUBLIC SHOOTING RANGES:
Commercial Outdoor Public Shooting Ranges, not including private firearm
ranges, shall be permitted as special uses for firearm training purposes in A-
Agricultural and l-lndustrial zoning districts, subject to the following
provisions:
   A.   Development Requirements:
      1.   Commercial outdoor public shooting ranges shall be designed by a
design
professional (architect or engineer) who will verify compliance to the
standards listed in the current National Rifle Association (NRA) “The Range
Manual, A Guide to Planning and Construction”.
      2.   Setbacks for all portions of the outdoor public shooting range shall
be as follows:
         a.   300 feet from all property lines.
         b.   1,000 feet from all occupied structures on adjacent properties.
      3.   Warning signs: Warnings signs for the commercial outdoor public
shooting ranges shall be in compliance with the requirements listed in the NRA
“The Range Manual, A Guide to Planning and Construction” and be placed every
one hundred feet (100’-0”) along the perimeter of the facility.
      4.   Environmental Protection: The commercial outdoor public shooting
range shall be designed such that it is in compliance with the Best Management
Practices of the current edition of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency’s Best Management Practices for Lead at Outdoor Shooting Ranges. The
range shall be designed to prevent contamination of any waterway considered
“Waters of the U.S.” as defined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, wetland or
floodplain in accordance with the Clean Water Act.
      5.   Fencing shall be placed around the entire perimeter of the
commercial outdoor public shooting range. Fencing shall be six feet in height
and designed to prevent trespassing.
      6.   Parking and bathroom/sanitary facilities shall be provided for
maximum occupancy of the commercial outdoor public shooting range.
      7.   A safety plan shall be provided that complies with the requirements
of the NRA current edition of, “The Range Manual, A Guide to Planning and
Construction.”
   B.   Operational Requirements:
      1.   Hours of Operation shall be from 8:00 AM to sunset for hand firearm
training.
      Exception:
         a.   Law enforcement officers are able to practice after sunset for
the purposes of subdued lighting certification.
         b.   Night shooting as part of course certification shall be allowed
twice a month maximum that operates two hours after official sunset.
      2.   Liability Insurance: Proof of liability insurance in the minimum
amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) shall be provided to Grundy
County that names Grundy County as an additional insured party and shall save
and hold Grundy County, its appointed officials, and employees acting within
the scope of their duties harmless from and against all claims, demands, and
causes of action of any kind or character, including the cost of defense
thereof, arising in favor of a person or group’s members or employees or third
parties on account of any property damage arising out of the acts or omissions
of the permittee, his/her/ group, club, or its agents or representatives.
Grundy County shall be notified immediately if there are any changes or lapses
to this liability insurance coverage.
      3.   The facility shall have an NRA certified Chief Range Safety Officer
(CRSO) who writes the Standard Operating Procedures and oversees range
operations. Whenever the range is in use either the CRSO or a designated NRA
certified Range Safety Officer shall be present and supervising range safety.
      4.   The range safety manager shall provide an annual report to the Land
Use Department that indicates that the facility complies and is maintained such
that all of the requirements listed within this section, all local, state, and
federal fire arm/firearm laws, the current NRA edition of “The Range Manual A
Guide to Planning and Construction”, and any imposed additional conditions by
the County Board are complied with.
      5.   No alcohol or other illicit drugs shall be on the premises of the
facility nor shall any of the participants of the facility be under the
influence of drugs and/or alcohol during operational hours of the facility.
      6.   All participants utilizing the facility shall comply with all local,
state, and federal firearm and firearm laws.
      7.   The noise levels measured at the property line of the facility shall
not exceed sixty-five (65) dBA when the facility is adjacent or across the
street from an existing occupied structure.
   C.   Submittal for Special Use for Commercial Outdoor Public Shooting
Ranges:
      1.   Completed application
      2.   Drawings completed by a design professional (architect or engineer)
that provides all of the following information:
         a.   Property lines of the parcel that will include the shooting
facility.
         b.   Distance of the shooting range to all property lines.
         c.   Occupied structures on adjacent properties including properties
that are across the street within 1,000 feet.
         d.   Safety sign locations and example of such signage.
         e.   Fence location, and type.
         f.   Driveway and proposed parking area for participants.
         g.   Location and number of bathrooms/sanitary facilities for
participants.
         h.   Location of all streams, water, or waterways (including dry river
beds), floodplain, and wetland located on the property and distance to the
facility.
         i.   Existing structures, well head, and trees on the property and
distance to the facility.
         j.   Projected noise contours showing the dB levels at the property
lines if adjacent to occupied parcels
         k.   All details and information listed under A. Development
Requirements and B. Operational Requirements (Ord. 2021-015, 6-8-2021)
8-2-6: TEMPORARY USES:
This section
8-2-6 provides the standards for approval of temporary uses, including such
temporary uses as temporary outdoor sales, contractors' offices (on site), farm
stands, model homes, and the like. Additional standards may be applied as
determined necessary. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-6-1: STANDARDS FOR ALL TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   Standards: All temporary uses shall be reviewed against the following
criteria:
      1.   Traffic Circulation: The temporary use shall have adequate sight
distances for safe vehicular ingress and egress. It shall have adequate turn
lanes or provide for police control to move traffic in and out of the use. The
adjacent street shall have adequate capacity to handle the anticipated
additional flow of traffic.
      2.   Public Convenience And Litter Control: Adequate on site restroom
facilities may be required to handle the expected attendance. Adequate waste
containers shall be required and a written guarantee shall be required that all
litter generated by the event shall be removed at no expense to the county.
This shall include adjoining public rights of way.
      3.   Signs: A sign permit is not required; however, the land use
department shall review and approve all signage. The land use department may
approve signs up to fifty percent (50%) smaller than would be permitted in
chapter 5, "Signs", of this title, and may also approve attention getting
devices. The number, type, and size of signs and attention getting devices
shall be determined using the following criteria:
         a.   The need for obvious way finding information, based on the
location of the event and its likelihood of attracting visitors who are
unfamiliar with the area, who may lose their way or become confused if signs
are limited to the sign area otherwise allowed by this title.
         b.   The type, length, and size of the proposed event or use.
         c.   Sight distances, other signage in the area or on the property,
sidewalks, traffic volumes, and speed on the road.
         d.   Other lighting in area, type of neighbors, light intensity, and
glare potential.
         e.   Logical travel routes to the site.
   B.   Modification Of Provisions: The land use department may establish
additional conditions deemed necessary to ensure land use compatibility or
minimize potential adverse impacts on neighboring properties, public streets,
or the county. These may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Modification or restrictions on hours of operation or duration of
the event.
      2.   Posting of a performance bond to ensure cleanup and removal of
signage.
      3.   Arrangements satisfactory to the county for the provision of special
or extraordinary services or equipment, such as traffic control or security
personnel, or equipment that is needed to ensure safe operation of the use or
event. This may also include liability insurance.
      4.   The land use department may refuse to issue a permit if the event is
too large to be safe for the site, neighborhood, street, or other
infrastructure, or may place limits on attendance to ensure it can be properly
managed.
   C.   Other Permits And Licenses: All temporary uses or special events shall
comply with all state and county regulations pertaining to the intended
activities or occupancy. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-6-2: CONTRACTOR'S OFFICE:
Temporary contractors' offices shall be permitted in the planned residential
(PR), residential (R), commercial general (CG), and commercial interchange (CI)
districts, subject to administrative review that demonstrates that the
following provisions are met:
   A.   Occupancy: The office will not be opened or occupied until after the
latest of the following:
      1.   Final plat or development plan approval which identifies the
location of the sales or contractor's office; or
      2.   Issuance of a curb cut permit for the development.
   B.   Removal: The office structure shall be removed or converted to a use
permitted in the district upon the earlier of:
      1.   Ten (10) days after the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for
the final unit or building; or
      2.   In residential developments, after the last house is framed.
   C.   Hours Of Operation: Contractors' offices shall operate from no more
than one hour before to one hour after permitted construction hours in the
county. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-6-3: FARM STAND OR FARMERS' MARKET:
Temporary farm stands or farmers' markets may be permitted in the agricultural
(A) district, subject to administrative review that demonstrates that the
following provisions are met:
   A.   Access should be taken by means of the farmer's driveway.
   B.   Additional curb cuts would need to be approved separately. The township
road commissioner, Illinois department of transportation, or the county highway
engineer would provide approval of curb cuts if it was a township, state, or
county road, respectively.
   C.   In addition to meeting any Illinois department of transportation
setback and access requirements, the development review committee shall ensure
that there is adequate access and parking. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-6-4: MODEL HOMES:
The use of temporary model homes may be allowed in the planned residential (PR)
and residential (R) districts, subject to administrative review that
demonstrates that the following provisions are met:
   A.   Permits for model homes shall be issued after the roads and all
utilities are installed and the subdivision plat is recorded or a guarantee in
the form of a letter of credit or other similar instrument is filed with the
county.
   B.   The units shall have approved landscaping and paved parking prior to
use as model homes.
   C.   Residential use is not permitted until the home is no longer used for
sales purposes and a regular occupancy permit is issued. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-2-6-5: SPECIAL EVENTS:
Special events in public athletic fields or parks may be regulated by the
county board or appropriate school district and are not limited by this
section. All other special events may be authorized as a special use in
agricultural (A), commercial general (CG), and commercial interchange (CI)
districts. All other special events shall meet the following standards:
   A.   Frequency: Special events shall not be held on a property more than two
(2) times per calendar year.
   B.   Duration: The special event shall be limited to no more than four (4)
successive days.
   C.   Access: If deemed necessary by the county sheriff, property access
shall be controlled by special traffic personnel paid for by the applicant.
Prior to receiving a permit, the applicant must provide written communication
from the sheriff indicating adequate provisions have been made.
   D.   Sanitation: The county health department shall approve the sanitary
provisions. Prior to receiving a permit, the applicant must provide written
communication from the environmental health director indicating adequate
provisions have been made.
   E.   Electrical Service And Lighting: The county's electrical inspector
shall approve all electric and lighting facilities. Prior to receiving a
permit, the applicant must provide written communication from the inspector
indicating adequate provisions have been made.
   F.   Noise: Maximum noise levels shall comply with Grundy County ordinance
08-004.
   G.   Surety: The applicant shall provide surety for complete site
restoration upon the event's conclusion or should the permit be revoked. (Ord.
10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-2-6-6: SALES OFFICE:
Temporary sales offices are permitted in commercial general (CG), commercial
interchange (CI), and industrial (I) districts, subject to administrative
review that demonstrates that the following provisions are met:
   A.   Residential Property:
      1.   Scale Of Development: Sales offices are permitted only if the
development includes five (5) or more residential units to be constructed on
contiguous lots.
      2.   Time Of Occupancy:
         a.   Sales offices will not be opened or occupied until a final plat
or development plan is approved and the road and utilities are installed or a
letter of credit or similar guarantee is filed with the county.
         b.   Sales offices will be removed after the last house is framed, or
the office structure will be converted to a use permitted in the district
within ten (10) days after the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the
final unit or building.
      3.   Location: The final plat or development plan identifies the location
of the sales office.
   B.   Commercial And Industrial Property: Sales offices for office, business,
or industrial park uses will be removed when the first building that is not
built for a single occupancy is completed. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
CHAPTER 3
DISTRICT INTENSITY AND BULK STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose
8-3-2: Conventional Residential Development
8-3-2-1: Residential Density Standards
8-3-2-2: Single-Family Detached
8-3-3: Planned And Cluster Development
8-3-3-1: Dwelling Unit Mix Standards For Planned Residential Developments
8-3-4: Nonresidential Scale
8-3-4-1: Nonresidential Bulk Standards
8-3-4-2: Nonresidential Scale And Design Regulations
8-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish the general standards for the
character of development that is allowed within each zoning district.
   A.   Standards Applicable To Parcels Proposed For Development: This chapter
establishes general regulations for the character of specific parcels proposed
for development. This is accomplished through the establishment of:
      1.   Limitations on density and intensity,
      2.   Minimum open space requirements for residential and mixed use
development,
      3.   Maximum impervious surface areas for nonresidential development, and
      4.   Minimum lot area requirements for all land uses.
   B.   Standards Applicable To Individual Lots: The character of development
of individual lots is regulated by minimum requirements for building height,
lot dimensions, setbacks, floor area ratios, and open space or impervious
surface limitations. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-3-2: CONVENTIONAL RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT:
8-3-2-1: RESIDENTIAL DENSITY STANDARDS:
Residential site development standards are shown in
table 8-3-2-1, "Residential Density Standards", of this section.
TABLE 8-3-2-1
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY STANDARDS
District And       Minimum Open Space                  Minimum Area Of Site
Development Type   Ratio (OSR)1       Minimum Lot Size Proposed For Development
(Average Lot Size)
                                  Minimum                              Minimum
                                  Open                                 Area Of
District And Development Type     Space   Minimum Lot Size             Site
(Average Lot Size)                Ratio                                Proposed
                                  (OSR)1                               For
                                                                       Development
Agricultural (A):                                                     
    Farmstead                 n/a     1.5 acres                    20 ac.
                                                                       10 acres
    Manufactured home park    0.20    7,200 sq. ft. – 12,240 sq. with 20
                                          ft.                          acres
                                                                       maximum
    Single-family (Ag. split  n/a     5 acres                      20 acres
option)2
Agricultural residential (AR):                                        
    Farmstead                 n/a     1.5 acres                    n/a
    Single-family             n/a     1.5 acres                    n/a
Planned residential (PR):                                             
    Cluster                   0.25    18,000 sq. ft.               15 acres
    Single-family             0.10    2 acres                      15 acres
Residential (R):                                                      
                                  See section
    All permitted residential 8-3-2-2, "
types                             Table 8-3-2-2, Single-Family Lot And Building
                                  Standards", of this chapter for the residential
                                  (R) district
Commercial general (CG):                                              
    Multi-family              0.30    8,000 sq. ft.                4 acres
 
Notes:
   1.    OSR - "open space ratio". OSR for single-family and manufactured
housing development does not apply to the development of 1 home on an
individual lot of record.
   2.    Up to 5 lots permitted, provided there is a 20 acre combined required
area per single- family residence. See section
8-2-4-10 of this title.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-3-2-2: SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED:
   A.   Generally: The single-family detached housing type consists of a
single-family detached residence located on a privately owned lot with private
yards on each side of the unit. There shall be not more than one such principal
residential dwelling on each lot. See
figure 8-3-2-2, "Single-Family Detached Unit", of this section.
FIGURE 8-3-2-2
SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED UNIT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1644.gif]
   B.   Standards: The lot and building standards for single-family detached
units are set out in
table 8-3-2-2, "Single-Family Lot And Building Standards", of this section.
TABLE 8-3-2-2
SINGLE-FAMILY LOT AND BUILDING STANDARDS
Zoning   Minimum                                                Maximum
District Minimum  Lot Width Front Side Yard Corner    Rear Yard Height Building
         Lot Area           Yard            Side Yard                  Coverage
Zoning       Minimum                                            Maximum
District     Minimum  Lot   Front Side Yard Corner    Rear Yard Height Building
             Lot Area Width Yard            Side Yard                  Coverage
Agricultural 1.5 acre 170'  50'   30'       50'       50'       35'    –
(A)
Agricultural 1.5
residential  acre1    170'  50'   50'       50'       50'       35'    0.15
(AR)
Planned      18,000
residential  sq. ft.  90'   25'   25'       25'       35'       28'    0.3
(PR)
Residential
(R)          See subsection C of this section
subdistricts
Residential  5 acres  350'  50'   40'       50'       50'       35'    0.06
(R-200)
Residential  40,000   100'  50'   30'       50'       40'       30'    0.3
(R-40)       sq. ft.
Residential  12,500   80'   25'   10'       30'       30'       30'    0.4
(R-12)       sq. ft.
 
Note:
   1.    See section
8-2-3-11, "Residential Development", of this title, for additional lot area
requirements for the agricultural residential (AR) district.
   C.   Dwellings In The Residential (R) District: The development standards
are intended to allow flexibility to property owners in established
neighborhoods within the residential (R) district to improve and expand their
homes in a manner that is consistent with the character of the immediate area.
      1.   Subdistricts are established within the residential (R) district to
accommodate variation in the forms and scale of residential development and
subdivisions that have been built in the unincorporated areas of Grundy County
under earlier zoning provisions.
      2.   The lot and building standards for residential (R) subdistricts are
as shown in
table 8-3-2-2, "Single-Family Lot And Building Standards", of this section.
   D.   Attached Accessory Residential Units: Accessory dwellings may be built
on any existing or future single-family residential lot that meets the
standards below. The accessory unit is exempted from the calculation as a
dwelling unit when determining the maximum density in section
8-3-2-1, "
Table 8-3-2-1, Residential Density Standards", of this chapter. Accessory units
may be constructed as follows:
      1.   Transition: The plan shall provide a means of protecting adjoining
residential uses or residentially zoned land from any impacts of the additional
density and design of the unit. Increased buffer yard opacity, landscaping,
setbacks from the adjoining homes, or prohibiting the lots that abut the site
boundary from having the accessory units are techniques that may be required
(see chapter 9, "Landscaping And Tree Protection", of this title).
      2.   Unit Standards: An accessory unit shall consist of not more than
eight hundred fifty (850) square feet. It shall have no more than one bedroom
or bathroom.
      3.   Unit Design: The applicant shall submit plans showing how the home
will be designed to provide for an attached accessory unit. The unit shall be
within the structure or above an attached garage. Specific design standards
shall be provided for each one of the arrangements that are to be permitted. In
no event shall a single-family or cluster lot smaller than six thousand (6,000)
square feet contain an accessory unit.
      4.   Appearance: The accessory living unit, and any related changes to
the property, shall be designed so that the appearance remains that of a
single-family residence and is consistent with the single-family character of
other residences in the neighborhood. Any new entrances shall be located on the
side or in the rear of the building.
      5.   Other Forms Of Ownership Prohibited: The single-family dwelling or
the accessory living unit shall not be converted to a condominium or any other
form of legal ownership distinct from the ownership of the existing single-
family dwelling. An accessory living unit shall be recorded by deed addendum,
indicating the conditions and limitations of the approval granted.
      6.   Owner Occupied Principal Dwelling Required: The single-family
dwelling to which an accessory living unit has been added shall be owner
occupied.
      7.   Allowed As Part Of Housing: Accessory living units will be allowed
only as part of single-family detached housing.
      8.   Access To Principal Dwelling: The accessory living unit shall have
convenient and direct access to the principal dwelling unit.
      9.   Occupancy: The occupancy shall be limited to a specific extended
family member(s). For the purposes of this title, "extended family" is defined
as parents (and their spouses), grandparents (and their spouses), children (and
their spouses), grandchildren and persons under legal guardianship. In the
event that extended family member(s) vacate that unit, the administrative
review permit shall expire and any new occupancy shall require a new
administrative review permit application. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-3-3: PLANNED AND CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT:
8-3-3-1: DWELLING UNIT MIX STANDARDS FOR PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Generally: All planned developments shall provide a mix of dwelling
unit types.
   B.   Requirement:
Table 8-3-3-1, "Dwelling Unit Mix Requirements", of this section, indicates the
number of dwelling unit types that are required for developments of various
sizes.
TABLE 8-3-3-1
DWELLING UNIT MIX REQUIREMENTS
 
Project Size (Total Minimum Number Of Maximum Percentage Minimum Percentage Any
Units)              Types             Any Type           Type1
Less than 30        1                 100                25
30 – 80           2                 70                 20
More than 80        3                 55                 10
 
Note:
   1.    This requirement applies even if more than the minimum number of
housing types are provided.
   C.   Phasing:
      1.   When a development is to be phased, the maximum residential
development capacity of the site shall be used for calculating the required
mix.
      2.   When a parcel is broken up over time and developed as planned
developments, the county may impose a mix based on the original property size
to ensure an adequate mix of housing types. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-3-4:   NONRESIDENTIAL SCALE:
8-3-4-1:NONRESIDENTIAL BULK STANDARDS:
Nonresidential bulk requirements include the following requirements:
TABLE 8-3-4-1
NONRESIDENTIAL BULK REQUIREMENTS
         Minimum                                                       Maximum
District                                                  Minimum Area
And Use  Lot Area Lot Width1 Front   Side Yard Rear Yard1 Of Proposed  Building
                             Yard1,2                      Land         Height
                                                          Development1
                                   Minimum                                        Maximum
                                                                     Minimum Area
District And Use                   Lot     Lot    Front   Side Rear  Of Proposed  Building
                                   Area    Width1 Yard1,2 Yard Yard1 Land         Height
                                                                     Development1
Agricultural (A) and agricultural residential
(AR):
   All uses                     5 acres n/a    50 ft.  25   50    5 acres      35 ft.
                                                          ft.  ft.
Planned residential (PR):
   Institutional residential    2 acres 100    40 ft.  15   25    2 acres      35 ft.
                                           ft.            ft.  ft.
   Office/retail/service        10,000  100    40 ft.  25   25    1 acre       35 ft.
                                   sq. ft. ft.            ft.  ft.
   All other uses               5 acres 100    50 ft.  25   30    5 acres      35 ft.
                                           ft.            ft.  ft.
Residential (R):
                                   4 times
                                   the
                                   minimum 2 times the yards
   All permitted nonresidential lot     required for single-      2 acres      35 ft.
uses                               area    family development
                                   for
                                   single-
                                   family
Commercial general (CG) and commercial interchange (CI):
   Commercial retail            15,000  100    40 ft.  15   25    1 acre       35 ft.
                                   sq. ft. ft.            ft.  ft.
   Office/lodging               15,000  100    40 ft.  15   25    2 acres      50 ft.
                                   sq. ft. ft.            ft.  ft.
   Services                     15,000  100    40 ft.  15   25    1 acre       35 ft.
                                   sq. ft. ft.            ft.  ft.
   All other uses               20,000  100    40 ft.  20   25    1 acre       35 ft.
                                   sq. ft. ft.            ft.  ft.
Industrial (I):
                                                                                  4 stories
                                   20,000  120            20   30                 or 50
   Light industrial             sq. ft. ft.    40 ft.  ft.  ft.   1 acre       ft.,
                                                                                  whichever
                                                                                  is lower
                                                                                  4 stories
                                   60,000  150            30   30                 or 50
   Heavy industrial             sq. ft. ft.    50 ft.  ft.  ft.   2 acres      ft.,
                                                                                  whichever
                                                                                  is lower
                                                                                  3 stories
                                           150            30   30                 or 40
   Warehouse                    1 acre  ft.    50 ft.  ft.  ft.   2 acres      ft.,
                                                                                  whichever
                                                                                  is lower
                                                                                  4 stories
                                   20,000  120            20   25                 or 50
   All other uses               sq. ft. ft.    40 ft.  ft.  ft.   1 acre       ft.,
                                                                                  whichever
                                                                                  is lower
 
Notes:
   1.    Along Route 47, frontages and yard requirements in excess of the
minimum requirements specified here may be required. See chapter 10, "Overlay
District", of this title.
   2.    Front yard refers to the front yard of a lot. A typical corner lot
would have 2 front yards.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-3-4-2: NONRESIDENTIAL SCALE AND DESIGN REGULATIONS:
   A.   CG and CI districts:
      1.   Access: Nonresidential uses that are larger than ten thousand
(10,000) square feet in floor area shall be located on lots that front on
collector or arterial streets.
      2.   Prohibited Building Finish Materials: Building materials used for
exterior walls of each elevation of all nonresidential buildings shall not use
prefabricated metal siding or corrugated metal.
   B.   PR district: Nonresidential uses shall not have a floor area greater
than:
      1.   Five thousand (5,000) square feet for a freestanding building;
      2.   Seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet for a multi- tenant
building with common entrances; or
      3.   Nine thousand (9,000) square feet for a multi-tenant building with
separate entrances. However, drugstores may be up to sixteen thousand (16,000)
square feet and may be located in freestanding buildings or multi-tenant
buildings of up to twenty five thousand (25,000) square feet, provided that the
drugstore is the anchor tenant. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
CHAPTER 4
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Purpose
8-4-2: Resource Protection Standards
8-4-2-1: Protected Resources
8-4-2-2: Resource Protection Levels
8-4-2-3: Delineation Of Resources
8-4-3: Floodplain Management And Flood Damage Prevention 1  (Rep. by Ord. 2016-
003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-4: General Environmental Standards
8-4-4-1: Noise
8-4-4-2: Vibration
8-4-4-3: Emissions And Odors
8-4-5: Stormwater Management
8-4-5-1: Title; Authority
8-4-5-2: Stormwater Management; Adoption
8-4-5-3: Purpose
8-4-5-3-1: Purpose And Goals
8-4-5-4: Reference To Watershed Plans
8-4-5-4-1: Integrated Nature Of Watershed
8-4-5-4-2: Unique Attributes
8-4-5-4-3: Watershed Plans Adopted By County
8-4-5-5: Abbreviations
8-4-5-6: Definitions
8-4-5-7: Requirements For Stormwater Management
8-4-5-7-1: General Information
8-4-5-7-2: Development Requirements
8-4-5-7-3: Developer Of A Redevelopment Asks For Fee In Lieu
8-4-5-7-4: Developer Of A Development Asks For Fee In Lieu
8-4-5-8: General Stormwater Requirements
8-4-5-8-1: Development
8-4-5-8-2: Restrictions
8-4-5-8-3: Site Runoff Requirements
8-4-5-8-4: Site Runoff Storage Requirements (Detention)
8-4-5-9: Erosion And Sediment Control
8-4-5-9-1: Erosion And Sediment Control Planning
8-4-5-10: Protection Of Special Management Areas
8-4-5-10-1: Disclaimer
8-4-5-10-2: Statewide Permits
8-4-5-10-3: Floodplain Management
8-4-5-10-4: Floodplain, BFE And Regulatory Floodway Locations
8-4-5-10-5: General Performance Standards
8-4-5-10-6: Nonconforming Structures
8-4-5-10-7: Lowest Opening
8-4-5-10-8: Compensatory Storage Volume Standards
8-4-5-10-9: Development In The Floodway
8-4-5-10-10: Riverine Floodplain Without A Delineated Floodway
8-4-5-10-11: Bridge And Culvert Standards
8-4-5-10-12: Requirements For Wetland Delineation
8-4-5-10-13: Mitigation To Be Local
8-4-5-10-14: Wetland Preservation During Development
8-4-5-10-15: Buffer Requirements
8-4-5-10-16: Wetland Impacts And Mitigation
8-4-5-10-17: Immitigable Wetlands; Exceptions
8-4-5-10-18: Mitigation Required
8-4-5-10-19: Mitigation Requirements
8-4-5-10-20: Wetland Mitigation Plan
8-4-5-10-21: Buffer Requirements For Wetland Mitigation Facilities
8-4-5-10-22: Wetland Mitigation Performance Standards
8-4-5-10-23: Mitigation Monitoring
8-4-5-10-24: Mitigation Required For Nonperforming Wetland
8-4-5-10-25: Denial Of Permit; Appeal
8-4-5-11: Required Submittals For Stormwater Management Permits
8-4-5-11-1: Duration And Revision Of Permits
8-4-5-11-2: Required Submittals
8-4-5-11-3: Application And Project Overview
8-4-5-11-4: Plan Set Submittal
8-4-5-11-5: Stormwater Submittal
8-4-5-11-6: Floodplain Submittal
8-4-5-11-7: Wetland Submittal
8-4-5-11-8: Performance Security
8-4-5-11-9: Maintenance Schedule And Funding
8-4-5-11-10: Record Drawings
8-4-5-11-11: Terms Of Permit/Denial And Appeal
8-4-5-12: Long Term Maintenance
8-4-5-12-1: Transfer To Permitting Authority Or Other Public Entity
8-4-5-12-2: Transfer To Homeowners' Or Similar Association
8-4-5-12-3: Conveyance To One Or More Persons
8-4-5-12-4: Incorporation Of Maintenance Obligations Into The Stormwater
Management Permit
8-4-5-13: Enforcement And Penalties
8-4-5-13-1: Inspection And Maintenance Authority
8-4-5-13-2: Required Inspections
8-4-5-13-3: Offenses
8-4-5-13-4: Offenses; Penalties And Remedies
8-4-5-14: General Provisions
8-4-5-14-1: Scope Of Regulations
8-4-5-14-2: Exemptions
8-4-5-14-3: Committee's Determination Of Exemption
8-4-5-14-4: Community's List Of Proposed Exempt Developments
8-4-5-14-5: Interpretation
8-4-5-14-6: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
8-4-5-14-7: Choice Of Planning Jurisdiction
8-4-5-14-8: Severability
8-4-5-14-9: Repealer
8-4-5-14-10: Amendments
8-4-5-14-11: Effective Date
8-4-5-15: Variances
8-4-5-15-1: Purpose
8-4-5-15-2: Application For Variance
8-4-5-15-3: Application Fee
8-4-5-15-4: Public Hearing
8-4-5-15-5: Granting Of Variances
8-4-5-15-5-1: Granting Of Variances (Not Including Granting Of Variances From
Floodplain Management Regulations)
8-4-5-15-5-2: Granting Of Variances From Floodplain Management Regulations
8-4-5-15-6: Recommendations
8-4-5-15-7: Decision
8-4-5-15-8: Conditions
8-4-5-16: Administration
8-4-5-16-1: Responsibility For Administration
8-4-5-16-2: Duties Of The Certified Community And County Land Use Department
8-4-5-16-3: Duties Of The County Administrator And Administrator
8-4-5-16-4: Representative Capacity
8-4-5-16-5: Oversight Committee
8-4-5-16-6: Decision Making Authority
8-4-5-16-7: Service
8-4-5-16-8: Publication
8-4-5-17: Certified Community Enforcement
8-4-5-17-1: Petition For Certification And Waiver Of Enforcement
8-4-5-17-2: Filing And Contents Of Petition For Certification
8-4-5-17-3: Committee Consideration Of Petition For Certification
8-4-5-17-4: Standards For Certification
8-4-5-17-5: Certified Community Records
8-4-5-17-6: Committee Review Of Enforcement By Certified Community
8-4-5-17-7: Investigations; Compliance
8-4-5-17-8: Hearing On Complaint
8-4-5-17-9: Committee Decision
8-4-5-18: Performance Security
8-4-5-18-1: Development Security
8-4-5-18-2: Erosion And Sediment Control Security
8-4-5-18-3: Wetland Mitigation And Performance Security
8-4-5-18-4: Letters Of Credit
8-4-5-19: Fee In Lieu Of Site Runoff Storage And Wetland Mitigation
8-4-5-19-1: Procedures; Use Of Funds
8-4-5-19-2: Fee In Lieu Of Wetland Mitigation
8-4-5-19-3: Procedure
8-4-5-20: Qualified Review Specialists
8-4-5-20-1: Requirements For Qualified Review Specialists
8-4-5-20-2: Requirements For Qualified Wetland Review Specialists
8-4-5-20-3: Review Of Qualifications
8-4-5-20-4: Review Specialist Qualification Committee
8-4-5-20-5: Investigation; Compliance
8-4-5-20-6: Hearing On Complaint
8-4-5-20-7: Decision Of The RSQC
8-4-5-20-8: Appeals
8-4-5-21: Appendices
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-4-5-10-3 of this chapter.
8-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect public health, safety,
and general welfare by protecting areas of environmental sensitivity and by
regulating development to minimize the impact of development on the environment
or citizens of the county.
   A.   Resource Protection: Protecting and preserving existing natural
resources by:
      1.   Preserving Agricultural Land: Growth of estate, suburban, and urban
uses are directed to municipalities because services are available and higher
intensities fit the context of the built environment. Compact development in
municipalities minimizes the loss of agricultural land in the county that would
otherwise be developed as low intensity residential (sprawl).
      2.   Reduction Of Runoff And Increase Of Groundwater Recharge: Clustering
results in the lowest possible levels of impervious surface. This allows
natural runoff and recharge to take place.
      3.   Provision And Protection Of Wildlife Habitats: Wetlands,
floodplains, and steep wooded lands are protected.
      4.   Protection Or Enhancement Of Water And Air Quality: Encouraging
growth to occur in the county's established municipalities reduces trip length
and road maintenance, thus enhancing air and water quality.
   B.   Flood Damage Prevention: Minimizing public and private losses due to
flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Prohibit or restrict any development in the floodway, floodplains,
or wetlands;
      2.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      3.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      4.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers that are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      5.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development activities
that may increase erosion or flood damage;
      6.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
      7.   Keep federally supported flood insurance available for structures
and their contents by fulfilling the requirements of the national flood
insurance program; and
      8.   Enhance the likelihood of compliance with the Grundy County
stormwater ordinance, section
8-4-5 of this chapter.
   C.   Control Emissions And Nuisances: Minimize adverse impacts on the
population from emissions from land uses. Limit noise, light and glare, dirt,
dust, chemicals, odors, or other emissions associated with land development.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-4-2: RESOURCE PROTECTION STANDARDS:
8-4-2-1: PROTECTED RESOURCES:
The following natural areas are given limited protection from development:
   A.   Floodplain or floodways: Construction of buildings for human occupancy
shall be permitted in the floodplain only if in accordance with the standards
of section
8-4-5-10-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Wetlands: All development and land improvements shall comply with the
Grundy County stormwater ordinance.
   C.   Steep slopes: These areas include slopes in excess of ten percent
(10%). There are two (2) categories, ten (10) to twenty percent (20%) and
slopes in excess of twenty percent (20%).
   D.   Riparian woodlands and mature trees: These wooded areas near streams
are located on slopes of less than ten percent (10%). (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-4-2-2: RESOURCE PROTECTION LEVELS:
The area of resources designated in this section shall be protected as
indicated in
table 8-4-2-2, "Resource Protection Standards", of this section.
   A.   Site Plan Requirements: The site plan shall designate the areas and
acreages of each resource listed in
table 8-4-2-2, "Resource Protection Standards", of this section. The area to be
protected shall meet the open space requirements for each resource category.
The site plan shall include a table that enumerates the following:
      1.   The total acreage of each designated resource area on the site.
      2.   The protected acreage for each resource.
      3.   The acreage for each resource that is permitted to be disturbed.
      4.   The acreage for each resource that will be disturbed when the
project is completed.
   B.   Protecting Resources: Protected areas shall be designated on the plan
as common open space. The county board may also permit a conservation easement
on properties intended for development as long as the minimum area requirements
for residential lots are met outside the easement.
   C.   Overlapping Resources: It is likely that resource areas will overlap.
In these cases, the area of the most restrictive resource (that with the
highest open space ratio) shall be used.
TABLE 8-4-2-2
RESOURCE PROTECTION STANDARDS
 
Resource                          Required Open Space Ratio
                                  Agricultural (A) District All Other Districts
Wetlands                          1                         1
Steep slopes (10 to 20%)          0.25                      0.5
Steep slopes (greater than 20%)   0.6                       0.8
Riparian woodland or mature trees 0.25                      0.5
 
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-4-2-3: DELINEATION OF RESOURCES:
   A.   Generally: All subdivisions and development site plans shall delineate
the resources listed in section
8-4-2-1, "Protected Resources", of this chapter on a site analysis map that
depicts the locations of each resource category along with topography. Such
delineation shall be performed by a registered professional engineer.
   B.   Mapping Criteria: The following criteria shall be used for mapping
natural resources:
      1.   Streams (perennial, intermittent, mapped, and unmapped) with
identifiable banks and beds shall have their boundaries set at the top of the
bank.
      2.   Initial identification of the watercourses/water bodies shall be
made using the U.S. geological survey quadrangle maps or more accurate
information, as available. Field survey verification is required for
preliminary plats and site plans in order to establish the location of
channelized flow.
      3.   Woodlands shall be measured at the tree canopy line.
      4.   Wetlands shall be delineated by the criteria promulgated by the U.S.
army corps of engineers.
   C.   Boundaries: Boundaries shall be drawn as follows:
      1.   Measurements for boundaries shall be made horizontally,
perpendicular from, or radial from any feature or point.
      2.   Boundaries that are dependent on elevation shall be based upon on
site elevations and shall not be interpolated.
   D.   Topography: Topographic lines shall be at one foot (1') contour
intervals. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-4-3: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT AND FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 8-4-5-10-3 of this chapter.
8-4-4: GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS:
8-4-4-1: NOISE:
No use, operation, or activity shall cause or create noise in excess of the
sound levels prescribed in the Grundy County nuisance ordinance. (Ord. 10-001,
1-12-2010)
8-4-4-2: VIBRATION:
No vibration shall be produced that is transmitted through the ground or air
and is discernable without the aid of instruments at or on any point beyond the
lot line of the property on which the activity or operation occurs. (Ord. 10-
001, 1-12-2010)
8-4-4-3: EMISSIONS AND ODORS:
   A.   Control Of Emissions: All industrial uses shall submit verification
that their proposed smoke and particulate matter emissions meet federal and
state air quality standards set forth by the U.S. environmental protection
agency (code of federal regulations title 40) and the state of Illinois.
   B.   State And Federal Permits: No regulated emission source shall be
constructed or operate without required permits from the state and federal
governments.
   C.   Other Objectionable Odors: Objectionable odors that are noticeable at
any point beyond the property line are prohibited. The determination of
objectionable odors shall be made by the zoning officer, who shall visit the
site and determine if the use is emitting an odor that is considered offensive
to adjoining uses. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-4-5: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:
8-4-5-1: TITLE; AUTHORITY:
   A.   This section
8-4-5 shall be known as the GRUNDY COUNTY STORMWATER MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE
(hereafter referred to as "GCSMO").
   B.   The Grundy County board adopts this section
8-4-5 pursuant to its authority to regulate stormwater management and govern
the location width, course and release rate of all stormwater runoff channels,
streams and basins in the county, consistent with the objectives of the Grundy
County comprehensive land use plan. The statutory authority for this section
8-4-5 is contained in 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1041, 5/5-1049, 5/5-
1062.2, 5/5-1063, 5/5-1104, 5/5-12003 and 5/5-15001 et seq., and 415 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/43 and other applicable authority, all as amended from time
to time.
   C.   As applicable, the municipalities within Grundy County adopt and
enforce this section
8-4-5 pursuant to 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1062; 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2 and other applicable authority, all as
amended from time to time. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-2: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT; ADOPTION:
This section
8-4-5 was recommended by the Grundy County stormwater steering committee and
was adopted by the Grundy County board, after review by the appropriate
agencies and a public hearing. This section
8-4-5 is available for public inspection in the land use department and the
Grundy County clerk's office. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-3: PURPOSE:
8-4-5-3-1: PURPOSE AND GOALS:
The purpose of this section
8-4-5 is to promote effective, equitable, acceptable and legal stormwater
management measures by establishing reasonable rules and regulations for
developments. All of the purposes are consistent with the intent of the Grundy
County comprehensive land use plan. The goals of this section
8-4-5 are highlighted below:
   A.   To protect the public from the degradation of the quality of the water
supply on a watershed basis.
   B.   To develop standards that assure new development does not increase the
drainage or flood hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible
to erosion.
   C.   To protect and enhance the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions
and natural characteristics of watercourses and floodplains to protect water
quality, aquatic habitats, reduce flood damage, reduce soil erosion, provide
recreational and aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development.
   D.   To manage sediment and erosion in and from stormwater facilities,
developments, and agricultural fields and construction sites and to reduce and
repair stream bank erosion.
   E.   To manage developments such that those developments are carefully
planned for water resources. This management shall include the natural features
such as vegetation, wildlife, waterways, wetlands and topography such that the
surface or ground water is not negatively impacted.
   F.   To protect environmentally sensitive areas from deterioration or
destruction by private or public actions.
   G.   To require appropriate and adequate provisions for site runoff control,
especially when the land that is being developed contains a large amount of
impervious surface.
   H.   To manage the rules and regulations of the national flood insurance
program, this allows all residents within the county the ability to purchase
federally subsidized flood insurance.
   I.   To manage potential conflicts between incompatible land users such as
agricultural and urban uses while maintaining agriculture as a viable and
productive use within the county.
   J.   To protect and encourage the cooperation between units of government
that have jurisdiction over floodplain and stormwater management.
   K.   To protect and improve the surface water quality and to provide
beneficial uses of ponds, lakes, wetlands, rivers and streams by reducing point
source and nonpoint contamination sources.
   L.   To manage the control of stormwater quantity and quality at the most
site specific or local level and preventing unauthorized or unmitigated
discharge of flow off site.
   M.   To manage and implement a procedure that will allow Grundy County
municipalities to petition the committee for authority to implement and enforce
the requirements of this section
8-4-5.
   N.   To manage and require strict compliance with and enforcement of this
section
8-4-5.
   O.   To protect and improve the quality of waterways, including groundwater,
floodplains, wetlands and the natural drainage systems of the county.
   P.   To create a wetland protection ordinance as a means to preserve their
function and aesthetics and reduce water pollution and maintain storm and flood
water capacity.
   Q.   To utilize a stormwater management system that incorporates the natural
watershed functions to reduce the negative impacts of development on water
quality.
   R.   To represent the interest of the area drainage districts and other
interested organizations such as the Grundy County soil and water conservation
district and other interested organizations to promote the protection of the
Aux Sable Creek, Mazon River, Nettle Creek, Waupecan Creek and Illinois River
watersheds by creating and implementing stormwater controls on new development
in the county.
   S.   To encourage residential, commercial and industrial developments that
preserve and enhance natural features such as vegetation, waterways, wetlands,
topography and scenic vistas through proper planning and designation of
environmental corridors and buffers.
   T.   To establish environmental design standards and development controls to
promote responsible development and regulate the amount, distribution and type
of open space necessary to minimize adverse impacts, protect natural features
of the environment, and provide adequate recreational areas.
   U.   To promote a network of greenbelts and greenways to protect wildlife
habitat/movement, floodplains, wetlands and natural drainage systems and also
to protect and encourage the use of native/natural vegetation.
   V.   To promote environmentally supportive recreational uses of lands in
floodplains and areas adjacent to waterways and other natural open space
systems.
   W.   To promote and encourage design techniques to ensure that impervious
areas in watersheds are minimized to enhance groundwater regeneration, minimize
runoff and maintain ecological health.
   X.   To promote water detention, retention, infiltration and best management
practices throughout a development and as close to its source as possible to
increase the quality and reduce the quantity of stormwater runoff.
   Y.   To manage stormwater runoff volume and reduce groundwater depletion by
encouraging the use of permeable pavements, infiltration trenches, wetland
bottom ponds, bioswales, rain gardens and other best management practices.
   Z.   To meet the specific floodplain management purposes listed in
subsection
8-4-5-10-3A of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-4: REFERENCE TO WATERSHED PLANS:
8-4-5-4-1: INTEGRATED NATURE OF WATERSHED:
This section
8-4-5 recognizes the integrated nature of the watershed system and the need to
study certain flood control alternatives and other stormwater management
functions on a watershed wide basis. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-4-2: UNIQUE ATTRIBUTES:
Individual watershed plans or interim watershed plans which recognize the
unique attributes of each watershed may be prepared and periodically updated
for the major watersheds to identify management projects and establish criteria
for development. These plans may also recommend changes to this section
8-4-5 as amendments to the watershed plans occur. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-4-3: WATERSHED PLANS ADOPTED BY COUNTY:
Watershed plans or interim watershed plans may be adopted by the Grundy County
board that contains more stringent requirements. If adopted, the affected
sections within this section
8-4-5 shall be modified to reflect the ideals listed within that watershed
plan. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-5: ABBREVIATIONS:
The following abbreviations when used within this section
8-4-5 shall have the following designated meanings:
BFE      Base flood elevation
BMP      Best management practices
CFR      Code of federal regulations
CLOMA    Conditional letter of map amendment
CLOMR    Conditional letter of map revision
COE      United States army corps of engineers
CWA      Clean water act
EPA      U.S. environmental protection agency
FEMA     Federal emergency management agency
FIRM     Flood insurance rate map
FIS      Flood insurance study
FPE      Flood protection elevation
FQI      Floristic quality index
HHW      Household hazardous waste
IDNR-OWR Illinois department of natural resources, office of water resources
IDPH     Illinois department of public health
IEPA     Illinois environmental protection agency
MS4      Municipal separate storm sewer system
NFIP     National flood insurance program
NPDES    National pollutant discharge elimination system
NRCS     Natural resources conservation service
OHWM     Ordinary high water mark
SFHA     Special flood hazard area
SWCD     Soil and water conservation district
SWP3     Stormwater pollution prevention plan
USDA     U.S. department of agriculture
 
(Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-6: DEFINITIONS:
This section
8-4-5 contains specific words and terms that shall have the following meanings
as set forth, except where otherwise specifically indicated. Words and terms
not defined shall have the meanings that are indicated in a common dictionary
definition.
ADMINISTRATIVE VIOLATION: An administrative violation of this section
8-4-5 that occurs when rules and procedures regarding permit applications and
stormwater management permits are not followed.
ADMINISTRATOR: The person designated by the permitting authority to administer
and enforce this section
8-4-5. The administrator may delegate and share this function with a designee.
AGRICULTURAL LAND: Characteristics of the property that lend itself to an
agricultural designation such as prime farmland, livestock operation, horse
barn or similar function and is currently zoned Ag.
AGRICULTURAL SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE: A water management technique driven by
economic and safety concerns, where the rate at which surplus groundwater
should be removed is determined primarily by the moisture/air requirements of
the vegetation and through the use of farm tiles throughout the property.
APPLICABLE ENGINEERING PRACTICE: Procedures, methods or materials recommended
in standard engineering textbooks or references as suitable for the intended
purpose.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application for a permit under this
section
8-4-5.
BFE OR BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BMP OR BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES: A measure used to control the adverse
stormwater related effects of development, and includes structural devices such
as swales, filter strips, infiltration trenches and site runoff storage basins,
designed to remove pollutants, reduce runoff rates and volumes and protect
aquatic habitats, as well as nonstructural approaches, such as public education
efforts to prevent the dumping of household chemicals into storm drains.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in a given year calculated during a 100-year rain event.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUFFER: An area of predominantly deep rooted native vegetated land adjacent to
channels, wetlands, lakes or ponds for the purpose of stabilizing banks,
increasing infiltration, and reducing contaminants (including sediments), in
stormwater that flows into such areas.
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes, prefabricated
building and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational
vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days per year.
BULLETIN 70: "Frequency Distributions And Hydroclimatic Characteristics Of
Heavy Rainstorms In Illinois", by Floyd Huff and James Angel of the Illinois
state water survey (1989).
BYPASS FLOWS: Stormwater runoff from upstream properties tributary to a
property's drainage system but not under its control.
CLOMA OR CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT: FEMA's comment on a proposed
structure or group of structures that would, upon construction, be located on
existing natural ground above the base (1 percent annual chance) flood
elevation on a portion of a legally defined parcel of land that is partially
inundated by the base flood.
CLOMR OR CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION: FEMA's comment on a proposed
project that would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic or hydraulic
characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the modification of the
existing regulatory floodway, the effective base flood elevations, or the
special flood hazard area (SFHA).
COE: The United States army corps of engineers.
CERTIFIED COMMUNITY: A community certified under section
8-4-5-17 of this chapter.
CHANNEL: Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, flowage, slough, ditch,
conduit, culvert, gully, ravine, wash, or natural or manmade drainageway which
has a definite bed and bank or shoreline, in or into which surface, ground
water, effluent, or industrial discharges flow either perennially or
intermittently.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks, and includes damming, rip rapping
(or other armoring), widening, deepening, straightening, relocating, lining and
significant removal of bottom or woody rooted vegetation, but does not include
the clearing of debris or removal of trash or dredging to previously documented
thalweg elevations and side slopes.
CHROMA: The relative purity, strength or saturation of a color; directly
related to the dominance of the determining wavelength of the light and
inversely related to the grayness; one of the three (3) variables of color.
COMMERCIAL: Having the qualities associated with the transaction of business
with the public at large where the traffic generated warrants construction of
site improvements.
COMMITTEE: The Grundy County stormwater management committee.
COMMUNITY: Grundy County or any municipality within Grundy County.
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An excavated, hydrologically and hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage created to offset the loss of existing flood storage.
CONTROL STRUCTURE: A structure designed to control the rate of flow that passes
through the structure given a specific upstream and downstream water surface
elevation.
COUNTY: Grundy County, Illinois.
COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR: The person appointed by the county board who will manage
and enforce the contents of this section
8-4-5.
CRITICAL DURATION: The duration of a storm event that results in the greatest
peak runoff.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of
the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk. Examples of critical facilities where flood
protection should be required include: emergency services facilities (such as
fire and police stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care
facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone
switching stations or electrical transformers), and hazardous material storage
facilities (chemical, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
DAM: Any obstruction, wall embankment or barrier, together with any abutments
and appurtenant works, constructed to store or divert water or to create a pond
(not including underground water storage tanks).
DEPARTMENT: The Grundy County land use department.
DEPRESSIONAL STORAGE: The volume contained below a closed contour on a one foot
(1') contour interval topographical map, the upper elevation of which is
determined by the invert of a surface gravity outlet.
DESIGN WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The high water level elevation of a site runoff
control facility for a selected storm event, described in terms of the
probability of occurring once within a given number of years, for which site
runoff control facilities are designed.
DETENTION BASIN: A facility constructed to provide for the temporary storage of
stormwater runoff with a controlled release rate.
DEVELOPER: A person who creates or causes a development.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to the land which includes:
   A.   The construction, reconstruction or replacement of a building or an
addition to a building;
   B.   The installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges or
similar projects;
   C.   Drilling and mining;
   D.   The construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams, or
culverts;
   E.   Channel modifications, filling, dredging, grading, clearing,
excavating, paving, or other nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface;
   F.   The storage of materials and the deposit of solid or liquid waste;
   G.   The installation of a mobile home on a site, the preparation of a site
for a mobile home, or the installation of a recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days;
   H.   Any wetland impact; and
   I.   Any other activity of man that might change the direction, height or
velocity of stormwater flowing through and from a property.
Development however does not include:
   A.   Maintenance and repair of existing buildings or facilities that is not
considered a substantial improvement;
   B.   Repair or replacement of an existing parking lot outside the floodplain
provided that no new impervious surfaces are added, there is no increase in
peak flows, and there is no change in the location of the stormwater discharge;
   C.   Resurfacing of streets and highways outside the floodplain;
   D.   Resurfacing of publicly owned streets and highways within the
floodplain provided the difference between the elevation of the road surface
after resurfacing and the elevation of the road surface on the effective date
hereof is not more than two inches (2");
   E.   For agricultural uses, maintenance of existing drainage systems for the
limited purpose of maintaining cultivated areas and crop production; or
   F.   For agricultural uses and/or improvements undertaken pursuant to a
written NRCS conservation plan, not located in a floodplain or floodway.
DRAINABLE WATER: Water that readily drains from soil under the influences of
gravity.
DRAINAGE AREA: The land area above a given point that may contribute runoff
flow at that point from rainfall.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY ATTACHED: A building or portion thereof containing three
(3) or more dwelling units that are attached to at least one other dwelling
unit, not including lodging, hotels and motels.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED: A dwelling containing one dwelling unit only
and is not connected to any other dwelling unit.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY ATTACHED: A dwelling containing two (2) dwelling units
attached to one another.
DWELLING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and forming
a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
EFFECTIVE DATE: Grundy County adopted date by the county board.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: A form published by FEMA used to certify the base flood
elevation and the lowest elevation of usable space to which a building has been
constructed.
EPHEMERAL STREAM: A stream whose bed elevation does not intersect the
groundwater table and carries flow only during and immediately after a runoff
producing rainfall event.
EROSION: The process whereby soil is detached by the action of water or wind.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: The federal emergency management agency and its regulations at 44 CRF 9-
79, effective September 29, 1989, as amended.
FPE OR FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION: The BFE plus two feet (2') of freeboard (or
3 feet of freeboard along the Illinois River and within its backwater zone) or
100-year design water surface elevation of any adjacent stormwater facility
plus two feet (2') of freeboard, whichever is higher.
FQI OR FLORISTIC QUALITY INDEX: The parameter related to the number of native
plant species present, as defined by Floyd Swink and Gerald Wilhelm in "Plants
Of The Chicago Region", 4th edition (1994) or by Gerald Wilhelm and Linda
Masters in "Floristic Quality Assessment And Application Computer Programs For
The 22-County Chicago Region", conservation design forum (2000).
FARMED WETLANDS: Wetlands that have been identified as farmed wetlands as part
of a certified wetland determination performed by the applicant's engineers
according to "National Food Security Act Manual" methodology.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves or the unusual
and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: A frequency normally expressed as a period of years, based
upon a percent chance of occurrence in any given year from statistical analysis
during which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or
exceeded, as in the 2-year flood frequency has a fifty percent (50%) chance of
occurrence in any given year and the 100-year flood frequency has one percent
(1%) chance of occurrence in any given year.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the designated
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if applicable, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): These two (2) terms are
synonymous. Those lands that are subject to a one percent (1%) or greater
chance of flooding in any given year. The floodplains of the county are
generally identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Grundy
County prepared by the federal emergency management agency and dated August 2,
2012. Floodplain also includes those areas of known flooding as identified by
the community.
FLOODPROOF: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes
or adjustments to structures or property which reduce or eliminate flood damage
to real estate, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by FEMA that is issued to certify
that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry
floodproofed to the FPE.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base
flood. The floodway for the floodplains of the Illinois River, Kankakee River,
Des Plaines River, Mazon River, East Fork Mazon River and East Fork Mazon River
Tributary and Aux Sable Creek, Nettle Creek, East Fork Nettle Creek, East Fork
Nettle Tributary, Gooseberry Creek, West Fork Gooseberry Creek and Claypool
Ditch shall be delineated on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Grundy
County prepared by FEMA and dated August 2, 2012. The floodways for each of the
remaining floodplains of Grundy County shall be according to the best data
available from the federal, state, or other sources.
FLOODWAY CONVEYANCE: The measure of the flow carrying capacity of the floodway
section and is defined using Manning's equation:
      K = (1.49/n)(AR)2/3
   Where:
   n = Manning's roughness factor
   A = The effective area of the cross section
   R = The ratio of the wetted area to the wetted perimeter
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
FUNCTIONAL: A facility performs its primary purpose but may not be completed.
GROUNDWATER: Water that is located within soil or rock below the surface of the
earth.
GROUNDWATER CONTROL SYSTEM: A designed system which may consist of tiles,
underdrains, french drains or other appropriate stormwater facilities whose
purpose is to lower the groundwater table to a predictable elevation throughout
the year.
HEMIMARSH: An isolated wetland dominated on the edges by tall emergent
vegetation with an interior area of shallow open water.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: A structure or site that is: a) listed individually in the
national register of historic places, or predominantly determined by the
secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing in
the national register; b) certified or preliminarily determined by the
secretary of the interior as contributing to a historic district or a district
determined by the secretary to qualify as registered historic district; c)
individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the Illinois
historic preservation agency; or d) individually listed on a local inventory of
historic places that has been certified by the Illinois historic preservation
agency.
HYDRAULICALLY CONNECTED IMPERVIOUS AREA: Those areas of concrete, asphalt and
gravel that, along with building roof surfaces, convey flows directly to an
improved drainage system consisting of storm sewers or paved channels and
includes roadways drained by curb and gutter and storm sewers and driveways
hydraulically connected to those roadways, but does not include roof surfaces
which discharge to unpaved surfaces which absorb and filter stormwater runoff
nor roadways whose primary conveyance is through open ditches and swales.
HYDRAULICALLY EQUIVALENT COMPENSATORY STORAGE: Compensatory storage either
adjacent to the floodplain fill or not located adjacent to the development but
which can be shown by hydrologic and hydraulic analysis to be equivalent to
compensatory storage located adjacent to the development.
HYDRAULICS: The science and study of the mechanical behavior of water in
physical systems and processes.
HYDROGRAPH: A graph or tabulation showing flow rate with respect to time for a
given location on a channel or conduit.
HYDROLOGICALLY DISTURBED: An area where the land surface has been cleared,
grubbed, compacted or otherwise modified that changes runoff, volumes, rates or
direction.
HYDROLOGY: The science of the behavior of water, including its dynamics,
composition and distribution in the atmosphere, on the surface of the earth and
underground.
IDNR-OWR: The Illinois department of natural resources, office of water
resources, or its duly authorized designee.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any manmade, hard surfaced area that does not readily
permit the infiltration and absorption of stormwater runoff, including, but not
limited to, roofs, roads, drives, parking lots, sidewalks, path and graveled
areas.
INFILTRATION: The passage or movement of water into the soil surface.
INTERIM WATERSHED PLAN: A regional study of a specific watershed that does not
address the entire range of purposes, goals and objectives outlined in the
plan.
INTERMITTENT STREAM: A stream whose bed intersects the groundwater table for
only a portion of the year on average or any stream that flows continuously for
at least one month out of the year, but not the entire year.
ISOLATED WETLANDS: A wetland that does not have an identifiable surface water
connection to other waters of the U.S.
LOMA OR LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT: The official determination by FEMA that a
specific structure is not in a regulatory floodplain and amends the effective
FIRM.
LOMR OR LETTER OF MAP REVISION: FEMA's modification to an effective flood
insurance rate map (FIRM). LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of
physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a
flooding source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory
floodway, the effective base flood elevations, or the SFHA. The LOMR officially
revises the FIRM, and sometimes the flood insurance study (FIS) report, and,
when appropriate, includes a description of the modifications. The LOMR is
generally accompanied by an annotated copy of the affected portions of the FIRM
or FIS report.
LAKE: A body of water two (2) or more acres in size which retains water
throughout the year.
LINEAR WATERS OF THE U.S.: Wetlands along creeks, streams, rivers, ponds, lakes
or impoundments that are hydraulically connected to surface water.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable
nonelevation design requirements of this section
8-4-5.
MAJOR STORMWATER SYSTEM: That portion of a stormwater facility needed to store
and convey runoff at the one hundred (100) year frequency.
MASS GRADING: Development in which the primary activity is a change in
topography affected by the movement of earth materials.
MINOR STORMWATER SYSTEM: All infrastructure including curb and gutter, storm
sewers, culverts, roadside ditches, subsurface drainage systems intended to
convey stormwater runoff at the one hundred (100) year frequency.
MITIGATION: Measures taken to offset negative impacts from development in
waters of the U.S. including wetlands or the floodplain.
MOBILE HOME (Also Recognized As A MANUFACTURED HOME): A structure designed for
permanent habitation, and so constructed as to permit its transport on wheels,
temporarily or permanently attached to its frame, from the place of
construction to the location, or subsequent locations, at which it is intended
to be a permanent home, and designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a
dwelling place for one or more persons.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A lot, parcel or tract of land developed with facilities for
accommodating two (2) or more mobile homes, provided each mobile home contains
a kitchen, flush toilet, and shower or bath; and such park shall be for use
only by nontransient dwellers remaining continuously for more than one month,
whether or not a charge is made. It shall not include a sales lot in which
automobiles or unoccupied mobile homes or other trailers are parked for the
purpose of inspection or sale, except mobile homes located on a site in the
mobile home park which is occupied or vacant for not more than ninety (90) days
after occupancy may be sold or offered for sale.
MOTTLED ZONE: A layer that is marked with spots or blotches of different color
or shades of color. The pattern of mottling and the size, abundance and color
contrast of the mottles may vary considerably and should be specified in soil
description.
MUNSELL COLOR SYSTEM: A color designation system that specifies the relative
degrees of the three (3) simple variables of color: hue, value and chroma. For
example: 10YR is a color of soil with a hue of 10YR, value = 6 and chroma = 4.
NFIP OR NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM: The federal program codified in title
44 of the code of federal regulations.
NRCS: The United States department of agriculture, natural resources
conservation service.
NET BENEFIT IN WATER QUALITY: The institution of best management practices as
part of a development that when compared to the predevelopment condition can be
judged to reduce downstream sediment of pollutant loadings.
NET WATERSHED BENEFIT: A finding that, when compared to the existing condition,
the development will substantially reduce (more than 10 percent) downstream
peak discharges, will reduce downstream flood stages (more than 0.1 feet), or
will reduce downstream damage to structures occurring in the predevelopment
condition. This finding must be demonstrated by detailed hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis of watersheds on a regional scale, as approved by the
administrator.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced
after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
NONRIVERINE: Areas such as isolated depressional storage areas, ponds and
lakes.
NUISANCE FLOW: Primarily a dry weather flow resulting from groundwater pumped
by individual sump pumps and other human activities not directly related to
rainfall events and surface runoff.
OHWM OR ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK: The point on the bank or shore up to which
the presence and action of surface water is so continuous as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation, or other easily recognized
characteristic.
OBSERVATION STRUCTURES: Structures built on a field tile where the pipe inflow
and outflow is visible upon removal of a lid.
OPEN CHANNEL: A conveyance system with a definable bed and banks carrying the
discharge from field tiles and surface drainage, but does not include grassed
swales within farm fields under agricultural production which are ephemeral in
nature.
OPEN WATER: Surface water in lakes, ponds, impoundments and wetlands devoid of
vegetative cover.
OVERLAND FLOW PATH: A design feature of the major stormwater system which
carries flow in excess of the minor stormwater system design capacity in an
open channel or swale, or as sheet flow or weir flow over a feature designed to
withstand the particular erosive forces involved.
PARCEL: A separate tract of land identified by its own legal description.
PERENNIAL STREAM: A riverine watercourse whose thalweg intersects the
groundwater table continuously and flows throughout the year.
PERMITTING AUTHORITY: The community having jurisdiction under this section
8-4-5 to issue permits.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company,
unincorporated association, trust, municipal corporation, unit of local
government or other government agency or authority, or any combination of any
of the foregoing.
PLANT COMMUNITIES: Groups of plants with similar habitat requirements and
planting regimes.
POND: A body of water less than two (2) acres in size which retains a normal
water level year round.
PRIMARY GRAVITY OUTLET: The outlet structure designed to meet the release rate
requirements of this section
8-4-5, the invert (lowest elevation) of which shall be considered the high
water elevation for required stormwater retention.
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: An engineer registered in the state of Illinois under
the Illinois professional engineering practice act of 1989, 225 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 325/1 et seq.
PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered in the state of Illinois
under the Illinois professional land surveyor act of 1989, 225 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 330/1 et seq.
PUBLIC FLOOD EASEMENT: An easement acceptable to the appropriate jurisdictional
body that meets the regulations of IDNR-OWR, the department and the community
and provides legal assurances that all areas subject to flooding in the created
backwater of the development will remain open to allow flooding.
RECORD DRAWINGS: Drawings prepared, signed and sealed by a professional
engineer or professional land surveyor representing the final record of the
actual in place elevations, locations of structures and topography.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis.
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size.
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REDEVELOPMENT: Development on a developed site devoted to an existing urban
land use that the stormwater from which discharges into an existing stormwater
facility either owned or maintained by a unit of local government, or
discharges directly onto a regulatory floodplain; redevelopment includes the
widening of an existing street or highway owned by a unit of local government.
REGISTERED STRUCTURAL ENGINEER: An engineer licensed under the Illinois
structural engineering practice act of 1989, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes
340/1 et seq.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
RESTRICTIVE BRIDGE OR CULVERT: A bridge or culvert that crosses a floodplain
and cannot convey the base flood without causing increases in the upstream
flood profile.
RETENTION FACILITY: A facility which stores stormwater runoff without a gravity
release.
RIVERINE: Related to, formed by or resembling a channel and includes creeks and
rivers.
RUNOFF: The waters derived from melting snow or rain falling within a tributary
drainage basin that exceeds the infiltration capacity of the soils of that
basin.
SEASONAL HIGH GROUNDWATER TABLE: The upper limits of the soil temporarily
saturated with water, being usually associated with spring wetness conditions
which may be indicated by soil mottles with a Munsell color of 2 chroma or
less.
SEDIMENTATION: The process that deposits hydraulically moved soils, debris and
other materials on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or stormwater
drainage systems.
SEDIMENTATION TRAP: A structure or area that allows for the temporary deposit
and removal or disposal of sediment materials from stormwater runoff.
SEEPAGE: The movement of drainable water through soil and rock.
SITE: All of the land contemplated to be part of a coordinated development of
one or more parcels.
SITE RUNOFF STORAGE FACILITY: A manmade structure for the temporary storage of
stormwater runoff (detention) with a controlled release rate.
SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA: An area which consists of a floodplain, regulatory
floodplain, wetland, wetlands mitigation area, stream, river or other water
body.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement, was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alternation affects the
external dimensions of the building.
STORMWATER FACILITY: All ditches, channels, conduits, bridges, culverts,
levees, ponds, natural and manmade impoundments, wetlands, riparian
environment, tile, swales, sewers or other natural or artificial structures or
measures which serve as a means of draining or storing surface water and
groundwater from land.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT: The permit issued under section
8-4-5-11 of this chapter.
STRUCTURE: A manmade change to the land, constructed on or below the ground,
including the construction, reconstruction or placement of a building or any
addition to a building.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred regardless of actual
repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must be included in this
determination. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive
loss damages.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this
section
8-4-5 in which the cumulative percentage of improvements:
   A.   Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started, or
   B.   Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
"Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
The term does not include:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or the Illinois register of historic places, provided that the
alteration does not preclude the structure's continued historic designation.
SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE: The removal of excess soil water to control water table
levels at predetermined elevations for structural, environmental or other
reasons in areas already developed or being developed for agricultural,
residential, industrial, commercial or recreational uses.
SURFACE GRAVITY OUTLET: The point at which stormwater runoff is let out of a
basin or depression by flowing via gravity over the surface of the ground or
through a conduit that has a direct and open connection to the surface.
TECHNICAL MANUAL: The manual adopted by Grundy County which refers to this
section
8-4-5 and provides additional explanations and examples to be used by
developers and enforcement organizations.
THALWEG (Also Known As A VALLEY LINE): The line that is drawn to join the
lowest points along the entire length of a streambed or valley in its downward
slope defining its deepest channel.
TOPSOIL: The uppermost part of the soil ordinarily moved in tillage, or its
equivalent in uncultivated soils.
TRANSITION SECTION: The reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows
from a narrow cross section, or where water is directed into a narrow portion
of a stream.
USABLE SPACE: Space used for dwelling, storage, utilities or other beneficial
purposes and includes basements.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be in full
compliance with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation until such time
as that documentation is provided.
WATER TABLE: The upper limit of a free water surface in a saturated soil or
underlying material.
WATERS OF THE U.S.: All interstate and intrastate waters and their tributaries
including lakes, rivers, streams including intermittent stream, mudflows,
sandflats, wetlands, sloughs, prairie potholes, wet meadows, lakes, natural
ponds and all impoundments of the foregoing.
WATERSHED: All land drained by, or contributing water to the same stream, lake,
stormwater facility or draining to a point.
WATERSHED CHARACTERISTICS: The land use, physiology, habitat, climate, drainage
system and community profile of a watershed.
WATERSHED PLAN: A study and evaluation of an individual drainage basin's
stormwater management, floodplain management, water quality and flood control
needs capabilities adopted by Grundy County.
WETLAND: Defined by COE in the "1988 Corps Of Engineers Wetland Delineation
Manual, Technical Report Y-87-1", U.S. army engineers waterways experiment
station, Vicksburg, Mississippi (the "1987 manual"), or other federally
recognized methodology.
WETLAND IMPACT: A. The dredging or filling of any wetland having an FQI greater
than 25; or
   B.   The dredging or filling of any other wetland if:
      1.   The effect would be that cumulatively, since the effective date
hereof, 0.10 acre (4,356 square feet) or more of the wetlands on the site have
been dredged or filled and taking into account all prior dredging or filling of
such wetland; and
      2.   Such wetland is not then regulated by COE; or
      3.   Such dredging or filling is not an approved impact under a
conservation plan administered by any federal agency under the food security
act, as amended (16 USC section 3801 et seq.).
WETLAND MITIGATION: The creation and long term maintenance of wetlands to
offset wetland impacts from development.
WETLAND MITIGATION BANK: One or more parcels in Grundy County either approved
by COE or the administrator of this plan, where wetlands and/or other aquatic
resources are restored, created, enhanced, or in exceptional circumstances,
preserved expressly for the purpose of providing compensatory mitigation in
advance of authorized impacts to similar resources.
WETLAND MITIGATION FACILITY: A parcel in Grundy County specifically dedicated
for the creation and long term maintenance of wetlands and other aquatic
resources including any area designated as a compensatory storage facility when
such area is used for wetland mitigation. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-7: REQUIREMENTS FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:
8-4-5-7-1: GENERAL INFORMATION:
All developments shall meet the requirements of sections
8-4-5-8-1,
8-4-5-8-2, and
8-4-5-8-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-7-2: DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
Developments shall comply with section
8-4-5-8-4 of this chapter after the effective date hereof if:
   A.   Two (2) or more single-family detached dwellings are to be constructed
on a site having five (5) or more acres;
   B.   A two-family attached, multi-family attached dwelling, condominium,
apartment or other residential building comprised of more than two (2) units is
to be constructed on a site one acre or more in size;
   C.   Any nonresidential development on a site one acre or more in size,
unless such development consists solely of the installation, repair or
replacement of the underground or overhead lines of a public utility within a
public right of way;
   D.   Redevelopment on a site one acre or more in size resulting in twenty
five thousand (25,000) square feet or more of additional impervious area in
aggregate from the effective date hereof; or
   E.   Road development after the effective date hereof in rights of way under
the ownership or control of a unit of local government resulting in two (2)
acres or more of additional impervious area; or
   F.   The repair or replacement of an existing parking lot or privately owned
road within the floodplain results in any additional impervious surface, an
increase in peak flows, a change in the location of the stormwater discharge,
or an increase in the elevation of the parking or driving surface. (Ord. 2016-
003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-7-3: DEVELOPER OF A REDEVELOPMENT ASKS FOR FEE IN LIEU:
The developer of a redevelopment may ask that a fee in lieu of site runoff
storage be approved under section
8-4-5-19 of this chapter and that the requirements of subsection
8-4-5-8-4F of this chapter be waived if:
   A.   The drainage plan will not increase peak discharges from the site, nor
change the existing conveyance of off site flow; and
   B.   The drainage plan provides a net benefit in water quality compared to
the existing development. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-7-4: DEVELOPER OF A DEVELOPMENT ASKS FOR FEE IN LIEU:
The developer of a development consisting only of mass grading may ask that a
fee in lieu of site runoff storage be approved under section
8-4-5-19 of this chapter if:
   A.   There is no net increase in impervious surfaces; and
   B.   No structure is constructed, reconstructed or improved; and
   C.   The quality of site runoff is improved. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-8: GENERAL STORMWATER REQUIREMENTS:
8-4-5-8-1: DEVELOPMENT:
No development shall result in any new or additional expense to any person
other than the developer for flood protection; or increase flood elevations or
decrease flood conveyance capacity upstream or downstream of the area under the
ownership or control of the developer. This requirement shall not prohibit the
removal or reduction of built obstructions to flow, such as increasing culvert
capacity or lowering roadway elevations. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-8-2: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Stormwater Facilities For The Development: Analysis and design of all
stormwater facilities for the development shall comply with the standards and
criteria established in any applicable watershed plan or interim watershed plan
and are consistent with the technical manual.
   B.   Facilities Within Hazardous Wildlife Separation Zone: Analysis and
design of all stormwater facilities located within the hazardous wildlife
separation zone as defined by the wildlife hazard assessment (herein referred
to as the Morris Municipal Airport and as amended from time to time) shall
comply with the requirements established by the assessment included in
subsection
8-4-5-21A, "Appendix A; Watershed Boundaries", of this chapter. When the
analysis and design of the facility conflicts with the requirements that are
listed in the assessment, the provisions in the assessment shall prevail.
   C.   Building Permits: Stormwater facilities shall be functional before
building permits are issued for residential or nonresidential subdivisions. The
administrator of the plan may make the determination that building permits may
be granted prior to the facilities being functional based on sound engineering.
   D.   Overland Flow Paths: The development shall have an overland flow path
at the downstream limit of the site that will pass the base flood flow without
increasing flood damage. If the upstream drainage area is less than twenty (20)
acres, a storm sewer pipe and inlet sized for the base flood may be constructed
in lieu of providing an overland flow path. Overland flow paths internal to the
site shall be considered as part of the major stormwater system and shall be
designed for conveyance of the base flood (critical duration) without use of
storm sewer capacity at a minimum of one cubic foot per second per tributary
acre, and without damage to structures.
   E.   Protection Of Buildings: All usable space in new buildings or additions
to existing buildings hydraulically connected to a major stormwater system,
site runoff storage facility or overland flow path shall be elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected to the FPE.
   F.   Depressional Storage: The function of existing on site depressional
storage shall be preserved for both on site and off site tributary flows in
addition to required detention. When depressional storage is removed it must be
compensated for in the site runoff storage facility at a one to one (1:1) ratio
provided that off site areas tributary to the existing depressional storage are
routed through the site runoff storage facility. This requirement is in
addition to the site runoff storage required in section
8-4-5-8-4 of this chapter. The administrator may allow the function of
depressional storage to be preserved if the applicant performs detailed pre-
and post-project hydrologic and hydraulic modeling to identify the effect of
the depressional storage on discharges using a two (2) year through one hundred
(100) year critical duration analysis. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-8-3: SITE RUNOFF REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Stormwater facilities shall be required and designed so that runoff
exits the site at the point where it exited prior to development (unless a
change is required and approved in writing by the administrator) and in a
manner so as not to increase flood damage downstream. Concentrated discharges
from new developments must enter conveyance systems capable of carrying the
design flow rate without increasing flood damage, erosion or maintenance costs
downstream.
   B.   Minor stormwater systems shall be sized to convey runoff from the
tributary watershed under fully developed conditions consistent with the design
requirement of the permitting authority.
   C.   Major stormwater systems shall be sized to carry the base flood without
causing additional flood damage.
   D.   Stormwater systems shall properly incorporate and be compatible with
existing subsurface and surface discharge systems including agricultural
systems. Designs shall not cause new or increased damage to existing drainage
systems or to existing adjacent or tributary agricultural land uses.
      1.   Off Site Outfall: Agricultural subsurface and surface drainage
systems shall be evaluated with regard to their capacity and capability to
properly convey low flow groundwater and site runoff storage facility release
without new or increased damage to downstream structures and land uses. If the
outfall drain tile and surface drainage systems prove to be inadequate to
handle the design release rate, one of the following solutions shall be used:
         a.   The site stormwater system and off site outfall shall be designed
so that it does not exceed the existing capacity of the downstream drainage
system, or
         b.   Modify the existing systems or construct new systems which will
not conflict with the existing systems and will not impact existing land uses,
or
         c.   Alternate solutions may be submitted to the administrator for
approval.
      2.   On Site: Agricultural drainage systems shall be located and
evaluated. All existing on site agricultural drain tiles not serving a
beneficial use shall be abandoned by trench removal prior to other development
and recorded on engineering details for the project. If any existing drain
tiles continue to drain upland watersheds the developer must maintain drainage
service during construction until new storm sewers can be installed for a
permanent connection.
      3.   Off Site Tributary: Existing drainage systems shall be evaluated
with regard to existing capabilities and reasonable future expansion
capacities. All existing tributary drain tiles shall be incorporated into the
new stormwater system that includes observation structures located at the
limits of the site and shall provide a free flow discharge. Agricultural
tributary surface conveyance shall be accepted by the new development with
consideration given to the water quality and the ability to filter out
sediment.
      4.   Preservation Of Existing Systems: New roadway construction shall
preserve existing subsurface systems within the right of way. Inspection wells
shall be placed in the right of way and tiles found not to be flowing between
inspection wells at the end of construction shall be replaced.
   E.   Design runoff rates shall be calculated using event hydrograph methods.
Acceptable event hydrograph methods are HEC-HMS, HEC-1 (SCS runoff method), and
TR-20 or TR-55 tabular method. Event methods must incorporate the assumptions
contained in this section
8-4-5. Design runoff rates for minor stormwater systems may be calculated using
the rational method if the design watershed is less than twenty (20) acres.
   F.   Any design runoff rate calculation method shall use bulletin 70
northeast sectional rainfall statistics and shall calculate flow from all
tributary areas upstream of the point of design. Peak discharges for conveyance
design purposes shall be based on the critical duration considering the
appropriate rainfall distribution.
   G.   Major and minor stormwater systems shall be located within easements or
rights of way explicitly providing for government access or maintenance of such
facilities by the grantee. New facilities constructed off site pursuant to
subsection D of this section need not comply with this requirement.
   H.   Maximum flow depths for new transverse stream crossing shall not exceed
one foot (1') at the crown of the road during the base flood condition. The
maximum longitudinal flow depth on a roadway shall not exceed six inches (6")
at the crown for flow depth (in feet) and velocity (in feet per second) shall
not exceed four feet (4') per second for the base flood condition.
   I.   Transfers of waters between watersheds (diversions) shall be prohibited
except when such transfers will not violate the provisions of section
8-4-5-8-1 of this chapter and are otherwise lawful. Watersheds for the purposes
of this section shall be the major watershed divides as shown approximately in
subsection
8-4-5-21A, "Appendix A; Watershed Boundaries", of this chapter. Exact watershed
boundaries for a site nearby a boundary shall be determined based on actual
site topography.
   J.   Developments shall incorporate best management practices in accordance
with the clean water act (33 USC section 1251 et seq., as amended) and as
required by the IEPA's national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES)
permit program. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-8-4: SITE RUNOFF STORAGE REQUIREMENTS (DETENTION):
   A.   Calculations Based On Area: The area of hydrological disturbance on the
site shall be used to calculate the required site runoff storage volume. The
tributary area of the site at the point of discharge shall be used to calculate
the allowable release rates of the primary restrictor for the site runoff
storage facility.
   B.   Site Runoff Storage Volume: Unless a more restrictive allowable release
rate has already been established by a watershed plan or interim watershed
plan, the site runoff storage volume required shall be calculated based on
maximum release rates of 0.15 cubic feet per second per acre for the 100-year,
24-hour storm event and 0.04 cubic feet per second per acre for the 2-year, 24-
hour storm event according to methods identified in subsection C of this
section.
   C.   Routing Methods: Event hydrograph routing methods such as HEC-1, HEC-
HMS, and TR-20 or TR-55 tabular method using SCS curve number methodology shall
be used to calculate design runoff volumes for site runoff storage facilities.
Event methods shall incorporate the following assumptions:
      1.   Antecedent moisture condition equals two (2);
      2.   Appropriate Huff rainfall distribution except that SCS type II
distribution is acceptable with TR-55 tabular method only; and
      3.   24-hour duration storm with a one percent (1%) probability (100-
year) of occurrence in any one year as specified by bulletin 70 northeast
sectional rainfall statistics.
   D.   Release Rate: For sites where the undeveloped release rate is less than
the maximum release rate in subsection B of this section, the developed release
rate and corresponding site runoff storage volume shall be based on the
existing undeveloped release rate for the development site.
   E.   Hydraulic Computations: Hydraulic computations for the release
structure must assume backwater conditions up to the 10-year flood elevation on
the adjacent receiving watercourse.
   F.   Retention Requirement:
      1.   The runoff from a 0.75 inch rainfall event over the hydraulically
connected impervious area of a new industrial, commercial or multi-family
development shall be stored below the elevation of the primary gravity outlet
(retention) of the site runoff storage facility. The facility may be designed
to allow for evapotranspiration or infiltration of this volume into a
subsurface drainage system and shall not be conveyed through a direct positive
connection to downstream areas. Retention will not be required if a site runoff
storage facility falls within the hazardous wildlife separation zone as defined
by the wildlife hazard assessment for the Morris Municipal Airport (as amended
from time to time).
      2.   The hydraulically connected impervious area used in the calculation
of required retention volume may be reduced by the administrator if the soils
are undisturbed in situ or prepared to maximize infiltration and deep rooted
grasses or other plants that assist in the promotion of infiltration and
transpiration are planted in areas appropriately dedicated. The reduction in
hydraulically connected impervious area used in the calculation shall be equal
to the area of the development meeting the above soils/planting requirement.
      3.   Subsurface drainage systems may be designed as a component of the
retention portion of the site runoff storage basin to assist in infiltration in
accordance with the following criteria:
         a.   No such subsurface drainage pipe shall be located within ten feet
(10') of drainage pipes directly connected to the site runoff storage basin;
         b.   For purposes of meeting the maximum subsurface drainage
requirements, flow control orifices and weirs may be incorporated into the
design; and
         c.   The design shall be consistent with the methodologies and intent
of the Grundy County "Stormwater Technical Manual" (hereafter referred to as
the technical manual).
   G.   Characteristics Of Facilities: Site runoff storage facilities shall be
designed and constructed with the following characteristics:
      1.   At least one foot (1') of freeboard above the 100-year design water
surface elevation shall be required within the storage facility.
      2.   Storage facilities shall be accessible and easily maintained.
      3.   All design site runoff storage volume shall be provided above the
seasonal high groundwater table or the invert elevation of the groundwater
control system.
      4.   Storage facilities shall be designed to control sediment and
floating debris. Unless specifically approved by the administrator, concrete
lined low flow ditches shall not be used in site runoff storage basins.
      5.   Storage facilities shall minimize the negative impacts of stormwater
runoff into the water quality by incorporating best management practices in the
design of the facilities.
      6.   Storage facilities shall maximize the distance between site runoff
storage inlets and outlets to the extent possible.
      7.   Storage facilities shall be designed so as not to exceed the
existing predevelopment peak runoff rate of the 100-year critical duration
rainfall when the primary restrictor is assumed to be blocked.
      8.   Storage facilities with single pipe outlets shall have a minimum
inside diameter of twelve inches (12"). If design release rates necessitate a
smaller outlet to be constructed perforated risers or flow control orifices
shall be used to prevent smaller openings from clogging.
   H.   Storage Facilities: Storage facilities located within the regulatory
floodplain shall:
      1.   Comply with section
8-4-5-10 of this chapter; and
      2.   Store the required amount of site runoff to meet the release rate
requirement under all stream flow and backwater conditions up to the 10-year
flood elevation on the adjacent receiving watercourse. The administrator may
approve designs which can be substantiated through hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis to provide a new watershed benefit not otherwise realized
by strict application of the requirements set forth in this subsection.
   I.   Facility Requirements: Storage facilities located within the regulatory
floodway will be allowed only as a variance and shall: 1) meet the requirements
for locating storage facilities in the regulatory floodplain; and 2) be
evaluated by performing hydrologic and hydraulic analysis consistent with the
standards and requirements for watershed plans; and 3) provide a net watershed
benefit.
   J.   Requirements For Off Site Locations: Site runoff facilities may be
located off site if: 1) the off site storage facility meets all of the
requirements of this section
8-4-5; and 2) adequate storage capacity in the off site facility is dedicated
to the development; and 3) the development includes a means to convey
stormwater within an easement to the off site storage facility.
   K.   Enlarging Storage Allowed By Variance: Site runoff storage volume
provided by enlarging existing regulatory floodplain storage (on stream runoff
storage) will be allowed only as a variance. The applicant must demonstrate
that flood damage will not be increased and the development will not increase
flood flows for both the 2-year and 100-year floods.
   L.   Structures Built Across Channel: Structures built across the channel to
impound water to meet site runoff storage requirements shall be prohibited on
any perennial stream unless part of a public flood control project with a net
watershed benefit. Those streams appearing as blue on a USGS quadrangle map
shall be assumed to be perennial unless better data is provided by the
developer. In all cases, it must be demonstrated that all such structures will
not cause short term or long term instability and that they are permitted under
a joint application to the IDNR, COE and IEPA. Where such facilities are
approved the applicant must also comply with subsection F of this section.
(Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-9: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL:
8-4-5-9-1: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLANNING:
   A.   Erosion and sediment control planning shall be part of the initial site
planning process. In planning the development of the site, the applicant shall
consider the sensitivity of existing soils to erosion and topographical
features such as steep slopes, stream corridors and special management areas
which must be protected to reduce the amount of erosion and sediment that may
occur. Where appropriate, existing vegetation shall be protected from
disturbance during construction by fencing or other means. In the planning
process the applicant shall also address the following:
      1.   For projects that involve phased construction, existing land cover
for those areas not under current development shall be addressed. If existing
land cover does not consist of appropriate dense vegetation then these phases
shall be planted temporarily to reduce erosion from idle land.
      2.   In planning the erosion and sediment control strategy, preference
shall be given to reducing erosion rather than controlling sediment. In order
to accomplish this, details need to be provided that include the construction
sequence of the phases such that the amount of land area exposed to erosive
forces is minimum for the completion of the project.
   B.   Standards and specifications for erosion and sediment control measures
shall be in accordance with the latest edition of the "Illinois Urban Manual".
Erosion and sediment control planning shall be in accordance with the current
"Procedures And Standards For Urban Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Control In
Illinois" and current "Green Book" chapter 1 through 5 written by the
Northeastern Illinois soil erosion and sedimentation control steering
committee. If there is a conflict between the "Illinois Urban Manual" and the
"Green Book", the "Illinois Urban Manual" shall prevail.
   C.   The runoff from disturbed areas shall not leave the site without first
passing through a sediment control device or measure. This requirement shall
apply to all phases of the construction project and shall include an ongoing
process of implementation of measures and maintenance of those measures.
   D.   In the hydraulic and hydrologic design of major erosion control
measures for tributary drainage areas greater than three (3) acres, such as
sediment basins, traps and diversions, the design frequency shall be
commensurate with the risk of the design event being exceeded. The following
design frequencies shall be regarded as minimum for construction periods as
described below:
      1.   If development is estimated to be completed in less than six (6)
months, the storm event having a fifty percent (50%) chance (2-year event) of
being exceeded in any year shall be used for design purposes.
      2.   If development is estimated to be completed in more than six (6)
months but less than one year, the design frequency for major sediment basins
shall be a rainfall event with a twenty percent (20%) chance (5-year event) of
being exceeded in any one year.
      3.   If development is estimated to take more than one year to complete,
major sediment basins shall be designed for a rainfall event with a ten percent
(10%) chance (10-year event) of being exceeded in any one year.
      4.   All sediment basins shall be designed for a minimum residence time
of ten (10) hours for detained runoff and shall include a volume for sediment
storage reflective of the clean out schedule for the basin.
   E.   The erosion and sediment control plan shall designate a series of
practices which shall be implemented either at the direction of the applicant,
the applicant's on site representative, or upon notification by the
administrator if an inspection of the site indicates a deficiency in soil and
sediment erosion control measures. At a minimum, these measures shall include:
1) sediment basins; 2) sediment traps; 3) diversion swales; 4) silt fences; 5)
temporary seeding; 6) mulching; 7) erosion control blankets; 8) energy
dissipation devices; 9) inlet protection; and 10) stabilize construction
entrance.
   F.   The area of disturbance on site at any one time shall be limited to
twenty (20) acres. An additional twenty (20) acres (a maximum of 40 acres of
disturbance at any 1 time) may be disturbed if necessary to balance out and
fill on site. The administrator may approve a larger area of disturbance
pursuant to a plan for phased construction or after development has begun, if
the developer adequately demonstrates the need. Therefore the administrator may
approve the larger area of disturbance if he/she finds: that adequate temporary
and permanent erosion and sediment control measures can be maintained; and that
the area of disturbance is the smallest practical area consistent with the
intent to limit disturbed area; and the design will minimize the risk of
sediment being introduced into the site runoff and being carried off site. No
additional area may be disturbed without the permission of the administrator
until the previously disturbed areas have been temporarily or permanently
stabilized. All disturbed areas shall be stabilized within fourteen (14) days
of the final grading or when left idle for more than seven (7) days. Maintained
haul roads and the area of sediment basins, site runoff storage facilities,
utility corridors having a maximum width of twenty feet (20') and any
permanently stabilized areas are excluded from this limitation.
   G.   Erosion and sediment control plans shall be in accordance with this
section
8-4-5 and shall include the following:
      1.   Detailed construction phasing plan identifying erosion and sediment
control measures to be in place for each phase shall be provided.
      2.   Erosion and sediment control measures are to be installed initially
prior to stripping existing vegetation or mass grading. Details of this shall
be provided on the plans.
      3.   Permanent stabilization measures shall be identified as such.
      4.   The expected 2-year and 10-year runoff rates from all off site areas
draining into the site shall be identified on the plan.
      5.   Methods for conveying flows through the site during construction
shall be indicated. These methods shall include the temporary and permanent
stabilization measures to be used to reduce velocity and erosion from flow
through the construction zone.
      6.   A maintenance schedule of each measure used shall be indicated on
the plan. As a minimum, all erosion and sediment control measures on site shall
be inspected weekly by the applicant or the applicant's on site representative
or after a one-half inch (1/2") or greater rainfall event and any required
repairs shall be made to keep these measures functional as designed.
      7.   Special management areas and any required buffers shall be indicated
on the erosion and sediment control plan.
   H.   To the extent practicable, proposed ditches and waterways which are to
convey off site flows through the site shall be stabilized upon construction.
Where new waterways are constructed they shall be stabilized to the extent
practicable prior to their use to convey flood flows.
   I.   Stockpiles of soil and other building materials (sand, limestone, etc.)
shall not be placed in special management areas or required buffers. If a
stockpile is to remain in place for more than three (3) days, erosion and
sediment control shall be provided.
   J.   Storm sewer inlets shall be protected with sediment trapping and/or
filter control devices during construction.
   K.   Water pumped or which is otherwise discharged from the site during
construction dewatering shall be filtered and a means provided to reduce
erosion.
   L.   Graveled roads, access drives, parking areas with sufficient width and
length and vehicle wash down facilities if necessary, shall be provided to
prevent soil from being tracked onto public or private roadways. Any soil
tracked onto a public or private roadway shall be removed before the end of
each workday or sooner as directed by the authority maintaining the roadway.
   M.   Temporary stream crossings of intermittent and perennial streams used
only for and during construction shall be designed to convey a 2-year flood
minimum, without overtopping unless a more frequent design event is allowed by
the administrator and will not obstruct the portion of the channel carrying the
base flow. The entire crossing shall be designed to withstand hydrodynamic and
erosive forces up to the base flood event without washing out. Ephemeral
streams shall be crossed at temporary at grade crossings provided that the
crossing point is stabilized with materials resistant to the erosive forces
produced by runoff from the upstream drainage area and the design is approved
by the administrator. All temporary stream crossings shall be completely
removed and the stream restored to its preconstruction condition upon
completion of construction. Restoration shall incorporate appropriate native
vegetation. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10: PROTECTION OF SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREAS:
8-4-5-10-1: DISCLAIMER:
Nothing in this section
8-4-5 purports to alter or affect the regulatory program that is administered
by the IDNR-OWR. Anything in this section
8-4-5 to the contrary notwithstanding, if under the rules and regulations
administered by IDNR-OWR a submittal, review, approval, or need not to be made
to IDNR-OWR. Nothing in this section
8-4-5 shall be construed to impose a requirement that such a submittal be made
or that such a review, approval or permit be obtained from IDNR-OWR. Similarly,
if IDNR-OWR has delegated its regulatory authority to another entity, then
anything in this section
8-4-5 to the contrary notwithstanding, if required by such entity, such
submittal shall be made or such review, approval or permit shall be obtained
from such entity. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-2: STATEWIDE PERMITS:
Development qualifying for any of the self-issuing statewide permits
administered by IDNR-OWR (statewide permits nos. 1 through 14) is similarly
permitted under this section
8-4-5-10. All other provisions of this section
8-4-5 applicable to such development, however, continue to apply. (Ord. 2016-
003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-3: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Purposes: Flood management accomplishes the following purposes:
      1.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
      2.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
      3.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
      4.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and rescue and relief operations;
      5.   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
      6.   To make property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas; and
      7.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of
watercourses and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water
impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and
riparian habitat, provide recreational opportunities, and provide aesthetic
enhancement to the area.
   B.   Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Resulting Damages: Within the
floodway identified on the flood insurance rate map, and within all other
floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the following standards
shall apply:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection B2 of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development, will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat
to public health and safety. The following specific development activities
shall be considered as meeting this requirement:
         a.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting
the conditions of the IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 2.
         b.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 3;
         c.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 4;
         d.   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide
permit no. 5
         e.   Minor, nonobstructive activities meeting the conditions of the
IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 6;
         f.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 7;
         g.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 8;
         h.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 9;
         i.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 10;
         j.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 11;
         k.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 12;
         l.   Temporary construction activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit no. 13; and
         m.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area.
      2.   Other development activities not listed in subsection B1 of this
section may be permitted only if:
         a.   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required), or
         b.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
   C.   Protected Buildings:
      1.   In addition to the state permit and damage prevention requirements
of subsection B of this section, all buildings located in the floodplain shall
be protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This
building protection requirement applies to the following situations:
         a.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet.
         b.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this section
8-4-5. If substantially improved, the existing structure and the addition must
meet the flood protection standards of this section.
         c.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building shall be figured
cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this section
8-4-5. If substantially damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood
protection standards of this section within twenty four (24) months of the date
the damage occurred.
         d.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do
not apply to returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully
occupied before it was removed to avoid flood damage.)
         e.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
         f.   "Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in this
section
8-4-5.
      2.   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
         a.   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
            (1)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above
the flood protection elevation,
            (2)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation,
            (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure,
            (4)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not
incorporated debris or refuse material, and
            (5)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface
drainage from or onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater
management techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
         b.   The building may be elevated in accordance with the following:
            (1)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts,
piles, walls, crawl space, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters.
            (2)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
            (3)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood
protection elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a
licensed professional engineer to ensure hydrostatic flood forces on walls are
automatically equalized by allowing the entry and exit of floodwaters or by
having a minimum of one permanent opening on each wall no more than one foot
(1') above grade with a minimum of two (2) openings. The openings shall provide
a total net area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation, and
            (4)   The foundation and supporting members of all new construction
and substantial improvements shall be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
            (5)   All structural components below the flood protection
elevation shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            (6)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            (7)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space, or
         c.   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below
the flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
            (1)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to
resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
            (2)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade.
            (3)   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood
protection elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest
adjacent exterior grade.
            (4)   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the
interior grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed
four feet (4') at any point.
            (5)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event.
            (6)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage, and
            (7)   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above
the flood protection elevation.
      3.   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
         a.   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
         b.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
         c.   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      4.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this section.
      5.   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
         a.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with subsection C2 of this section, and
         b.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois
mobile home tie-down act issued pursuant to 77 Illinois administrative code
section 870.
      6.   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of
subsection C5 of this section, unless the following conditions are met:
         a.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck,
         b.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times,
         c.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches,
         d.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping,
travel, or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling,
         e.   The vehicle's largest horizontal projections must be no larger
than four hundred (400) square feet,
         f.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated,
         g.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement from the floodplain,
         h.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must
be quick disconnect,
         i.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model, and
         j.   Must either:
            (1)   Entirely be supported by jacks, or
            (2)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires
touching the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the
block to be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
      7.   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted to be constructed
with the lowest floor below the flood protection elevation provided the
following conditions are met:
         a.   The garage or shed must be nonhabitable.
         b.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
         c.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or
have the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
         d.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be
accessory to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
         e.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built
of materials not susceptible to flood damage.
         f.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
         g.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on
each wall not more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of
opening for every one square foot of floor area.
         h.   The garage or shed must be less than fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) in market value or replacement cost whichever is greater or less
than five hundred seventy six (576) square feet (24 feet x 24 feet).
            (1)   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and
overturning.
            (2)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint,
insecticides, fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection
elevation.
            (3)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implication.
   D.   Subdivision Requirements: The certified community shall take into
account hazards, to the extent that they are known, in all official actions
related to land management use and development.
      1.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of this section
8-4-5. Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
         a.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain,
where the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the
applicant shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
         b.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
         c.   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer in the
state of Illinois that the proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the
drainage of surface waters in accordance with the plat act 1 .
      2.   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be
located and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural
streams and channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included
within parks or other public grounds.
   E.   Public Health And Other Standards:
      1.   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development.
In addition to the requirements of subsections C and D of this section, the
following standards apply:
         a.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or
storing chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids,
pollutants, or other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection
elevation unless such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored
storage tank and certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building
constructed according to the requirements of subsection D of this section.
         b.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
         c.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
         d.   New and replacement on site sanitary sewer lines or waste
disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them
or contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
         e.   Critical facilities shall be protected to the 500-year flood
elevation. In addition, all ingress and egress from any critical facility must
be protected to the 500-year flood elevation.
      2.   All other activities defined as "development" shall be designed so
as not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 2016-
003, 3-8-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
8-4-5-10-4: FLOODPLAIN, BFE AND REGULATORY FLOODWAY LOCATIONS:
   A.   Regulatory Floodplain Limits: The BFE shall be delineated on the site
topography to establish the regulatory floodplain limits for regulation under
this section
8-4-5 using the flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) and flood insurance study
(FIS) of Grundy County dated August 2, 2012, by the federal emergency
management agency in accordance with subsection B of this section.
   B.   BFE Determination: The BFE shall be:
      1.   In the case of AE zones on the FIRM, the BFE shall be the one
percent (1%) annual chance flood profile elevation in the FIS, or
      2.   In the case of AH zones on the FIRM, the BFE shall be that elevation
delineated on the FIRM, or
      3.   In the case of AO zones on the FIRM, the BFE shall be that depth
delineated on the FIRM added to the highest adjacent grade or at least two feet
(2') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is provided, or
      4.   The BFE for each of the remaining floodplains delineated as A zones
on the FIRM shall be according to the best data available from federal, state
or other sources.
         a.   Should no other data exist, the BFE should be determined by an
engineering study financed by the applicant and conducted by a professional
engineer using appropriate hydrologic and hydraulic models as follows:
            (1)   Hydrologic models: TR-20, HEC-1, HEC-HMS;
            (2)   Hydraulic models: HEC-2, HEC-RAS, WSP-2; or
            (3)   A technique approved by the administrator and IDNR-OWR.
         b.   Where a channel has a tributary drainage area of six hundred
forty (640) acres or more, the above analysis shall be submitted to IDNR-OWR
for approval.
   C.   Floodway Delineation And Elevations:
      1.   The location of the regulatory floodway shall be as delineated on
the FIRM. Where an interpretation is needed to determine the exact location of
the regulatory floodway boundary, IDNR-OWR shall be contacted.
      2.   General criteria for analysis of flood elevations in the regulatory
floodway are as follows:
         a.   The flood profiles, flows and data from the current applicable
regulatory map must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If the study
data appears to be in error or conditions have changed, FEMA and IDNR-OWR shall
be contacted for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base conditions
data to use. The same Manning's "n" value shall be used for both existing and
proposed conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement obligates a public
entity to maintain the proposed conditions or the land cover is changing from
vegetative to nonvegetative. The administrator shall be copied on all related
correspondence.
         b.   If the BFE at the site is affected by backwater from a downstream
receiving stream with a larger drainage area, the proposed development shall be
shown to meet the requirements of this section with the receiving stream at
both the normal water elevation and the BFE.
         c.   If the applicant is informed by IDNR-OWR, a local government or
private owner that a downstream or upstream restrictive bridge or culvert is
scheduled to be removed, reconstructed or modified, or a regional flood control
project is scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the
next five (5) years, the proposed development shall be analyzed and shown to
meet the requirements of this section for both the existing conditions and the
expected flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control
project is built, removed or modified.
         d.   If the use will result in a change in the location of the
regulatory floodway or a change in the BFE, then no development shall take
place until a CLOMR has been issued by FEMA. Filling, grading, dredging or
excavating may take place upon issuance of a CLOMR by FEMA. No further
development activities shall take place or building permit issued in existing
or proposed floodplain until an LOMR is issued by FEMA. The administrator shall
be copied on all related correspondence.
         e.   In the circumstances listed below and located in a regulatory
floodway, at a minimum, the information set forth below shall be submitted to
IDNR-OWR for its review and approval.
            (1)   Analysis of the flood profile due to a proposed bridge,
culvert crossing or roadway approach;
            (2)   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge, culvert
crossing or roadway approach is not a source of flood damage and the analysis
indicating the proposed flood profile;
            (3)   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage;
            (4)   Stormwater management permits issued to local units of
government for regulatory floodway and floodplain development;
            (5)   IDNR-OWR will issue permits for any IDNR-OWR, state, federal
or community projects for activities or developments that are located within
the floodway. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-5: GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The following general performance standards are applicable to all development
in a regulatory floodplain. The standards of this section apply except when
superseded by more stringent requirements in the following sections:
   A.   All development in regulatory floodplain, except as allowed in
subsection
8-4-5-10-3B and section
8-4-5-10-11 of this chapter, shall comply with the compensatory storage volume
standards of section
8-4-5-10-8 of this chapter.
   B.   For all projects involving a channel modification, fill, stream
maintenance or a levee, the flood conveyance and storage capacity of the
regulatory floodplain shall not be reduced.
   C.   If the proposed development would result in a change in the regulatory
floodplain or BFE the applicant shall obtain a CLOMR from FEMA prior to
development followed by an LOMR from FEMA following development. No buildings
may be built in the existing or proposed regulatory floodplain unless the
building meets all the building protection standards that are listed within
subsection
8-4-5-10-3C of this chapter. Proposed changes to the regulatory floodway
delineation and the BFE must also be submitted to the IDNR-OWR for their
approval.
   D.   Prior to the commencement of any construction, modification or removal
of a dam, the developer shall obtain an IDNR-OWR dam safety permit or letter
from the IDNR-OWR stating that a permit is not required.
   E.   For public flood control projects sections
8-4-5-10-3 through
8-4-5-10-13 of this chapter will be deemed met if the applicant demonstrates to
IDNR-OWR and the stormwater committee:
      1.   By hydraulic and hydrologic modeling that the proposed project will
not singularly or cumulatively result in increased flood heights outside the
project site or that any increases will be contained in easements for all flood
events up to and including the base flood event;
      2.   That the project will be operated and maintained by a public entity;
      3.   That the project will reduce flood damage to an existing building or
structure.
Nothing in this section precludes the design, engineering, construction or
financing, in whole or in part, of a public flood control project by persons
who are not public entities. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-6: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Structures classified as nonconforming structures, according to chapter 12 of
this title, that are damaged by flood, fire, wind or other disaster are subject
to the requirements of this section
8-4-5 in addition to the requirements of chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 2016-
003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-7: LOWEST OPENING:
For proposed structures located outside the regulatory floodplain, the lowest
opening shall be above the FPE (unless allowed in accordance with the
regulations stated in subsection
8-4-5-10-3C of this chapter), including doors, accessways and window wells as
depicted on the building plans reviewed and enforced by the building and zoning
official. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-8: COMPENSATORY STORAGE VOLUME STANDARDS:
The following standards apply within the regulatory floodplain:
   A.   Hydraulically equivalent compensatory storage volume will be required
for development in a riverine regulatory floodplain and shall be at least equal
to the regulatory floodplain flood storage volume displaced multiplied by 1.5
for unincorporated areas and 1.0 within the incorporated areas. The storage
volume displaced below the existing 10-year frequency flood elevation must be
replaced below the proposed 10-year frequency flood elevation. The storage
volume displaced above the 10-year existing frequency flood elevation must be
replaced above the proposed 10-year frequency flood elevation. The additional
compensatory flood storage required beyond a one to one (1:1) ratio may be
placed above or below the 10-year flood elevation.
   B.   Compensatory storage volume for development in a nonriverine regulatory
floodplain area that is also adjacent to a lake shall be equal to the storage
volume displaced.
   C.   Compensatory storage volume requirements for development in a
nonriverine regulatory floodplain that is not adjacent to a lake shall be
replaced in accordance with the requirements for the loss of depressional
storage in subsection
8-4-5-8-2F of this chapter.
   D.   Compensatory storage areas shall be designed to drain freely and openly
to the channel and shall be located adjacent to the development. This standard
does not apply to nonriverine regulatory floodplain or the replacement of
depressional storage.
   E.   A recorded covenant running with the land shall be required to maintain
the compensatory storage volume in areas modified to provide compensatory
storage volume. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-9: DEVELOPMENT IN THE FLOODWAY:
Only development meeting the requirements of subsection
8-4-5-10-3B of this chapter shall be permitted in a regulatory floodway and
shall also comply with all other applicable provisions of this section
8-4-5. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-10: RIVERINE FLOODPLAIN WITHOUT A DELINEATED FLOODWAY:
These standards apply to riverine regulatory floodplains without a delineated
floodway.
   A.   The applicant shall obtain approval from IDNR-OWR for development of
more than five (5) acres or subdivisions of more than fifty (50) lots located
entirely or partly within the regulatory floodplain (without a delineated
regulatory floodway).
   B.   The development shall not singularly or cumulatively result in an
obstruction of flood flows or potential flood damages outside the site due to
an increase in flood heights, velocities or loss of floodplain area storage.
   C.   If the riverine floodplain without a delineated floodway is in a zone A
with no BFEs shown, then a professional engineer shall submit a study that:
      1.   Determines a BFE and demonstrates that the proposed development will
maintain the existing conditions conveyance, will not increase flood
velocities, will not increase flood profiles and will compensate for any lost
floodplain storage in accordance with section
8-4-5-10-8 of this chapter; or
      2.   Shows that the proposed development will meet the requirements for
regulatory floodplains in sections
8-4-5-10-3 through
8-4-5-10-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-11: BRIDGE AND CULVERT STANDARDS:
These standards are for the reconstruction, modification or new construction of
bridges, culvert crossings and roadway approaches that are located within the
regulatory floodplain.
   A.   A proposed new structure shall not result in an increase of upstream
flood stages greater than 0.1 foot when compared to the existing conditions for
all flood events up to and including the base flood event unless contained
within the channel banks or recorded easements. The evaluation must be
submitted to IDNR-OWR for review and issuance of a permit.
   B.   If the proposed new structure will increase upstream flood stages
greater than 0.1 foot, the applicant must contact IDNR-OWR for a dam safety
permit or waiver. The administrator shall be copied on all related
correspondence.
   C.   A restrictive bridge or culvert may be altered to increase the
conveyance of the base flood if an impact analysis is completed and approved in
writing by the administrator and all other required regulatory approvals are
obtained.
   D.   Velocity increases must be mitigated by use of appropriate measures to
avoid scour, erosion and sedimentation at the structure.
   E.   For modification or replacement of existing structures in a regulatory
floodway, the existing structure must first be evaluated in accordance with
this section
8-4-5 to determine if the existing structure is a source of flood damage. If
the structure is a source of flood damage, the applicant's engineer shall
justify allowing the damage to continue and evaluate the feasibility of
relieving the structure's impact. Modifications to or replacement of
structures, other than a restrictive bridge or culvert in subsection C of this
section shall not increase flood stages compared to the existing condition for
all flood events up to and including the base flood event. The evaluation must
be submitted to IDNR-OWR for review and approval before a permit is issued. The
administrator shall be copied on all related correspondence.
   F.   The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the bridge showing
the existing condition and proposed regulatory profile must be submitted to
IDNR-OWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required.
   G.   Construction vehicles shall cross streams by the means of existing
bridges or culverts. Where an existing crossing is not available, a temporary
crossing, for which a permit or waiver has been issued by IDNR-OWR, shall be
constructed in which:
      1.   The approach roads will be six inches (6") or less above existing
grade;
      2.   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing up the
water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile or
outfall;
      3.   The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least two feet
(2') below the top of the lowest bank;
      4.   Any fill in the channel shall be nonerosive material, such as riprap
or gravel; and
      5.   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed within one
year after installation, unless an extension of time is granted by the
administrator. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-12: REQUIREMENTS FOR WETLAND DELINEATION:
   A.   Before any development in or near waters of the U.S., or in or near a
wetland delineated on the NRCS wetland inventory maps, U.S. fish and wildlife
service national wetland inventory map or if administrator considers that a
wetland is present through visual inspection, a written report identifying and
evaluating the boundaries, location, limits, area and quality of all on site
wetlands shall be submitted. The presence and limits of wetland areas shall be
determined by a wetland delineation conducted in accordance with the "1987
Corps Of Engineers Wetlands Delineation Manual". Wetland delineation under this
section shall be valid for three (3) years. The presence of farmed wetlands
shall be determined by a farmed wetland delineation conducted in accordance
with the "National Food Security Act Manual" methodology.
   B.   Before any development on agricultural land, in addition to the on site
delineation required under the provisions listed in subsection A of this
section, a farmed wetland delineation conducted in accordance with the
"National Food Security Act Manual" methodology must be performed.
   C.   The quality of the wetlands shall be evaluated based upon the flora
quality index (FQI).
   D.   The approximate location, extent and relative quality of wetlands
within fifty feet (50') of the site shall be identified and included in the
written report if the wetland is downstream of the development such that the
runoff could negatively affect the quality or health of the wetland. The
location and extent of such off site wetlands shall be determined by using the
first of the following documents or procedures pertaining to such wetlands at
the time of development:
      1.   Site specific delineation;
      2.   Wetlands identified in watershed plans or ADID studies. If such
plans are not available, then;
      3.   Wetlands identified in interim watershed plans. If such plans are
not available, then;
      4.   Wetlands identified on NRCS wetlands inventory maps. If such maps
are not available, then;
      5.   Wetlands identified on the United States fish and wildlife service
national wetlands inventory maps.
   E.   Final FQI assessments made before June 1 or after October 15 unless
allowed at the discretion of the administrator, shall be considered to be
preliminary. Buffer requirements shall be based upon such assessments. (Ord.
2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-13: MITIGATION TO BE LOCAL:
All wetland mitigation required under a COE section 404 permit for wetland
disturbances in the county, shall be provided for. All wetland mitigation
required under this section
8-4-5 for wetland impacts in the county shall be provided for in the county.
All wetland mitigation required under this section
8-4-5 for wetland impacts in any other county may be provided in such county or
in this county. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-14: WETLAND PRESERVATION DURING DEVELOPMENT:
Preserved wetlands shall be protected during development such that an FQI
calculated upon completion of the project or two (2) years after the
commencement of development, whichever is later, will not be more than two (2)
points less than the FQI originally calculated. The developer shall mitigate
for any wetland not so preserved at the ratio required for in the FQI
originally calculated. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-15: BUFFER REQUIREMENTS:
The requirements of this section are not applicable to wetlands or waters of
the U.S. that, in either case, are below the threshold size limitations for
mitigation requirements under the COE 404 permit program.
   A.   Buffers shall be identified on development plans for all areas defined
as waters of the U.S. Buffer areas are divided into two (2) types, linear
buffers and water body buffers:
      1.   Buffer areas including the protected waters of the U.S. shall be
shown to be within appropriate easements on all new plats. Additionally, the
maintenance requirements for the buffer shall be noted on the plat or included
as a covenant running with the land in any deed which conveys any portion of a
buffer area.
      2.   Buffer widths required as a part of a COE permit supersede the
widths required in this section, unless the width required herein is greater.
If a COE permit is obtained to permanently fill a portion of a wetland and no
buffer is required, the buffer width required by this section
8-4-5 immediately adjacent to the area of impact does not apply. Immediately
adjacent refers to the area within fifteen feet (15') of the area of impact. In
no case shall additional wetland area be filled to provide buffer required by
this section
8-4-5.
      3.   Jurisdictional waters of the U.S. or wetlands may not constitute a
buffer. Buffer widths are to be twenty five feet (25') unless otherwise
determined using the criteria specified below. Buffer width averaging is
acceptable at the discretion of the administrator. When using buffer width
averaging, the width may not be more than twenty percent (20%) less, at the
narrowest point, than the specified width. The buffer width may never be less
than fifteen feet (15'), except in the case of waters of the U.S. or wetlands
with a calculated FQI of less than 7 where the buffer at its narrowest point
may not be less than twelve feet (12') in width.
         a.   Linear buffers shall be designated along waters of the U.S. and
wetlands associated with watercourses, i.e., swales, creeks, streams, rivers,
etc. Refer to subsection A3b of this section in cases where wetlands are
adjacent to and not part of the main channel, i.e., floodplain wetland,
backwater slough, oxbow, bordering wetland complex.
            (1)   When the linear waters of the U.S. have a drainage area
greater than six hundred forty (640) acres, measured at the downstream property
line, or is designated as ADID because of high habitat value or an adjacent
wetland has a calculated FQI greater than 16, the buffer shall be fifty feet
(50').
            (2)   When the linear waters of the U.S. have a drainage area less
than six hundred forty (640) acres, measured at the downstream property line,
the buffer width shall be determined utilizing the formula,
                  X = (A*0.0547) + 15
         Where X equals the buffer width in feet and A equals the drainage area
in acres
         The width calculated by this formula shall be rounded up to the
nearest multiple of 5.
            (3)   If protective measures are installed along the perimeter of a
buffer, the width may be reduced by up to ten percent (10%) immediately
adjacent to the protective measure. The reduction in width that may be applied
due to installation of protective measures may not be applied where buffer
width averaging has been used and the buffer would be more than twenty percent
(20%) less than originally specified. Protective measures may consist of
fencing, sediment basins, biological filter strips or other methods approved by
the administrator.
            (4)   If linear waters of the U.S. are completely or partially
relocated, the newly created portion must be constructed in a manner which will
allow naturalizing to occur, for example, meandering, pools, riffles and the
like. Additionally, all disturbed areas must be replanted for stability with
native vegetation where appropriate, appropriately managed and maintained and
protected by an appropriately sized buffer.
         b.   Water body buffers shall encompass nonlinear bodies of water
meeting the definition of the "waters of the U.S.", including wetlands.
            (1)   If protective measures are installed along the perimeter of a
buffer, the width may be reduced by up to ten percent (10%) immediately
adjacent to the protective measure. The reduction in width that may be applied
due to installation of protective measures may not be applied where buffer
width averaging has been used and the buffer would be more than twenty percent
(20%) less than originally specified. Protective measures may consist of
fencing, sediment basins, biological filter strips or other methods approved by
the administrator.
            (2)   For all nonlinear water bodies or waters of the U.S.
designated as ADID or wetlands with an FQI greater than 16, a minimum buffer
width must be established in accordance with the table, "High Quality Wetlands
- FQI > 16", of this section
            (3)   For non-ADID wetlands with an FQI of 7 to 16, a minimum
buffer width must be established in accordance with the table, "Medium Quality
Wetlands - 7 < FQI < 16", of this section.
            (4)   For non-ADID wetlands with an FQI of less than 7 a minimum
buffer width must be established in accordance with the table, "Low Quality
Wetlands - FQI < 7", of this section.
   B.   Buffers shall be replanted or reseeded using appropriate predominately
native deep rooted vegetation, appropriately managed and maintained following
disturbance. Native plantings shall follow the requirements set forth in
section
8-9-14, "Stormwater Basin Landscaping", of this title.
   C.   The buffer area for all linear and nonlinear waters of the U.S. except
wetlands shall extend from the jurisdictional limits of the waters of the U.S.
ordinary high water mark. The buffer area for wetlands shall extend from the
edge of the approved delineated wetland boundary. A site may contain a buffer
that originates from waters of the U.S. or wetland located on another property.
   D.   Constructed stormwater management features shall not require a buffer
and may constitute as a buffer. The total width of the buffer required may not
be reduced by the installation of a stormwater management facility unless the
facility can be considered a protective measure. If the facility can be
considered to be a protective measure then the width of the buffer may be
reduced as specified in the table, "Medium Quality Wetlands - 7 < FQI < 16", of
this section.
   E.   If a buffer area is disturbed by permitted activities during
construction, the buffer strip shall be stabilized in accordance with
subsection B of this section.
   F.   Access through buffer areas shall be allowed when necessary for
maintenance purposes only. Unless otherwise dedicated for a public purpose,
buffer areas shall remain private property and are not generally accessible to
the public.
   G.   Unrestrained stormwater which has not passed through a site runoff
storage facility shall discharge through an area or structure meeting the
definition of best management practices or buffer before entering
jurisdictional waters of the U.S. or wetland.
      1.   All buffer areas once established shall be maintained free from
development, except as described below:
         a.   A buffer area may be used for passive recreation (e.g.,
birdwatching, walking, jogging, bicycling, horseback riding and picnicking) and
it may contain pedestrian, bicycle or equestrian trails provided that the
created path is no wider than ten feet (10'). Paths leading to a wetland, must
be winding to help prevent erosion.
         b.   Utility maintenance, maintenance of drainage facilities and
drainage easements shall be allowed provided the maintenance activity meets all
other federal, state and local regulations.
         c.   Anchoring and placement of boat docks and piers shall be allowed
provided the structure meets all other federal, state and local regulations.
   H.   Buffer width calculation tables:
HIGH QUALITY WETLANDS - FQI > 16
Buffer Ratio Wetland Area Buffer Area Buffer Width
             (Acres)      (Acres)     (Feet)
Buffer Ratio Wetland Area Buffer Area Buffer Width
             (Acres)      (Acres)     (Feet)
0.5          0.25         0.125       15.0
0.5          0.5          0.25        20.0
0.5          0.75         0.375       25.0
0.5          1.0          0.5         30.0
0.5          1.25         0.625       30.0
0.5          1.5          0.75        35.0
0.5          1.75         0.875       35.0
0.5          2.0          1.0         40.0
0.5          2.25         1.125       40.0
0.5          2.5          1.25        45.0
0.5          2.75         1.375       45.0
0.5          3.0          1.5         50.0
0.5          3.25         1.625       50.0
0.5          3.5          1.75        50.0
0.5          3.75         1.875       50.0
0.5          4.0          2.0         50.0
0.5          4.25         2.125       50.0
0.5          4.5          2.25        50.0
0.5          4.75         2.375       50.0
0.5          5.0 or more  2.5         50.0
 
 
Buffer ratio = % of total wetland area
Wetland area = Total on and off site area of the wetland
Buffer area  = Wetland area x Buffer ratio
Buffer width = Buffer area x 43,560 ÷        
               4                      Wetland area x 43,560
 
MEDIUM QUALITY WETLANDS - 7 < FQI < 16
Buffer Ratio Wetland Area Buffer Area Buffer Width
             (Acres)      (Acres)     (Feet)
Buffer Ratio Wetland Area Buffer Area Buffer Width
             (Acres)      (Acres)     (Feet)
0.4          0.25         0.1         15.0
0.4          0.5          0.2         15.0
0.4          0.75         0.3         20.0
0.4          1.0          0.4         25.0
0.4          1.25         0.5         25.0
0.4          1.5          0.6         30.0
0.4          1.75         0.7         30.0
0.4          2.0          0.8         30.0
0.4          2.25         0.9         35.0
0.4          2.5          1.0         35.0
0.4          2.75         1.1         35.0
0.4          3.0          1.2         40.0
0.4          3.25         1.3         40.0
0.4          3.5          1.4         40.0
0.4          3.75         1.5         45.0
0.4          4.0          1.6         45.0
0.4          4.25         1.7         45.0
0.4          4.5          1.8         45.0
0.4          4.75         1.9         50.0
0.4          5.0 or more  2.0         50.0
 
 
Buffer ratio = % of total wetland area
Wetland area = Total on and off site area of the wetland
Buffer area  = Wetland area x Buffer ratio
Buffer width = Buffer area x 43,560 ÷        
               4                      Wetland area x 43,560
 
LOW QUALITY WETLANDS - FQI < 7
Buffer Ratio Wetland Area Buffer Area Buffer Width
             (Acres)      (Acres)     (Feet)
Buffer Ratio Wetland Area Buffer Area Buffer Width
             (Acres)      (Acres)     (Feet)
0.3          0.25         0.075       15.0
0.3          0.5          0.15        15.0
0.3          0.75         0.225       15.0
0.3          1.0          0.3         20.0
0.3          1.25         0.375       20.0
0.3          1.5          0.45        20.0
0.3          1.75         0.525       25.0
0.3          2.0          0.6         25.0
0.3          2.25         0.675       25.0
0.3          2.5          0.75        25.0
0.3          2.75         0.825       30.0
0.3          3.0          0.9         30.0
0.3          3.25         0.975       30.0
0.3          3.5          1.05        30.0
0.3          3.75         1.125       35.0
0.3          4.0          1.2         35.0
0.3          4.25         1.275       35.0
0.3          4.5          1.35        35.0
0.3          4.75         1.425       35.0
0.3          5.0          1.5         35.0
 
 
Buffer ratio = % of total wetland area
Wetland area = Total on and off site area of the wetland
Buffer area  = Wetland area x Buffer ratio
Buffer width = Buffer area x 43,560 ÷        
               4                      Wetland area x 43,560
 
(Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-16: WETLAND IMPACTS AND MITIGATION:
All developments having a wetland impact shall comply with this section. A
permit for any wetland impact shall be obtained from the county administrator.
(Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-17: IMMITIGABLE WETLANDS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Wetlands identified as having a flora quality index (FQI) greater than
or equal to 25 shall not be filled or dredged as part of any development. The
FQI shall be based solely on the wetland vegetation. Buffers and adjacent plant
communities shall not be included in the calculation.
   B.   If the application of this section would: 1) have the effect of
depriving the owner of all economically beneficial or productive use of the
land; or 2) make the construction or installation of an essential public
improvement by a public entity impossible or highly impractical the applicant
may apply for a variance from the requirements of this section under section
8-4-5-15 of this chapter. If such variance is granted mitigation for the
wetland impact allowed shall be made according to subsections 8-4-5-10-19A and
E of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-18: MITIGATION REQUIRED:
All mitigable wetland impacts shall be mitigated as required under the COE 404
permit program. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-19: MITIGATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   For all mitigable wetland impacts:
      1.   Mitigation may be made within a wetland mitigation facility;
      2.   Mitigation may be made by the purchase of credits from a wetland
mitigation bank; and
      3.   Mitigation may be made by the payment of a fee in lieu of mitigation
under section
8-4-5-19-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Wetland impacts upon wetlands with an FQI of 7 or more but less than 16
shall be mitigated at a ratio of two to one (2:1).
   C.   Wetland impacts upon wetlands with an FQI of 16 or more but less than
25 shall be mitigated at a ratio of three to one (3:1).
   D.   Wetland impacts upon wetlands with an FQI of more than 25 shall be
mitigated at a minimum ratio of ten to one (10:1) plus one-half (1/2) for each
point by which the FQI exceeds 25 rounded up to the nearest whole number.
   E.   Wetland impacts upon wetlands that are inhabited by a threatened or
endangered species shall be mitigated at a ratio of three to one (3:1).
   F.   Mitigation for wetland impacts upon more than one wetland within a site
shall meet the standards applicable to each individual wetland that is
impacted.
   G.   FQI assessments made before June 1 or after October 15 shall be
considered to be preliminary. Mitigation requirements based upon such
preliminary assessments shall not be considered to be final until a proper
final FQI assessment is made, unless an FQI of at least 16 is applied to the
mitigation. Preliminary FQI assessments that exceed 16 will require final FQI
assessments.
   H.   The applicant may propose an alternative mitigation plan combining
wetland creation, purchase of credits from a wetland mitigation bank, payment
of a fee in lieu of wetland mitigation and/or enhancing existing wetlands
either on site or off site. The administrator shall determine if a proposed
alternative mitigation plan meets the requirements of this section and their
decision shall be final. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-20: WETLAND MITIGATION PLAN:
   A.   In addition to the requirements of section
8-4-5-11 of this chapter, if wetland mitigation is required a wetland
mitigation plan shall be submitted and contain the following information:
      1.   A narrative of the proposed plan including a description of the
proposed hydrologic regime, soils and site geomorphology, where applicable;
      2.   Drawings depicting each wetland impacted and each wetland mitigation
facility together with an individual listing contained in a summary table;
      3.   Specifications for rough and final grading, soil types, soil
placement, plant procurement, water control structures, and a planting plan
that lists the plant materials by scientific and common name, seeding rate or
spacing distance and special planting provisions; and
      4.   Maintenance and monitoring provisions including an annual work
schedule describing each task in detail and time of year when it will be
performed.
   B.   The wetland mitigation plan shall be designed such that the following
information is provided:
      1.   Every wetland mitigation facility shall contain at least two (2)
wetland plant communities (for example, wet prairie, emergent, submergent,
floating vascular, forested wetland, sedge meadow, or hemimarsh); and
      2.   Open water shall not constitute more than twenty percent (20%) of
the entire wetland mitigation facility except for hemimarshes. (Ord. 2016-003,
3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-21: BUFFER REQUIREMENTS FOR WETLAND MITIGATION FACILITIES:
Wetland mitigation facilities shall be buffered according to the requirements
of section
8-4-5-10-15 of this chapter. Reductions are allowed in accordance with that
section. No buffer is required for that portion of a wetland mitigation
facility which is adjacent to an existing preserved wetland. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-
8-2016)
8-4-5-10-22: WETLAND MITIGATION PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   All wetland mitigation facilities shall meet the following performance
standards:
      1.   They shall meet the definition of a "wetland" under this section
8-4-5;
      2.   All vegetated zones within any wetland mitigation facility shall
achieve eighty five percent (85%) cover;
      3.   The emergent community shall achieve sixty percent (60%) aerial
coverage;
      4.   The floating vascular community shall meet twenty five percent (25%)
aerial coverage; and
      5.   Open water shall have zero percent (0%) vegetative coverage.
   B.   A wetland mitigation facility designed to mitigate for impacts upon
wetlands with a FQI of less than 7 shall achieve a minimum FQI three (3) points
greater than the FQI of the wetland impacted within the five (5) year
monitoring period.
   C.   A wetland mitigation facility designed to mitigate for impacts upon
wetlands with an FQI of 7 or more but less than 25 shall achieve a minimum FQI
five (5) points greater than the FQI of the wetland impacted within the five
(5) year monitoring period. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-23: MITIGATION MONITORING:
The wetland mitigation facility shall be monitored and managed for five (5)
years beginning on the day the wetland planting is completed. The procedures
for monitoring wetland mitigation facilities shall be those set forth in
current Chicago district COE. An annual report shall be filed by the developer
by February 15 of each year for every wetland mitigation facility under permit.
Once a wetland mitigation facility reaches its required FQI and meets the
performance standards of section
8-4-5-10-22 of this chapter, a request for the release of the performance
security may be made to the administrator. A release of the performance
security may be requested of the administrator as early as the end of the third
full growing season. At the end of the five (5) year monitoring and management
period, or upon acceptance by the administrator, the wetland mitigation
facility shall be maintained in accordance with section
8-4-5-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-24: MITIGATION REQUIRED FOR NONPERFORMING WETLAND:
At the end of the five (5) year monitoring period or upon an earlier request
for the release of the performance security, the administrator shall evaluate
the wetland mitigation facility for compliance with the performance standards
of section
8-4-5-10-22 of this chapter. If the administrator determines that the facility
meets the standards they shall release the performance security. If the
administrator determines that the facility does not meet the standards they
shall make an estimate of the probable cost of mitigating for the shortfall in
performance. The administrator shall then draw on the performance security the
amount estimated to mitigate the shortfall in performance and shall release the
remainder. The amount withheld for mitigation shall be deposited in the fund
created under and expanded in the manner described in section
8-4-5-19-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-10-25: DENIAL OF PERMIT; APPEAL:
The denial of permit under this section may be appealed in the manner described
in section
8-4-5-11-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-11: REQUIRED SUBMITTALS FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMITS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Permit Requirements: A stormwater management permit is required if:
         a.   The development is located in the regulatory floodplain;
         b.   A substantial improvement is to be located in the regulatory
floodplain;
         c.   There is any regulatory floodplain within the site; or
         d.   The development disturbs more than five thousand (5,000) square
feet of ground or two hundred fifty (250) cubic yards of soil, unless the
development consists solely of:
            (1)   The installation, renovation or replacement of a septic
system, potable water service line or other utility serving an existing
structure;
            (2)   The maintenance, repair or at grade replacement of existing
lawn areas not otherwise requiring a stormwater permit under this section
8-4-5;
            (3)   The maintenance of an existing stormwater facility, not
requiring other state or federal permits or approvals.
      2.   Approvals: All appropriate stormwater management related approvals
and permits, including, without limitation, an IDNR-OWR floodway/floodplain
construction permit, a COE 404 permit and an IDNR-OWR dam safety permit, if
required, shall be obtained from all federal, state and regional authorities
prior to the issuance of a stormwater management permit.
      3.   Permit Fees: All permit fees shall be paid at the time of
application. Permit fees shall be established by separate ordinance. Fees may
be established based upon all costs incurred by the permitting authority in the
administration of the permit, including, without limitation, the costs of
review and inspections both during and after construction within the period for
the establishment of permanent cover.
      4.   Stormwater Facilities: A topographical map of the site, record
drawings and other required drawings shall be prepared, signed and sealed by a
professional land surveyor or professional engineer and referenced to the NAVD-
88 and shall include the following documentation:
         a.   The design of stormwater facilities, calculations for the
determination of the regulatory floodplain and calculations of the impacts of
development shall meet the standards of this section
8-4-5 and shall be prepared, signed and sealed by a professional engineer. The
signature and seal of such professional engineer shall stand as their opinion
that the submittals which accompany the permit application meet the
requirements of this section
8-4-5.
         b.   Differential water pressure for the stormwater management project
shall conform to IDNR-OWR part 3702 construction and maintenance of dams for
classification and permitting.
      5.   Development Permit Requirements: No person, firm, corporation, or
governmental body not exempted by law shall commence any development in the
floodplain without first obtaining a development permit from the applicable
government official. The applicable government official shall not issue or
allow for the issuance of a development permit if the proposed development does
not meet the requirements of this section
8-4-5.
         a.   The application for a development permit shall be accompanied by:
            (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
            (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting
from excavation or filling;
            (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
the buildings;
            (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of this section
8-4-5; and
            (5)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed
engineer or architect registered in the state of Illinois. A signed estimate by
a contractor may also meet this requirement.
         b.   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
applicable government official shall compare the elevation of the site to the
base flood elevation. Any development located on land that is shown by survey
elevation to be below the current base flood elevation is subject to the
provisions of this section
8-4-5. In addition, any development located on land shown to be below the base
flood elevation and hydraulically connected to a flood course, but not
identified as floodplain on the current flood insurance rate map, is subject to
the provisions of this section
8-4-5. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to be
higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filed after
the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map is not in the floodplain
and therefore not subject to the provisions of this section
8-4-5.
The applicable government official shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate
map identification. The applicable government official shall be responsible for
obtaining from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local
permits, approvals or permit not required letters that may be required for this
type of activity. The applicable government official shall not issue a permit
unless all other federal, state, and local permits have been obtained. (Ord.
2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-11-1: DURATION AND REVISION OF PERMITS:
   A.   Permits expire on December 31 of the third year following the date of
the original issuance date.
   B.   If a permitted project has achieved start of construction but is not
complete by the expiration date of the permit, the permittee may submit in
writing a request for an extension to the administrator. Upon receipt of such
request, the administrator may extend the expiration date for a maximum of
three (3) years for permitted activities that are outside of the special
management areas. Expiration dates for permitted activities within the special
management areas may also be extended for a maximum of three (3) years if the
activity is in compliance with the current requirements of this section
8-4-5.
   C.   If a permitted project has not achieved start of construction within
one year of the date of the permit then the development shall comply with any
new floodplain management regulations, including updated FIRM, FIS and LOMR
that took effect after the date the permit was issued.
   D.   If a permitted project has not achieved start of construction by the
expiration date of the permit then the permit is expired and cannot be
extended.
   E.   If the permittee revises the approved plans after issuance of the
permit, the permittee shall submit the revised plans to the administrator,
along with a written request for approval. If the administrator determines that
the revised plans are in compliance with the current requirements of this
section
8-4-5 an amended permit may be issued. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-11-2: REQUIRED SUBMITTALS:
The administrator may at their discretion, modify the submittal requirements on
a case by case basis considering the size, complexity and likelihood that the
development will affect the discharge of stormwater. Such modifications shall
be requested and approved in writing. The administrator's response shall note
the relevant findings and specify what additional submittal requirements are
needed. The administrator may not modify submittal requirements for any aspect
of the development requiring state or federal permits or approvals, nor for any
application in which any variance is requested. The administrator shall receive
a copy of any wetland submittal under section
8-4-5-11-7 of this chapter whether or not the county is the permitting
authority. The administrator shall be copied on all related correspondence.
(Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-11-3: APPLICATION AND PROJECT OVERVIEW:
   A.   The applicant shall at a minimum, provide the following information on
forms or in a format approved by the administrator:
      1.   The names and legal addresses of all owners of the site;
      2.   The names and legal addresses of the developer or developers
responsible for completing the development according to the plans submitted,
the terms and conditions of the permit and the requirements of this section
8-4-5;
      3.   The common address, legal description and parcel identification
number (PIN) of all parcels which comprise the site;
      4.   The name of the project, area of the site in acres and type of
development;
      5.   A general narrative description of the development, existing and
proposed conditions and project planning principles considered, including best
management practices used;
      6.   Copies of all other permits or permit applications as required; and
      7.   An engineer's estimate of probable construction cost of the
stormwater facilities and the installation and maintenance of soil erosion and
sediment control measures.
   B.   The application shall be signed by all owners and developers identified
in subsections A1 and A2 of this section and shall contain their attestation
that they have read and understand the provisions of this section
8-4-5 and agree to bind themselves to the permitting authority to comply
therewith. If at any time prior to completion, final inspection and approval of
the development the identity of the persons required to be disclosed in
subsections A1 and A2 of this section changes, an amended application
containing the current information shall be filed and the permit shall be
amended accordingly. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-11-4: PLAN SET SUBMITTAL:
All applicants for a stormwater permit shall provide the following basic plan
exhibits. Each exhibit may be no more than one drawing for clarity. The
specific information to be included on each exhibit shall be as noted below:
   A.   Elevation Reference: All elevations shall be referenced to NAVD-88.
   B.   Site Topographical Map:
      1.   Map scales as one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50') (or less) and
accurate to ±0.5 feet;
      2.   Existing and proposed contours on site (1 foot maximum contour
interval) and within one hundred feet (100') of the site;
      3.   Existing and proposed drainage patterns and watershed boundaries;
      4.   Delineation of predevelopment regulatory floodplain and floodway
limits;
      5.   Delineation of postdevelopment regulatory floodplain and floodway
limits;
      6.   Location of cross sections and any other hydrologic or hydraulic
computer modeled features;
      7.   Location of all on site drain tiles;
      8.   Boundaries of all wetlands, lakes, ponds, etc., with normal water
elevation noted (show all areas of wetlands to be impacted regardless under
permit or if a permit is not required);
      9.   Location of all existing buildings and those to remain on the site
noted;
      10.   Nearest base flood elevations;
      11.   FEMA and/or reference bench marks used; and
      12.   All contours used in the calculation of depressional storage
highlighted.
   C.   General Plan View Drawing:
      1.   Drawing at the same scale as the site topographical map (see
subsection B of this section);
      2.   Existing major and minor stormwater systems;
      3.   Proposed major and minor stormwater systems;
      4.   Design details for stormwater facilities (i.e., structure and outlet
work detail drawings, etc.);
      5.   Scheduled maintenance program for permanent stormwater facilities
including BMPs;
      6.   Planned maintenance tasks and schedule for those tasks;
      7.   Identification of persons who will be responsible for maintenance;
      8.   Permanent government access maintenance easements granted or
dedicated to, and accepted by, a government entity;
      9.   Proposed regulatory floodplain and floodway location (with the base
flood and flood protection elevations noted);
      10.   Existing waters of the U.S. including wetlands, a certified wetland
determination obtained from NRCS if the development occurs on agricultural
land, wetlands and aquatic resources identified in ADID, and required buffers.
      11.   Directly connected impervious areas and any offsetting landscaped
areas;
      12.   All plan areas at elevations below the 100-year high water
elevation of site runoff storage facilities highlighted; and
      13.   Where a critical facility is proposed, the plan shall include the
limits of the 500-year floodplain.
   D.   Sediment And Erosion Control Plan:
      1.   Drawings at the same scale as the site topographical map (see
subsection B of this section).
      2.   Sediment and erosion control installation measures and schedule.
      3.   Existing and proposed roadways, structures, parking lots, driveways,
sidewalks and other impervious surfaces.
      4.   Limits of clearing and grading.
      5.   Special management areas located.
      6.   Proposed buffer locations, existing soil types, vegetation and land
cover conditions.
      7.   List of maintenance tasks and schedule for sediment and erosion
control measures.
      8.   The name, address and phone number at which the person responsible
for erosion and sediment control may be reached on a twenty four (24) hour
basis.
      9.   The expected 2-year and 10-year runoff rates from all off site areas
draining into the site shall be identified on the plan.
      10.   Methods for conveying flows through the site during construction
shall be indicated. These methods shall include the temporary and permanent
stabilization measures to be used to reduce velocity and erosion from flow
through the construction zone.
   E.   Vicinity Topographical Map:
      1.   Vicinity topographical map identifying all off site areas draining
to the development and downstream to the receiving intermittent or perennial
stream (a 2 foot contour map is preferred at a scale readable by the reviewer
but a USGS quadrangle map is acceptable);
      2.   Watershed boundaries for areas draining to, through or from the
development;
      3.   Soil types related to hydrologic soils group, vegetation and land
cover affecting runoff upstream of the site for any area draining through the
site;
      4.   Location of site within the major watershed(s); and
      5.   Show the overland flow path from the upstream end of the development
to the receiving intermittent or perennial stream.
   F.   Wetland Mitigation Plan: Wetland mitigation plan, if applicable, in
accordance with section
8-4-5-10-20 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-11-5: STORMWATER SUBMITTAL:
The stormwater submittal shall include a narrative discussion and calculations
to support a finding by the qualified review specialist that the proposed
development complies with the technical requirements of this section
8-4-5. The submittal shall consist at a minimum of the following material:
   A.   Narrative description of the existing and proposed site drainage
patterns and conditions, including description of off site conditions which
help to identify stormwater issues considered in the design;
   B.   Schedule for implementation of the site stormwater plan;
   C.   On site and off site runoff calculations which address the following:
      1.   Documentation of the procedures and assumptions used to calculate
hydrologic and hydraulic conditions for sizing major and minor systems;
      2.   Cross section data for open channels;
      3.   Hydraulic grade line and water surface elevations under design flow
conditions; and
      4.   Hydraulic grade line and water surface elevations under base flood
flow conditions.
   D.   Site runoff storage calculations, which address the following:
      1.   Calculation of hydraulically connected impervious area and
corresponding retention volume;
      2.   Documentation of the procedures and assumptions used to calculate
hydrologic and hydraulic conditions for determining the allowable release rate;
      3.   Documentation of the procedures and assumptions used to calculate
hydrologic and hydraulic conditions for determining the storage volume;
      4.   Elevation area storage data and calculations for site runoff
storage; and
      5.   Elevation discharge data and calculations specifically related to
the outlet control structure depicted in the plan exhibits. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-
8-2016)
8-4-5-11-6: FLOODPLAIN SUBMITTAL:
The applicant shall obtain approval from IDNR-OWR and FEMA when required for
all new base flood and floodway determinations or as required in section
8-4-5-10-4 of this chapter. Documentation supporting a finding by the qualified
review specialist that the proposed development is in compliance with sections
8-4-5-10-3,
8-4-5-10-4,
8-4-5-10-5,
8-4-5-10-6,
8-4-5-10-7,
8-4-5-10-8,
8-4-5-10-9,
8-4-5-10-10,
8-4-5-10-11,
8-4-5-10-12, and
8-4-5-10-13 of this chapter shall be submitted with the application. At a
minimum, the following material shall be submitted for approval with the
application:
   A.   Regulatory floodplain boundary determination.
      1.   Provide source of flood profile information; and
      2.   Provide all hydrologic and hydraulic study information for site
specific floodplain studies, unnumbered zone A area elevation determinations
and floodplain map revisions.
   B.   Floodplain fill and compensatory storage calculations for below and
above 10-year flood elevation up to the base flood elevation.
      1.   Tabular summary for below and above 10-year flood elevation of fill,
compensatory storage and compensatory storage ratios provided in proposed plan;
and
      2.   Cross sections used for the above calculations.
   C.   Floodproofing measures.
      1.   Narrative discussion of floodproofing measures including material
specifications, calculations, design details and operation summary; and
      2.   Flood easements when required by this section
8-4-5.
   D.   Current statewide permits and such information that indicates that the
development qualifies for the particular permits in question under the
regulations established for such permit(s) by IDNR-OWR. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-
2016)
8-4-5-11-7: WETLAND SUBMITTAL:
   A.   The applicant shall obtain a permit for all federally regulated
activities involving waters of the U.S. from the appropriate federal
authorities. The applicant shall obtain a permit from the county (or the
certified community), for all developments having a wetland impact. The
applicant shall indicate on the plans the location of any on site wetland
mitigation required by a COE permit and, in narrative form, the location of all
off site mitigation.
   B.   A wetland submittal in accordance with the detailed requirements of
sections
8-4-5-10-3,
8-4-5-10-14,
8-4-5-10-15,
8-4-5-10-16,
8-4-5-10-17,
8-4-5-10-18 and
8-4-5-11-4 of this chapter shall be required. In general, the submittal will
consist of the following material:
      1.   Wetland delineation report (COE format).
      2.   Calculation of required buffer (including the size and quality when
calculated).
      3.   Wetland delineation plan, plan view drawing:
         a.   All existing and proposed impacted or undisturbed on site
wetlands;
         b.   Location of the buffers; and
         c.   Planting plan for buffers; and
         d.   Identify all required wetland management activities.
      4.   For all stream modifications, the following shall be submitted:
         a.   A plan and profile of the existing and proposed channel; and
         b.   Supporting calculations for channel width, depth, sinuosity,
riffle locations and similar features.
   C.   If the development will have a wetland impact, the requirements of
section
8-4-5-10-14 of this chapter shall be met. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-11-8: PERFORMANCE SECURITY:
Performance security in accordance with section
8-4-5-18 of this chapter shall be required prior to permit issuance. (Ord.
2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-11-9: MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE AND FUNDING:
A completed maintenance schedule for the stormwater management facilities and
special management areas in accordance with section
8-4-5-12 of this chapter shall be submitted along with identification of the
persons responsible for maintenance and funding and backup funding sources for
maintenance in accordance with section
8-4-5-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-11-10: RECORD DRAWINGS:
The permittee is required to submit record drawings of all permitted stormwater
facilities. The record drawings shall be signed and sealed by a professional
engineer who shall state that the project as constructed is substantially in
conformance with the development as permitted. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-11-11: TERMS OF PERMIT/DENIAL AND APPEAL:
   A.   Within three (3) weeks after being served with the permit or notice
that the permit has been denied, the applicant may appeal the terms or denial
of the permit to the oversight committee. The appeals shall be made by filing a
notice thereof with the oversight committee specifying the specific provisions
appealed and the grounds therefor. The administrator shall conduct a hearing on
the appeal not more than sixty (60) days after the filing of the notice of
appeal. The hearing shall be de novo. Notice of the hearing shall be served
upon the applicant, the administrator and upon all communities within the same
watershed as the development to which the appeal relates. The hearing may be
continued from time to time. The oversight committee may adopt rules for the
taking of evidence and conduct of such hearings.
   B.   Within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the hearing, the oversight
committee shall decide whether to affirm or reverse, in whole or in part, the
terms or denial of the permit. The decision of the oversight committee shall be
in writing and shall include the specific findings and conclusions supporting
its determination. A copy of this decision and the order shall be served upon
all parties entitled to notice in accordance with section
8-4-5-16-7 of this chapter.
   C.   Within ten (10) days of being served with the order of the oversight
committee, the applicant may (and if the denial of the permit or any of the
terms thereof have been reversed, in whole or in part, by the oversight
committee, the administrator shall), further appeal to the decision making
authority. The decision making authority shall decide the appeal upon the
record before the oversight committee. The decision making authority shall
affirm the order of the oversight committee if it is supported by substantial
evidence in the record. A copy of the decision and order of the decision making
authority shall be served upon all parties entitled to notice in accordance
with section
8-4-5-16-7 of this chapter.
   D.   Within ten (10) days of being served with the order of the decision
making authority, the applicant may (and if the effect of the decision making
authority's decision is that the denial of the permit or any of the terms
thereof have been reversed, in whole or in part, the administrator shall),
further appeal to the committee. The committee shall decide the appeal upon the
record below. The committee shall decide the appeal within forty five (45) days
of its receipt thereof. The committee shall affirm the order of the decision
making authority if it is supported by substantial evidence in the record. A
copy of the decision and order of the committee shall be served upon all
parties entitled to notice in accordance with section
8-4-5-16-7 of this chapter.
   E.   From a final order of the committee, the applicant may appeal to the
courts under the Illinois administrative review law. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-12: LONG TERM MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Ownership: The owner shall maintain that portion of a stormwater
drainage system, including any special management areas, located within the
owner's property. Stormwater drainage system's long term maintenance may be
transferred to the following groups when approved by the administrator:
      1.   Dedicated or transferred to a permitting authority or other public
entity; or
      2.   Conveyed and accepted by a homeowners' association or similar
entity, where the association consists of the owners of the lots within that
development.
   B.   Submittal:
      1.   The long term maintenance plan shall include the long term
management plan, operation and maintenance of the stormwater management system
and the entity that is responsible for the long term maintenance. The plan
shall also include how this maintenance will be funded. All details of the plan
shall be reviewed and approved by the administrator.
      2.   Private entities that are responsible for the installation,
preservation and maintenance of a stormwater drainage system and special
management area are required to have a funding mechanism to support this
endeavor. As part of the permitting process, the administrator will approve the
permit under the provisions of this section
8-4-5 when accompanied by an acceptable establishment of a special service area
pursuant to 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 200/27-5 et seq., either as the
primary means of providing for the long term maintenance of the facilities or
as a backup vehicle in the event the entity designated by the applicant as
having this responsibility fails to carry out these duties. If the
establishment of a special service area is required, the administrator shall
make an estimate of the tax rate required to produce a tax to be levied upon
all taxable property within the development that will be sufficient for the
long term maintenance of the facilities and submit the same to the permitting
authority which shall incorporate such rate into its enactment of the
ordinances necessary for the establishment of the area. The ordinances to be
enacted by the permitting authority shall be substantially in the form set
forth in subsection
8-4-5-21D, "Appendix D; Sample Special Services Area Ordinances", of this
chapter. The county administrator shall submit to the permitting authority on
or before August 1 of each year the estimated amount of tax required to be
levied upon all taxable property within the area for the next fiscal year for
the continued maintenance of the stormwater drainage system. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-
8-2016)
8-4-5-12-1: TRANSFER TO PERMITTING AUTHORITY OR OTHER PUBLIC ENTITY:
That portion of a stormwater drainage system or special management area that is
dedicated or transferred to a permitting authority or public entity under the
provisions of this section shall be provided with appropriate easements for
ingress and egress for maintenance purposes. These easements shall be provided
for the benefit of either the permitting authority or the public entity to
which the responsibility has been transferred. These easements shall be shown
on the final plat for the development and clear language shall be included on
the plats for the purposes of the easements. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-12-2: TRANSFER TO HOMEOWNERS' OR SIMILAR ASSOCIATION:
Any portion of the stormwater drainage system or special management area that
is transferred to a homeowner's association the following requirements and
details shall be adhered to:
   A.   Appropriate easements for ingress and egress to the designated
stormwater drainage system or special management area shall be granted. This
dedicated easement needs to be shown on the approved final plat for the
development.
   B.   The final plat or annexation agreement shall contain details that
clearly state the responsibilities and obligations for the homeowners'
association and its successors. These responsibilities shall be included within
the homeowners' association covenant and a copy of these covenants shall be
included with the final plat or annexation agreement. Any amendments to these
details shall be updated with the authority having jurisdiction and the
administrator.
   C.   The final plat shall contain language that allows the entry of
personnel representing the permitting authority to inspect components of the
storm drainage system or special management areas and if needed perform any
maintenance required in this section if the association does not properly
perform that maintenance. If maintenance is required a lien will be filed
against the land for the cost of the required maintenance.
   D.   The association shall be duly incorporated and a copy of the
certification of incorporation shall be recorded along with the bylaws for the
association. If there are any modifications to either of these documents,
updated documents shall be provided to the administrator.
   E.   The bylaws of the association shall at a minimum in regard to
stormwater, contain:
      1.   A provision acknowledging and accepting the association's obligation
to maintain those portions of the stormwater drainage system and special
management areas conveyed or otherwise transferred to it under this section
8-4-5;
      2.   A mechanism for imposing an assessment upon the owners of the lots
within the development that will fund the maintenance of the stormwater
drainage system or special management area and the payment of all taxes levied
thereon;
      3.   A provision adopting the plan of long term maintenance set forth in
the application for a stormwater management permit, with approved amendments;
      4.   A provision identifying the officer of the association who will be
responsible for overseeing that all of the obligations imposed upon the
association are complied with;
      5.   A provision requiring the consent of the permitting authority when
any amendments are made to the bylaws required by this section
8-4-5; and
      6.   A provision that requires the consent of the permitting authority to
the dissolution of the association.
   F.   Any conveyance or other instrument of transfer delivered under this
section
8-4-5-12 and any subsequent conveyance shall include a covenant affirmatively
imposing upon the grantee the obligations, restrictions and provisions set
forth in this section and the grantee's affirmative acceptance thereof. (Ord.
2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-12-3: CONVEYANCE TO ONE OR MORE PERSONS:
The following actions shall be taken for that portion of the stormwater
drainage system or special management areas that are to be conveyed to one or
more persons under this section
8-4-5-12, then:
   A.   The approved final plat shall contain the appropriate ingress and
egress easements and the appropriate maintenance for such easements shall be
dedicated for the benefit of the permitting authority;
   B.   The approved final plat shall contain information and a legend that
describe in detail the obligations of this section upon the grantee and its
successors in interest as a covenant running with the land and incorporating by
reference the plan of long term maintenance set forth in the application for
stormwater management permit, with approved amendments;
   C.   The approved final plat shall include provisions for the permitting
authority to perform necessary maintenance of the stormwater drainage system or
special management area required if the responsible party fails to do so. If
the permitting authority completes this work a lien will be placed against the
property for the cost thereof;
   D.   The approved final plat shall include any conveyance delivered under
this section
8-4-5-12 and any subsequent conveyance shall include a covenant affirmatively
imposing upon the grantee the obligations, restrictions and provisions set
forth in this section and the grantee's affirmative acceptance thereof. (Ord.
2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-12-4: INCORPORATION OF MAINTENANCE OBLIGATIONS INTO THE STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT PERMIT:
The provisions of this section shall be incorporated within the stormwater
management permit through specific reference. The applicant's signature is
acceptance of all provisions included within the document. The administrator
shall request that the permit be recorded. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-13: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
8-4-5-13-1: INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE AUTHORITY:
In accordance with the authority that is granted in 55 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/5-1104 and 5/5-1062, the county may upon thirty (30) days' notice to
the owner or occupant, enter upon any lands or waters within the county for the
purpose of inspecting and/or maintaining any stormwater facilities or causing
the removal of any obstruction to an affected watercourse. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-
2016)
8-4-5-13-2: REQUIRED INSPECTIONS:
Any development having a stormwater management permit may be periodically
inspected by the administrator or authorized agent to ensure that the
management plan has conformed to and is being maintained in accordance with
this section
8-4-5 and the terms and conditions of the stormwater management permit. (Ord.
2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-13-3: OFFENSES:
   A.   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply
with, or resists the enforcement of any provision of this section
8-4-5, or any requirement or condition contained within the stormwater
management permit or in the case of a permit violation, fails to correct the
violation after notice and reinspection, shall be considered in violation of
this section
8-4-5.
   B.   Whenever the administrator determines that a permit violation exists, a
notice shall be served to the owner and/or permittee of the property. The
notice shall state specifically what the violation is and the section of the
ordinance that was violated. A date shall be provided within the notice that
states when an inspection will be made to confirm that the site was modified
such that it is compliant. If there are any violations as stated in section
8-4-5-8 of this chapter, immediate action such as an inspection may be
warranted. All notices shall be made to the owner and/or occupant of the
property by certified mail. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-13-4: OFFENSES; PENALTIES AND REMEDIES:
   A.   The administrator may engage any one or more of the following remedies
when enforcing this section
8-4-5 against a permit holder or violator of this section
8-4-5:
      1.   The administrator may impose a civil fine upon such person in an
amount not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense. Each week (7 consecutive days) that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. Other actions may be
taken by law to prevent or to remedy any violation of this section
8-4-5 and these remedies shall be in addition to any other penalties.
      2.   The administrator may revoke any stormwater management permit issued
to any party.
      3.   The administrator may issue a stop work order that would suspend any
further work on the site. The stop work order shall be issued in writing and
shall indicate the justification for the order being issued, and what action
needs to take place to allow work to continue. A copy of the stop work order
shall be posted at the site of the stormwater management area where the
violation exists.
      4.   The administrator may require that the area impacted be fully
restored to its original condition. In the case of a wetland impact the area's
preexisting condition shall be determined by reference to a creditable wetland
assessment performed within two (2) years of such impact.
      5.   The administrator may require the owner of property to apply for a
permit for unpermitted work. If the unpermitted work has impacted a wetland,
the FQI of the wetland shall be determined by the administrator or qualified
agent and shall be submitted with a mitigation plan.
   B.   In order to enforce any of the remedies set forth in the preceding
paragraph, the administrator may bring legal action or equitable action,
including injunctive relief that may be deemed necessary. In any such action,
in addition to any fine or other relief, the administrator may recover all
costs and expenses, including any attorney fees that were incurred. (Ord. 2016-
003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-14: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
8-4-5-14-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
This section applies to all development within the county and to all
development within the corporate boundaries of any certified community
including that under the control of any governmental entity, agency or
authority, except as provided in section
8-4-5-14-7 of this chapter. Any person undertaking a development shall obtain a
stormwater management permit from the permitting authority. Any person
undertaking a development having a wetland impact shall obtain a permit from
the responsible agent in a community certified under this section
8-4-5. Any certified community undertaking development in the regulatory
floodway of a floodplain shall obtain a permit from IDNR-OWR if required prior
to issuance of a stormwater management permit. All units of local government
shall obtain stormwater management permits from the permitting authority within
whose boundaries the development is located. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-14-2: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   This section
8-4-5 does not apply to:
      1.   Development which has been completed before January 1, 2017;
      2.   Development which has been determined to be exempt by the committee;
and
      3.   Wetland impacts occurring before the effective date hereof.
   B.   Structures classified as nonconforming structures, according to chapter
12 of this title, shall not be replaced or enlarged in any manner unless such
replacement or enlargement conforms to the requirements of this section
8-4-5. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-14-3: COMMITTEE'S DETERMINATION OF EXEMPTION:
   A.   Before January 1, 2017, each community shall submit to the county
administrator a list of proposed exempt developments prepared and adopted in
accordance with section
8-4-5-14-4 of this chapter. At its next regularly scheduled meeting occurring
not less than thirty (30) days after the county administrator's receipt of the
list, the committee shall consider the developments listed in the exempt
listing. Any member of the committee may remove from the list for further
consideration any development located within the area represented by that
member. Additionally, the committee, upon a passed motion by a simple majority,
may remove any development from the list for further consideration. After such
removals, the developments remaining on the list shall be determined to be
exempt from the provisions of this section
8-4-5.
   B.   With respect to those developments removed from the list, the committee
shall determine each development on a community's list to be exempt from the
provisions of this section
8-4-5 if:
      1.   Substantial development has commenced; or
      2.   The stormwater plan for such development:
         a.   Provides site runoff storage which at a minimum meets a 0.15 cfs/
acre release rate standard; and
         b.   Includes a designed conveyance system for flow rates up to the
base flood for off site and on site flows without damage to structures; and
         c.   Provides for soil erosion and sediment control in accordance with
the "Illinois Urban Manual". (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-14-4: COMMUNITY'S LIST OF PROPOSED EXEMPT DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   A community may place a development on the list of proposed exempt
developments if:
      1.   The development meets the criteria for exemption listed in
subsection
8-4-5-14-3B of this chapter;
      2.   A contractual agreement, specifically exempting the development from
the stormwater regulations of the community, was entered into before January 1,
2017.
   B.   A community's list shall be submitted in accordance with subsection
8-4-5-14-3A of this chapter and should include a description of each
development that is proposed exempt along with evidence that the development
meets the criteria for exemption listed in subsection
8-4-5-14-3B of this chapter in order to facilitate the committee's
determination.
   C.   Once a community's list of proposed exempt developments has been
approved by the committee, the list shall be adopted by an official action of
the corporate authorities of the community. Prior to taking such action, the
community shall publish in accordance with section
8-4-5-16-8 of this chapter a notice in substantially the following form:
         NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
         On (date), at (time), the (corporate authorities) of the (type of
community) of (community) will consider and take formal action with respect to
the approval of the following list of developments proposed as exempt from the
provisions of the Grundy County Stormwater Management Ordinance, adopted by the
Grundy County Board on             . Any person wishing to do so, may attend
the meeting and be heard prior to the (corporate authorities) taking such
action.
         (List of proposed exempt developments)
   D.   In addition to the published notice of the public hearing, not less
than fifteen (15) days prior to taking any such action, the community shall
place a sign in a conspicuous place at each of the developments on the list
advising the public that the development is on the list proposed as exempt from
the provisions of this section
8-4-5 and of the date and time of the meeting at which formal action with
respect to the approval of the list will be taken and of the public's right to
appear to be heard prior to such approval.
   E.   Once submitted, the list shall not be changed except that a developer
of a development inadvertently omitted from the list by the community may apply
directly to the committee for a determination that the development meets all of
the requirements of this section for being exempt. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-14-5: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   This section
8-4-5 shall be construed to protect the health, welfare, safety, and the
environment of the residents of the county and to effectuate the purposes of
this section
8-4-5 and the enabling legislation.
   B.   Nothing in this section
8-4-5 shall be deemed to consent to, license, permit to locate, construct, or
maintain any structure, site, facility or operation, or to carry on any trade,
industry, occupation, or activity.
   C.   When provisions of this section
8-4-5 differ from any other applicable law, statute, ordinance, rule or
regulation, the more stringent provision shall apply.
   D.   The provisions of this section
8-4-5 are cumulative of all other laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and
regulations which relate to the subject matter hereof and, except as otherwise
expressly provided herein, nothing in this section
8-4-5 shall be construed as a limitation upon the application or enforcement of
any such law, statute, ordinance, rule or regulation. To the greatest extent
possible, the provisions of this section
8-4-5 shall be construed to be consistent with the provisions of such other
laws, statutes, ordinances, rules or regulations, and with each other, to the
end that all such provisions may be given their fullest application. (Ord.
2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-14-6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
   A.   The degree of flood protection provided by this section
8-4-5 is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based upon
engineering experience and scientific methods of study. Increased flooding may
result from causes beyond the control of any government authority. This section
8-4-5 does not, therefore, guarantee that areas outside the floodplain or
permitted land uses within the floodplain will be free from flooding and
associated damages.
   B.   Nothing in this section
8-4-5 shall be construed or applied in any manner to create liability on the
part of or a cause of action against the county, any municipality or other
government authority, or any elected official or any officer, agent, or
employee of any of the foregoing, or any qualified engineer review specialist
for any flood damage resulting from reliance on the provisions of this section
8-4-5. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-14-7: CHOICE OF PLANNING JURISDICTION:
Pursuant to 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1062.2(b) a community that is
located in more than one county may choose, at the time of the formation of the
committee and based upon watershed boundaries, to participate in the stormwater
management planning program of either or both of the counties. Unless the
municipality at the time of the formation of the committee has chosen to
participate in the stormwater management planning program of another county,
the committee shall include such municipality within the scope of its planning
and enforcement jurisdiction. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-14-8: SEVERABILITY:
   A.   The provision of this action shall be severable in accordance with the
following rules:
      1.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision
of this section
8-4-5 to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provision of this
section.
      2.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge to be invalid
the application of any provision of this section
8-4-5 to a particular parcel or land, a particular structure, or a particular
development, such judgment shall not affect the application of said provision
to any other land, structure or development. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-14-9: REPEALER:
This section
8-4-5 repeals the original section or resolution which was adopted to meet the
national flood insurance program. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-14-10: AMENDMENTS:
No amendments to this section
8-4-5 may be passed without a public hearing first being held before the
committee upon notice published as provided in section
8-4-5-16-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-14-11: EFFECTIVE DATE:
After its passage, approval and publication according to law, this section
8-4-5 shall take effect on January 1, 2017. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-15: VARIANCES:
8-4-5-15-1: PURPOSE:
In order to provide an avenue to allow relief from strict compliance with the
requirements of this section
8-4-5 where it is deemed impractical to achieve that compliance, variances from
specific provisions of this section
8-4-5 may be granted by the administrator according to the standards set forth
in this section. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-15-2: APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE:
   A.   An application needs to be completed by the petitioner, with respect to
the development to which it relates. This application shall be provided to the
administrator. No application for a variance will be accepted for filing unless
it relates to a previously filed application for a stormwater management
permit. The number of application submittal packages is decided by the
administrator of this section
8-4-5. Upon request, the administrator shall provide complete variance
submittal packages to the county administrator and to the communities that are
directly affected for their review. Applications shall provide the following
information:
      1.   The common address(es) and legal description of the development
site;
      2.   All pertinent information about the petitioners;
      3.   The names, addresses, and phone numbers of all consultants retained
in connection with the application for a variance;
      4.   The names and addresses of owners of record of land within five
hundred feet (500') of the property line of the site;
      5.   The specific feature or features of the development that the
variance is being sought;
      6.   The specific provisions of this section
8-4-5 from which a variance is requested and the hardship of compliance to this
section
8-4-5;
      7.   A statement of the characteristics of the development that prevent
compliance with the provisions of this section
8-4-5; and
      8.   A statement that the variance requested is the minimum variance
necessary to permit the development;
      9.   A statement as to how the variance requested satisfies the standards
set forth in section
8-4-5-15-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-15-3: APPLICATION FEE:
With the filing of the application for a variance, the applicant shall pay a
fee in accordance with the prescribed ordinance as adopted by the certified
community and the county. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-15-4: PUBLIC HEARING:
The following steps need to be followed prior to the public hearing process:
   A.   The application shall be complete and been satisfactorily reviewed by
the administrator; and
   B.   The administrator shall notify the applicant of the schedule for the
public hearing for the petition before the oversight committee;
   C.   Notice of the public hearing shall be published by the applicant in
accordance with section
8-4-5-16-8 of this chapter and served as provided in section
8-4-5-16-7 of this chapter upon all owners of record of land within five
hundred feet (500') of the site as disclosed in the application and upon each
community, and the drainage district within the same watershed as the
development in question. The notices given under this section shall set forth
the common name, address and legal description of the development and a brief
description of the variance requested. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-15-5: GRANTING OF VARIANCES:
8-4-5-15-5-1: GRANTING OF VARIANCES (NOT INCLUDING GRANTING OF VARIANCES FROM
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS):
This section pertains to all variances relating to this section
8-4-5, except variances from floodplain management regulations. The granting of
floodplain management variances shall be according to section
8-4-5-15-5-2 of this chapter.
   A.   Variances from the provisions of this section
8-4-5 shall not be granted unless the variance is consistent with the purposes
of this section
8-4-5 and meets the following standards based upon substantial evidence
submitted at the hearing:
      1.   The variance shall not increase the probability of flood damage or
create an additional threat to the public health, safety and welfare;
      2.   The variance is the minimum required considering each of the
following statements of policy underlying this section
8-4-5 and there are no means other than the requested variance by which the
demonstrated hardship can be avoided or remedied to a degree sufficient to
permit the reasonable continuation of the development:
         a.   Site runoff storage of stormwater shall also contribute to the
improvement of the quality of stormwater runoff;
         b.   The volume of site runoff storage provided in open air vegetated
facilities is maximized consistent with other site constraints on land use,
including zoning requirements essential for the proposed development;
         c.   Conveyance of stormwater shall not disproportionately absorb the
design capacity of existing off site conveyance facilities for any storm event
from the 2-year to the 100-year flood frequency; and
         d.   High quality natural areas shall be preserved on the site,
including, without limitation, stands of native trees, existing wetlands,
natural floodplain storage, or other valuable environmental and biological
resources.
      3.   The variance is not requested solely for the purpose of increasing
the residential density of the development nor impervious areas on the site;
      4.   The variance is not requested solely as a result of economic
hardship;
      5.   If applicable, the variance is required due to unique, natural
topographical features of the site; and
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are not self-imposed.
   B.   No variance shall be granted for any development in regulatory wetlands
or critical wetlands, the effect of which would be to create regulations less
restrictive than the federal or state minimum standards applicable to the
development in such areas. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-15-5-2: GRANTING OF VARIANCES FROM FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS:
This section pertains to variances from floodplain management regulations only.
The granting of all other variances shall be according to section
8-4-5-15-5-1 of this chapter.
   A.   Variances from the floodplain management provisions of this section
8-4-5 shall not be granted unless the variance is consistent with the purposes
of this section
8-4-5 and meets the following:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      3.   The administrator shall notify the applicant in writing that:
         a.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance;
         b.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property; and
         c.   Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all
variance actions as required in subsection A4 of this section.
      4.   The administrator shall maintain a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance.
      5.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated regulatory
floodway if they would result in any increase to the BFE. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-
2016)
8-4-5-15-6: RECOMMENDATIONS:
   A.   The administrator shall review the application for a variance and
present a written recommendation to the oversight committee at the public
hearing.
   B.   Not more than forty five (45) days after the close of the hearing, the
administrator shall forward the application and recommendations to the decision
making authority. The written recommendations from the administrator shall be
accompanied by the written findings of fact with respect to each of the
elements set forth in section
8-4-5-15-5 of this chapter with a listing of the evidence taken at the public
hearing. If the administrator fails to act within forty five (45) days, it
shall be deemed to have forwarded the application with no recommendation to the
decision making authority. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-15-7: DECISION:
The decision making authority shall grant the variance as submitted, with
modifications or conditions or deny the variance in its entirety. (Ord. 2016-
003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-15-8: CONDITIONS:
   A.   A variance from the original petition submittal may be granted when the
record supports the applicant's right to some relief.
   B.   When granting a variance, the decision making authority may impose such
specific conditions and limitations on the applicant concerning any matter
relating to the purposes and objectives of this section
8-4-5 as may be necessary or appropriate.
   C.   When a variance is granted that includes condition(s) required to be
met by the applicant, the applicant shall file evidence with the administrator
that the condition(s) have been met. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-16: ADMINISTRATION:
8-4-5-16-1: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The committee shall oversee the enforcement of this section
8-4-5.
   B.   The administrator shall ensure that this code is administered. In
performing their duties, the administrator may delegate routine
responsibilities to any named designee.
   C.   Each certified community shall remain solely responsible for its
standing in the national flood insurance program, including:
      1.   The maintenance of all records and submission of all reports
required for eligibility in the program including all elevation certificates,
floodproofing certificates, and lowest floor elevations; and
      2.   The notification of the county administrator and committee of any
proposed amendment to this section
8-4-5. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-16-2: DUTIES OF THE CERTIFIED COMMUNITY AND COUNTY LAND USE DEPARTMENT:
The certified community and the county land use department shall be responsible
for the general administration of this section
8-4-5 and ensure that all stormwater management development activities under
the jurisdiction thereof meet the requirements of this section
8-4-5 specifically as listed below:
   A.   Process development permits in accordance with section
8-4-5-11 of this chapter;
   B.   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
8-4-5-10-3 of this chapter;
   C.   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to subsection
8-4-5-10-3C of this chapter, are met and maintain a record of the "as built"
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   D.   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section
8-4-5-8 of this chapter;
   E.   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
8-4-5-15 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
   F.   Provide for the inspection of all development projects and take any and
all actions outlined in section
8-4-5-7 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this section
8-4-5;
   G.   Assure that applicants are aware of any and all other required local,
state, and federal permits;
   H.   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse;
   I.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   J.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this section
8-4-5;
   K.   Maintains copies of all applications and submittals, federal and state
permits, variance, CLOMR, LOMR, CLOMA, LOMA, and all documentation associated
with any of the foregoing for public inspection;
   L.   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps, copies
of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for development
activities subject to this section
8-4-5;
   M.   Perform site inspections and make substantial damage determinations for
structures within the floodplain;
   N.   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of subsection
8-4-5-10-3C of this chapter;
   O.   Maintains documentation and data on the cost of any improvement to a
structure in the floodplain in order to enforce the provisions of this section
8-4-5 pertaining to the substantial improvements to such structures;
   P.   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the certified
community or land use department shall compare the elevation of the site to the
base flood elevation. Conversely, any development located on land shown to be
below the base flood elevation and hydraulically connected, but not as shown on
the current flood insurance rate map is subject to the provisions of this
section
8-4-5. The land use department shall maintain documentation of this existing
ground elevation prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
identification; and
   Q.   Advises, consults and cooperates with other government agencies to
promote the purposes of this section
8-4-5. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-16-3: DUTIES OF THE COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR AND ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   The county administrator:
      1.   Supervises the enforcement of this section
8-4-5 by the certified communities, Grundy County land use department, and
administrators;
      2.   Supervises the development, revision, and implementation of this
section
8-4-5 by the committee and the county;
      3.   Acts as administrator for the review of permits for any community
that requests such assistance, or designates such duties to a qualified
individual or consultant;
      4.   Notifies all communities in the county, FEMA, and the IDNR-OWR of
any amendments to this section
8-4-5; and
      5.   Administers wetland impacts and mitigation according to section
8-4-5-10-14 of this chapter except in certified communities under the
regulations of this section
8-4-5.
   B.   The administrator:
      1.   Supervises the enforcement of this section
8-4-5 for individual projects;
      2.   Administers the qualified engineer review specialist and qualified
wetland review specialist programs;
      3.   Maintains a current list of all regulatory maps that are enforced
under this section
8-4-5;
      4.   Ensure that all required stormwater permits and approvals are
achieved from agencies such as, but not limited to, federal, state, regional
and county prior to an issuance of a stormwater permit;
      5.   Uses qualified engineer review specialist and qualified wetland
review specialist for the review of permit applications and considers their
recommendations in granting or denying any permit under this section
8-4-5, unless the review of the developer's qualified wetland review specialist
indicates that there are no wetlands on site in which case the administrator
may rely upon that review without having it independently verified;
      6.   Notifies adjacent communities in writing thirty (30) days prior to
the issuance of a stormwater management permit involving the alteration or
relocation of a watercourse; and
      7.   Ensures that all wetland impacts have been mitigated. (Ord. 2016-
003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-16-4: REPRESENTATIVE CAPACITY:
In all cases when any action is taken by the administrator to enforce the
provisions of this section
8-4-5, such action shall be taken either in the name of the county or the
certified community, as the case may be, and neither the administrator, nor his
or her designee, in so acting shall be rendered personally liable. (Ord. 2016-
003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-16-5: OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE:
The corporate authorities of each certified community within the county shall
oversee the implementation and enforcement of this section
8-4-5 within its jurisdiction. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-16-6: DECISION MAKING AUTHORITY:
The corporate authorities of each certified community within the county shall
by separate resolution designate a decision making authority to perform the
duties assigned to the decision making authority in this section
8-4-5. The decision making authority shall consist of the corporate authorities
or any committee thereof, plan commission, zoning board of appeals, or other
existing body, or the corporate authorities may, according to their own rules
and procedures, establish a separate decision making authority. The county
administrator shall act as the decision making authority for the county. The
decision making authority, when considering an appeal or request for a variance
under this section
8-4-5, may request an opinion of a qualified engineer, review specialist or
qualified wetland review specialist on technical issues. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-
2016)
8-4-5-16-7: SERVICE:
Unless otherwise provided herein, service of any notice or other instrument
under this section
8-4-5 may be made upon any person by the following:
   A.   By first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to address then on file
for such person, if any, or if none, to such person's last known address; or
   B.   By any method prescribed under the Illinois code of civil procedure.
(Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-16-8: PUBLICATION:
Unless otherwise provided herein, publication of any notice or other instrument
under this section
8-4-5 shall be made by publishing such notice or other instrument once in a
newspaper (and municipal or county website where possible) published within the
community having jurisdiction over the matter to which the publication relates
(or, if no newspaper is published within the community, then a newspaper
published in the county and having a general circulation within the community),
such publication being not less than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30)
days before the public hearing or other event to which the publication relates.
(Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-17: CERTIFIED COMMUNITY ENFORCEMENT:
Pursuant to 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1062.2: The county shall enforce
all of the provisions of this section
8-4-5 within: a) the unincorporated areas of the county, b) within the limits
of any county highway, county right of way or any highway or right of way upon
which the county is constructing or causing to be constructed a highway
improvement or appurtenance, c) in connection with the development of any site
owned by the county, d) within any portion of an uncertified community that
lies within the county, and e) pursuant to intergovernmental agreement within
any portion of an uncertified community that lies outside the county, all
except as provided in section
8-4-5-14-7 of this chapter. For purposes of this section the terms "highway"
and "right of way" shall have the meanings ascribed to them under the Illinois
highway code 1 .
   A.   Unless such community has been certified under this section
8-4-5 to administer this section
8-4-5 before January 1, 2017, the county shall enforce the provisions of this
section
8-4-5 within that portion of any certified community that lies within the
county and pursuant to intergovernmental agreement, within that portion of any
certified community that lies outside the county.
   B.   A community certified under this section shall enforce all of the
provisions of this section
8-4-5 within the community for which it has received certification. (Ord. 2016-
003, 3-8-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
8-4-5-17-1: PETITION FOR CERTIFICATION AND WAIVER OF ENFORCEMENT:
Any community that wishes to enforce the provisions of this section
8-4-5 within its borders shall file a petition for certification and waiver of
enforcement (petition for certification), on or before January 8, 2017. After
January 8, 2017, petitions for certification may be filed during the month of
June of each year. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-17-2: FILING AND CONTENTS OF PETITION FOR CERTIFICATION:
A petition for certification shall be filed with the county administrator. The
petition need not be on any particular form but, at a minimum, shall set forth
and be accompanied by the following:
   A.   The agreement of the corporate authorities of the community to adopt,
if certified, this section
8-4-5 by reference;
   B.   The community's plan for the implementation and enforcement of this
section
8-4-5, including proposed staffing;
   C.   The agreement of the corporate authorities of the community to include
in any new annexation agreement a provision requiring every other party to the
agreement to affirmatively agree to comply with the provisions of this section
8-4-5, as amended from time to time;
   D.   The agreement of the corporate authorities of the community that the
community will follow the rules and procedures of the committee in any
proceeding concerning its certification and be bound by the decision of the
committee in granting or failing to grant, or suspending or revoking its
certification and reasserting county jurisdiction over the enforcement of this
section
8-4-5 within county boundaries of the community;
   E.   If a portion of the community lies outside the county and the community
has not requested, or if requested does not receive, certification to
administer this section
8-4-5, the agreement of the corporate authorities of the community to enter
into, if certified to administer the remaining provisions of this section
8-4-5, an intergovernmental agreement with the county providing for the
county's enforcement within those portions of the community lying outside the
county;
   F.   Evidence of the community's ability to comply with the regulations of
this section
8-4-5 pertaining to the use of qualified review specialists and qualified
wetland review specialists; and
   G.   The list of projects to which this section
8-4-5 or some portion of this section
8-4-5 do not apply in accordance with this section
8-4-5. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-17-3: COMMITTEE CONSIDERATION OF PETITION FOR CERTIFICATION:
The committee shall consider each properly filed petition for certification at
a regular or special meeting called for such purpose not later than sixty (60)
days after the filing of the petition. This meeting may be continued. The
committee may adopt rules for the taking of evidence and conduct of such
meetings. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-17-4: STANDARDS FOR CERTIFICATION:
Upon a finding of the committee that the community has complied with this
section
8-4-5, that the community's plan for the implementation and enforcement of this
section
8-4-5 is reasonably feasible, and that the community has demonstrated the
ability to comply with this section
8-4-5-17, the committee shall grant the petition for certification. The
committee's decision shall be made in writing, and shall specify the reasons
for granting or denying the petition. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-17-5: CERTIFIED COMMUNITY RECORDS:
   A.   Every certified community shall maintain adequate records of every
stormwater management permit issued and every variance granted under this
section
8-4-5 for development within its borders.
   B.   Every certified community shall retain record drawings of all
improvements made pursuant to a stormwater management permit issued or variance
granted by such community.
   C.   The records of each certified community maintained under this section
8-4-5 may be periodically inspected by the administrator.
   D.   Upon request, such records shall be provided electronically in native
source to the county administrator. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-17-6: COMMITTEE REVIEW OF ENFORCEMENT BY CERTIFIED COMMUNITY:
The committee may periodically review the implementation and enforcement of
this section
8-4-5 by each certified community. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-17-7: INVESTIGATIONS; COMPLIANCE:
   A.   The county administrator upon his own initiative or at the request of
any person may conduct an investigation into a certified community's
implementation and enforcement of this section
8-4-5. Such investigation may include, but is not limited to, an examination of
all relevant records maintained by the community and field inspections of
relevant developments, structures or stormwater facilities. If upon such
investigation, the county administrator determines that the community has
failed in some significant way, or has repeatedly failed, to implement or
enforce this section
8-4-5, then they shall prepare a report of their findings along with a
complaint for the suspension, revocation or partial revocation of the
community's certification and file them with the committee. The complaint shall
contain a short and plain statement describing how the certified community has
failed in some significant way, or has repeatedly failed, to implement or
enforce this section
8-4-5.
   B.   Upon receipt of a written complaint, the committee shall serve a copy
thereof along with a copy of the report of the administrator upon the community
named therein in accordance with this section
8-4-5. A copy of the complaint and report shall also be served upon any person
or organization who has requested an investigation of the community's
enforcement of this section
8-4-5 by the county administrator within six (6) months immediately preceding
the filing of the complaint. The community may file a written answer to the
complaint within thirty (30) days after being served. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-17-8: HEARING ON COMPLAINT:
The committee shall conduct a hearing on the complaint not less than seventy
five (75) nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days after service of the
complaint upon the community. Notice of the hearing shall be served upon the
community and all parties who received a copy of the complaint and published in
accordance with section
8-4-5-16-8 of this chapter. The hearing may be continued. The committee may
adopt rules for the taking of evidence and conduct of such hearings. (Ord.
2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-17-9: COMMITTEE DECISION:
Within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the hearing, the committee shall
decide whether or not to suspend or to revoke in whole or in part the
certification of the community. The decision of the committee shall be in
writing and shall include the specific findings and conclusions supporting its
determination. A copy of the decision and order shall be served upon the
community and all parties which received a copy of the complaint in accordance
with section
8-4-5-16-7 of this chapter. The decision of the committee to suspend or to
revoke the certification of the community in whole or in part is final and may
not be appealed to any court. During the time of the suspension, the county
administrator shall assume responsibilities of the issuance of stormwater
management permits. If the community's certification is suspended, the
community shall automatically become recertified upon the expiration of the
period of suspension. If the community's certification is revoked in whole or
in part, the community may reapply for certification at or after such time as
the committee shall specify in its order of revocation. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-
2016)
8-4-5-18: PERFORMANCE SECURITY:
   A.   General Security Requirements:
      1.   To secure the performance of the developer's obligation to complete
the construction of the stormwater facilities required by the stormwater
management permit, and to pay all costs, fees and charges due under this
section
8-4-5, and to fully comply with all of the provisions of this section
8-4-5, the applicant shall, prior to issuance of a stormwater management
permit, complete the following:
         a.   Post the security provided in section
8-4-5-18-1 of this chapter;
         b.   Post the security provided in section
8-4-5-18-2 of this chapter if an erosion and sediment control plan is required
under this section
8-4-5;
         c.   Post the security provided in section
8-4-5-18-3 of this chapter if mitigation for a wetland impact is required under
this section
8-4-5 and the applicant chooses to mitigate within a wetland mitigation
facility; and
         d.   Post a comprehensive security which includes the provisions for
funds for stormwater management, erosion and sediment control, and wetland
mitigation (where required by ordinance).
      2.   The applicant shall bear the full cost and responsibility of
obtaining and maintaining the security required by this section. (Ord. 2016-
003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-18-1: DEVELOPMENT SECURITY:
   A.   In all cases the applicant shall post:
      1.   A schedule, agreed upon by the applicant and the administrator for
the completion of any stormwater facilities required by the permit;
      2.   A statement of the estimated probable cost to complete the
construction of any stormwater facilities required by the permit which estimate
is subject to the approval of the administrator; and
      3.   An irrevocable letter of credit in favor of the permitting authority
or such other adequate security as the administrator may approve, in an amount
equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the approved estimated probable cost
to complete the construction of any required stormwater facilities.
   B.   The security required by this section shall be maintained by the
applicant in favor of the permitting authority until all stormwater facilities
required by the permit, other improvements as may be included in a
comprehensive security are completed, improvements have been finally inspected
and approved by the administrator, requirements of local ordinances have been
completed, all conditions set forth in the permit have been satisfied and the
applicant has complied with all the provisions of this section
8-4-5.
   C.   The administrator may approve periodic reductions in the amount of the
security based upon the progress of construction and requirements of local
ordinances. At no time, however, shall more than ninety percent (90%) of the
security be released prior to approval of record drawings and final inspection.
A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the original amount of the security shall be
retained for a period of one year after completion of all required stormwater
facilities. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-18-2: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL SECURITY:
   A.   If an erosion and sediment control plan is required under this section
8-4-5 the applicant shall post:
      1.   A statement of the estimated probable cost to install and maintain
the erosion and sediment control measures required by the plan which estimate
is subject to the approval of the administrator; and
      2.   An irrevocable letter of credit in favor of the permitting authority
or such other adequate security as the administrator may approve, in an amount
not less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the approved estimated probable
cost to install and maintain the required erosion and sediment control
measures.
   B.   The security required by this section shall be maintained by the
applicant in favor of the permitting authority until construction is completed,
inspected and approved for the following:
      1.   Erosion and sediment control.
      2.   Improvements listed within the comprehensive security.
      3.   Vegetation has been established.
      4.   Sediment has been removed from all stormwater facilities.
      5.   Requirements of the local ordinances. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-18-3: WETLAND MITIGATION AND PERFORMANCE SECURITY:
   A.   If mitigation for wetland impact is required under this section
8-4-5 and the applicant chooses to mitigate within a wetland mitigation
facility, the applicant shall post:
      1.   A statement of the estimated probable cost to install, monitor and
maintain the wetland mitigation facility required by the plan for five (5)
years which estimate is subject to the approval of the administrator; and
      2.   An irrevocable letter of credit in favor of the county (or certified
community when approved to administer wetland mitigation), or such other
adequate security as the administrator may approve, in an amount not less than
one hundred ten percent (110%) of the approved estimated probable cost.
   B.   The security required by this section shall be maintained by the
applicant in favor of the county or community in a community certified to
administrator this section
8-4-5 until found to meet the performance standards of this section
8-4-5. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-18-4: LETTERS OF CREDIT:
   A.   Letters of credit posted pursuant to this section shall be approved by
the administrator.
   B.   Each letter of credit shall be drawn on an institution that is accepted
by the administrator and has assets of at least ten million dollars
($10,000,000.00). The institution shall also have an office that is within the
Chicago metropolitan area and is a member of the federal deposit insurance
corporation.
   C.   Each letter of credit shall be:
      1.   Irrevocable;
      2.   Include language that states that in order to receive funds from the
letter of credit that the applicant's consent is not required;
      3.   If at any time the letter of credit is within the one hundred twenty
(120) day period prior to the expiration date, and it has not yet been renewed,
a notice shall be sent to the administrator. If the applicant of the letter of
credit has not completed the work or has completed the work in an
unsatisfactorily manner, the administrator may within ten (10) days' notice and
without being required to take any further action, present the letter of credit
for payment and thereafter hold all proceeds as security for the satisfactory
completion of all such obligations or employ the proceeds to complete all such
obligations and reimburse the permitting authority for any and all costs and
expenses, including legal fees and administrative costs, incurred by the
permitting authority; and
      4.   Certified communities may use proprietary letter of credit language
which meets or exceeds the requirements of this section.
   D.   If the administrator at any time determines that the amount of the
letter of credit is not sufficient to pay the stormwater facility work secured
through the letter of credit, the administrator may require that the letter of
credit amount increase within one hundred twenty (120) days following a request
in writing. The increase in the letter of credit shall be determined sufficient
to complete all maintenance of all erosion control measures. Failure to
increase the amount as suggested by the administrator shall be grounds for the
administrator to present the letter of credit for payment.
   E.   If at any time the administrator determines that the bank issuing the
letter of credit is without assets of at least ten million dollars
($10,000,000.00), is unable to meet any federal or state requirements for
reserves, is insolvent, is in danger of becoming any of the foregoing, or is
otherwise in danger of being unable to honor such letter of credit at any time
during its term, or if the administrator otherwise reasonably deems the issuing
bank to be insecure, then the administrator shall have the right to demand that
the applicant provide a replacement letter of credit from a bank meeting all of
the requirements listed within this section. Such replacement letter of credit
shall be deposited with the administrator not less than ten (10) business days
following such demand. Upon such deposit, the administrator shall return the
original letter of credit to the issuing bank.
   F.   If the applicant fails to fully meet any of the obligations listed
within this section, then the administrator shall present the letter of credit
for payment and withhold all the proceeds as security for the satisfactory
completion of all such obligations or employ the proceeds to complete all such
obligations or otherwise mitigate the effects of such failure or refusal and
may reimburse the permitting authority for any and all costs and expenses,
including legal fees and administrative costs, incurred by the permitting
authority. If as a result of such default, the remaining amount of the letter
of credit is less than the amount otherwise required to be then maintained
under this section, then the applicant shall, as requested by the
administrator, immediately secure with the administrator such additional funds
as the administrator determines to be required to be then maintained. (Ord.
2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-19: FEE IN LIEU OF SITE RUNOFF STORAGE AND WETLAND MITIGATION:
The administrator may require, or in the limited circumstances prescribed in
this section
8-4-5 an applicant may request approval of, the payment of a fee in lieu of
site runoff storage to fulfill all or part of the site runoff storage
requirement for a development. The fee shall be the lesser of the following:
   A.   The fee for each acre-foot or part thereof of storage otherwise
required computed under schedule adopted for such purpose by the permitting
authority; or
   B.   The verifiable cost of otherwise providing the required storage,
including the value of the land required and all construction costs. For this
purpose the land shall be valued according to the use to which it will
ultimately be put if not used to provide the required storage. (Ord. 2016-003,
3-8-2016)
8-4-5-19-1: PROCEDURES; USE OF FUNDS:
   A.   An applicant's request for approval of the payment of a fee in lieu of
site runoff storage shall be submitted to the administrator. The administrator
shall either grant or deny the request within forty five (45) days of receiving
the request unless the applicant agrees to an extension.
   B.   Fees paid in lieu of runoff storage shall be deposited in a separate
fund created specifically for that purpose. All receipts and disbursements of
such funds shall be accounted for by the individual watershed in which the
development is located.
   C.   Fees paid in lieu of site runoff storage shall be expended to plan,
design, construct or improve stormwater management systems. Preference shall be
given to projects that are within the same watershed as the proposed project in
which the fees were paid. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-19-2: FEE IN LIEU OF WETLAND MITIGATION:
If wetland mitigation is required under this section
8-4-5 and the applicant requests to satisfy the mitigation requirement by
paying a fee in lieu of mitigation, the applicant shall complete the following:
   A.   Prepare a statement of the estimated probable cost to acquire the land,
install, monitor and maintain a wetland mitigation facility for five (5) years
(which estimate is subject to the approval of the administrator), as if the
applicant had chosen to satisfy the mitigation requirement by mitigating within
a wetland mitigation facility; and
   B.   If mitigation credits are available from any wetland mitigation bank,
the applicant shall also prepare a statement of the estimated probable cost of
satisfying the mitigation requirement through the purchase of credits from a
wetland mitigation bank (which estimate is subject to the approval of the
administrator), as if the applicant had chosen to satisfy the mitigation
requirement in such manner.
   C.   The fee in lieu of wetland mitigation to be paid under this section
shall be the lesser of either subsection A or B of this section. (Ord. 2016-
003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-19-3: PROCEDURE:
   A.   An applicant's statement of its intention to satisfy the wetland
mitigation requirement by the payment of a fee in lieu of wetland mitigation
shall be in writing and filed with the administrator in a certified community,
along with the estimates detailed in the preceding section.
   B.   Fees paid in lieu of wetland mitigation shall be deposited by the
county administrator or certified community in a separate fund created
specifically for this purpose. Clear records need to be kept that show all of
the receipts and disbursements from these funds that are used within the
individual watershed in which the fees have been paid.
   C.   Fees paid in lieu of mitigation for wetland impacts within the county
shall be expended for the use of planning, design, construction, improvement,
acquisition, creation or enhancement of wetlands within the county, or wetland
mitigation facilities and wetland mitigation banks. Fees paid in lieu of
mitigation for wetland impacts within any other county may be expended for the
same expenses mentioned within this paragraph within the county, or wetland
mitigation facilities and wetland mitigation banks.
   D.   File the qualified engineer review specialist statement with the county
administrator. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-20: QUALIFIED REVIEW SPECIALISTS:
The review of an application for a stormwater management permit shall be
performed by a qualified review specialist and a qualified wetland review
specialist. The qualified review specialist and qualified wetland review
specialist together with the administrator shall determine whether the permit
application meets the requirements of this section
8-4-5. The administrator shall maintain a list of qualified review specialists
and qualified wetland review specialists together with the categories of review
in which they have obtained qualification. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-20-1: REQUIREMENTS FOR QUALIFIED REVIEW SPECIALISTS:
In order to be included on a list of qualified review specialists an applicant
shall:
   A.   Be a registered professional engineer in the state of Illinois.
   B.   Have expertise either by training or significant experiences in the
following areas:
      1.   Designing and permitting of stormwater management facilities;
      2.   Identification of floodplains and floodways, familiarity with FEMA
and IDNR-OWR floodplain maps and their policies and procedures;
      3.   Erosion and sediment control practices and procedures; and
      4.   Construction practices and inspection procedures.
   C.   Complete, sign and professionally seal the qualified review specialist
statement included in subsection
8-4-5-21B, "Appendix B; Qualified Engineer Review Specialist Statement", of
this chapter.
   D.   File the qualified review specialist statement with the county
administrator. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-20-2: REQUIREMENTS FOR QUALIFIED WETLAND REVIEW SPECIALISTS:
In order to be included on the list of qualified wetland review specialists an
applicant shall:
   A.   Complete a COE approved or other wetland delineation course approved by
the county administrator;
   B.   Have a bachelor's degree in an earth science, biological science or
engineering together with at least one of the following:
      1.   Three (3) years' (cumulative) full time experience in the Upper
Midwest region engaged in consulting on wetland related projects;
      2.   The completion of one hundred (100) wetland delineations in the
Upper Midwest region;
      3.   Three (3) years' (cumulative) full time experience engaged in
consulting on wetlands related projects; or
      4.   One hundred fifty (150) hours spent in field review of wetland
indications in the Upper Midwest region.
   C.   Have personally been involved with the design of at least ten (10)
wetland mitigation areas;
   D.   Complete and sign the qualified wetland review specialist statement in
the form included in subsection
8-4-5-21C, "Appendix C; Qualified Wetland Review Specialist Statement", of this
chapter; and
   E.   File the qualified wetland review specialist statement with the county
administrator. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-20-3: REVIEW OF QUALIFICATIONS:
Within thirty (30) days of filing of the application, the county administrator
will notify the applicant of their inclusion on the list of qualified engineer
review specialists and/or qualified wetland review specialists, as the case may
be. If the applicant is not accepted for inclusion on the list, the county
administrator shall specify the reasons for his decision. Within thirty (30)
days of the receipt of the county administrator's decision, the applicant may
appeal the review specialist qualifications committee (hereafter referred to as
the "RSQC") by filing with the county. The RSQC shall conduct a hearing on the
appeal in the manner prescribed by sections
8-4-5-20-6 and
8-4-5-20-7 of this chapter from which the applicant may further appeal in the
manner prescribed by section
8-4-5-20-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-20-4: REVIEW SPECIALIST QUALIFICATION COMMITTEE:
The review specialist qualification committee (RSQC) shall be formed and
consist of three (3) members from an annually updated listing of review
specialists who comply with the specifications of section
8-4-5-20-2 of this chapter. Each member shall be a qualified engineer review
specialist or qualified wetland review specialist as described herein. (Ord.
2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-20-5: INVESTIGATION; COMPLIANCE:
   A.   The county administrator upon their own initiative or at the request of
any person may conduct an investigation into the qualifications of a qualified
review specialist or qualified wetland review specialist, or such specialist's
performance of permit reviews under this section
8-4-5. Such investigation may include, but is not limited to, an examination of
all relevant records maintained by the community and field inspections of
relevant developments, structures or stormwater facilities. If upon such
investigation, the county administrator determines that the specialist has
failed in some significant way, or has repeatedly failed to conduct such
reviews in conformance with this section
8-4-5, then the county administrator shall prepare a report of their findings
along with a complaint for the suspension or revocation of the specialist's
certification and file that report with the RSQC. The complaint shall contain a
short and plain statement describing how the specialist has failed in some
significant way, or has repeatedly failed to conduct such reviews in
conformance with this section
8-4-5.
   B.   Upon receipt of a written complaint, the RSQC shall serve a copy
thereof along with a copy of the report to the county administrator upon the
specialist named therein in accordance with section
8-4-5-16-7 of this chapter. A copy of the complaint and report shall also be
served upon the communities directly associated with the complaint. The
specialist may file a written answer to the complaint served by the county
administrator within thirty (30) days after receiving the report. (Ord. 2016-
003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-20-6: HEARING ON COMPLAINT:
The RSQC shall conduct a hearing on the complaint not less than seventy five
(75) nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days after service of the complaint
upon the specialist. Notice of the hearing shall be served upon the specialist
and upon any community which received a copy of the complaint and published in
accordance with section
8-4-5-16-8 of this chapter. The hearing may be continued from time to time. The
RSQC may adopt rules for taking the evidence and conduct of such hearings.
(Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-20-7: DECISION OF THE RSQC:
Within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the hearing, the RSQC shall decide
whether or not to remove, either temporarily or permanently, the name of the
specialist from the list of qualified review specialists. The decision of the
RSQC shall be in writing and shall include the specific findings and
conclusions supporting its determination. A copy of the decision and order
shall be served upon the specialist and upon any community which received a
copy of the complaint in accordance with section
8-4-5-16-7 of this chapter. If the specialist's name is to be temporarily
removed from the list, the specialist shall automatically become prequalified
upon the expiration of the designated period. If the specialist's name is to be
permanently removed, the specialist may apply for qualification at or after
such time as the RSQC specifies within its order. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
8-4-5-20-8: APPEALS:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days after being served with the order from the
RSQC, the specialist may appeal to the commission. The appeal shall be made by
filing a notice thereof with the county administrator. The commission shall
conduct a hearing on the appeal not less than seventy five (75) nor more than
one hundred twenty (120) days after the filing of the notice of the appeal. The
hearing shall be de novo. Notice of the hearing before the RSQC shall be served
upon all applicable parties. The hearing may be continued from time to time.
The commission may adopt rules for the taking of evidence and conduct of such
hearings.
   B.   Within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the hearing, the
commission shall decide whether to affirm or reverse, in whole or in part, the
order of the RSQC. The decision of the commission shall be in writing and shall
include the specific findings and conclusions made by the commission to support
their decision. A copy of the decision and order shall be served upon all
parties in accordance with section
8-4-5-16-7 of this chapter.
   C.   Following a final decision of the commission, the specialist may appeal
to the courts under the Illinois administrative review law. (Ord. 2016-003, 3-
8-2016)
8-4-5-21: APPENDICES:
   A.   Appendix A; Watershed Boundaries:
      WATERSHED BOUNDARIES FOR MAJOR WATERSHEDS IN GRUNDY COUNTY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1730.png]
   B.   Appendix B; Qualified Engineer Review Specialist Statement:
      Qualified Engineer Review Specialist Statement
      I,                              , of
                                        , with professional licensure in the
State of Illinois, do hereby state that I have read and fully understand the
Grundy County Stormwater Ordinance (hereafter referred to as the 'ordinance')
and the Technical Guidance Manual. I also understand that it is my
responsibility to also abide and understand all amendments to the ordinance. I
affirmatively state that I meet the requirements set forth in Section
8-4-5-20 of the ordinance. I will review projects for compliance with the
ordinance using my expertise in stormwater management system design, floodplain
and floodway policies and procedures, soil erosion and sediment control
procedures and practices, and construction practices and inspections, and
permitting processing through federal and state organizations. I will exercise
professional judgment with respect to projects submitted for my review in
accordance with the customary standard of care applicable to persons providing
similar services in the same or similar services in the same or similar
communities in order to insure substantial conformance with the ordinance. I
understand that failure to adequately discharge this obligation may, with due
process, result in loss of this status. It is my responsibility to provide the
Administrator with any changes to the information provided.
      Signature
      P.E. Registration Number Expiration Date
      (seal)
      Telephone:   
      Fax:    
      Email:    
      Employer:    
(Attach a one-page summary of your qualifications under
8-4-5-20 of the ordinance)
   C.   Appendix C; Qualified Wetland Review Specialist Statement:
      Qualified Wetland Review Specialist Statement
      I,                               , of
                                        , do hereby state that I have read and
understand the Grundy County Stormwater Ordinance (hereafter referred to as
'ordinance') and the Technical Manual which accompanies it, and will obtain,
read and abide by any amendments thereto. I affirmatively state that I meet the
requirements set forth in
8-4-5-20 of the ordinance. I will review projects for compliance with those
sections of the ordinance pertaining to wetlands, including, without
limitation, wetland delineation and the calculation of buffer widths. I will
use my expertise in wetland delineations or filed identification of wetland
indicators in the Upper Midwest. I understand that failure to adequately
discharge this obligation may, with due process, result in loss of this status.
It is my responsibility to provide the Administrator with any changes to the
information provided.
      Signed
      Telephone    
      Fax    
      Email    
      Employer:    
(Attach a one-page summary of your qualifications under Section
8-4-5-20)
   D.   Appendix D; Sample Special Services Area Ordinances:
   [City/Village] of                               
   ORDINANCE NO.                
AN ORDINANCE PROPOSING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE                 SPECIAL SERVICE
AREA [or SPECIAL SERVICE AREA NO.                ] OF _________________,
ILLINOIS AND THE LEVY OF TAXES FOR THE PURPOSE OF PAYING THE COST OF PROVIDING
SPECIAL SERVICES IN AND FOR SUCH AN AREA.
   ADOPTED BY THE
   [MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL/PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES]
   OF THE
   [CITY/VILLAGE] OF                               
   [DATE]
   ORDINANCE NO.                               
AN ORDINANCE PROPOSING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE                      SPECIAL
SERVICE AREA [or SPECIAL SERVICE AREA NO.                ] OF
                     ILLINOIS AND THE LEVY OF TAXES FOR THE PURPOSE OF PAYING
THE COST OF PROVIDING SPECIAL SERVICES IN AND FOR SUCH AREA
WHEREAS pursuant to the provision of the 1970 Constitution of the State of
Illinois (the Constitution), the [City/Village] of                          ,
Grundy County, Illinois (the [City/Village]), is authorized to create special
service area in and for the [City/Village], and;
WHEREAS, special service areas are established by non-home rule units pursuant
to Section 7 (6) of Article VII of the Constitution which provides that:
Municipalities...which are not home rule units shall have...powers... to levy
or impose additional taxes upon areas within their boundaries in the manner
provided by law for the provision of special services to those areas and for
the payment of debt incurred in order to provide those special services;
And are established according to law pursuant to the provisions of and act to
provide the manner of levying or imposing taxes for the provisions of special
services to areas that are within the boundaries of home rule units and non-
home rule municipalities and counties, "approved September 21, 1973 as amended
and pursuant to the Revenue act of 1939 of the State of Illinois, as amended,
and;
WHEREAS, the Area is compact and contiguous, totally within the corporate
limits of the [City/Village] and;
WHEREAS the Area will benefit from the municipal services to be provided by the
[City/Village] (the Services), and the Services are unique and in addition the
services provided to the [City/Village] as a whole, therefore it is in the best
interest of the [City/Village] that the establishment of the Area be
considered, and;
WHEREAS, it is in the public interest that the levy of a direct annual ad
valorem tax upon all taxable property that is within the Area being considered
for the direct purpose of paying the cost of providing the Services; and
WHEREAS, the revenue from such tax shall be exclusively for the sole purpose of
the Services for which the [City/Village] is authorized under the provisions of
the Illinois Municipal Code, as amended, to levy taxes or special assessments
or to appropriate the funds of the [City/Village]. All of the Services to be in
and for the Area and all of the necessary construction and maintenance to be on
property now owned or to be acquired by the [City/Village], or property in
which the [City/Village] will obtain an interest sufficient for the provisions
of the Services, and;
WHEREAS, said direct annual ad valorem tax shall be levied upon all taxable
property that is within the Area for an indefinite period of time beginning for
the year            and shall not exceed an annual rate of            of the
assessed valuation of each tax parcel within the Area and shall be in addition
to all other taxes permitted by law, and;
WHEREAS, a public hearing will be held at                     , on the
           day of                ,           , in the [City/Village] Hall
                    ,                , Illinois                      (the
hearing), to consider the establishment of the Area for the purpose of
providing these services and the levy of an additional direct annual ad valorem
tax for the purpose of paying the cost thereof, all as described in the Notice
of Public Hearing set forth in Section 2 hereof (the notice), and;
WHEREAS, the notice shall be given by publication and mailing. Notice by
publication shall be given by publication on a date, such date being not less
than 15 days prior to the hearing, in a newspaper published within the [City/
Village] or, or general circulation within the [City/Village], there being no
newspaper published therein. Notice by mailing shall be given by depositing the
notice in the United States Mail addressed to the person or persons in whose
name the general taxes for the last preceding year were paid on each lot,
block, tract, or parcel of land lying within the area. The notice shall be
mailed not less than 10 days prior to the time set for the hearing. In the
event taxes for the last preceding year were not paid, the notice shall be sent
to the person last listed on the tax rolls prior to that year as the owner of
said property.
NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the [Mayor and City Council/President and the
Board of Trustees] of the [City/Village] of                     , Grundy
County, Illinois as follows:
1) Incorporation of the preambles
The preambles of this ordinance are hereby incorporated into this text as if
set out herein in full.
2) Notice
The [Mayor and City Council/President and Board of Trustees] determine that the
notice is in the proper statutory form as set forth as follows:
   NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
   [CITY/VILLAGE] OF                , GRUNDY COUNTY, ILLINOIS
              SPECIAL SERVICE AREA [or NO.           ]
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that on                     , at                     ,
in [City/Village] Hall,                     ,                    , Illinois, a
public hearing (the hearing) will be held by the [Mayor and City Council/
President and Board of Trustees] of the [City/Village] of                     ,
Grundy County, Illinois to consider the establishment of the
                     Special Service Area [No.           ], (the area), of the
[City/Village], consisting of the following described territory:
   SEE ATTACHED EXHIBIT A
Said territory consists of approximately            acres lying [insert general
description of location]. An accurate map of said territory is on file in the
office of the [City/Village] Clerk and is available for public inspection.
The purpose of the establishment of the Area is to provide the following
special services (the services) to the Area: the operation, maintenance,
repair, rehabilitation, replacement and reconstruction of any stormwater site
runoff storage area, drainage way, ditch, swale, storm sewer or other
stormwater facility; costs of design, engineering and other consulting
services, surveying and permits, public liability insurance, and all
administrative, legal and other costs or expenses incurred in connection
therewith and with the administration of the Area, including the repayment of
any load or debt incurred for the provision of any of such Services to be in
and for the Area.
All of the Services are to be on property now owned or to be acquired by the
[City/Village], or property in which the [City/Village] will obtain an interest
sufficient for the provision of the Services.
The levy of a direct annual ad valorem tax upon all taxable property within the
Area for the purpose of paying the cost of the Services will also be considered
at the hearing. The tax shall be levied upon all taxable property within the
Area for an indefinite period of time beginning for the year            and
shall not exceed an annual rate of            of the assessed valuation of each
tax parcel within the Area and shall be in addition to all other taxes
permitted by law.
All interested persons affected by the establishment of the Area or tax levy,
including all owners of real estate located within the Area, will be given an
opportunity to be heard a the Hearing regarding the establishment of the Area
or the tax levy.
At the hearing, any interested persons affected by the Area may file with the
[City/Village] Clerk written objections to and may be heard orally in respect
to any issues embodied in this notice. The [Mayor and City Council/President
and Board of Trustees] shall hear and determine all protests and objections at
the hearing, and the hearing may be adjourned to another date without further
notice other than a motion to be entered upon the minutes fixing the time and
place of its adjournment.
If a petition signed by at least 51% of the electors residing within the Area
and by at least 51% of the owners of record of the land included within the
boundaries of the Area is filed with the [City/Village] Clerk within 60 days
following the final adjournment of the hearing objecting to the creation of the
Area or the levy or imposition of a tax for the provision of the Services to
the Area, no such Special Services Area may be created or no tax may be levied
or imposed.
By order of the [Mayor and City Council/President and the Board of Trustees] of
the [City/Village] of                     , Grundy County, Illinois.
Signature of [Mayor/President]
Dated this            day of                     ,           .
Attested by [City/Village] Clerk
      3.   Miscellaneous
The [City/Village] agrees to produce or file such forms, statements,
proceedings and supporting documents as may be required in a timely manner in
order to establish the Area and levy the taxes and, if deemed necessary or
advisable by its officers, to employ and pay fiscal agents, financial advisors,
attorneys, and other persons to assist the [City/Village] in these endeavors.
      4.   Repealer; effective date
All ordinances, orders and resolutions and parts thereof in conflict herewith
are and the same are hereby repealed, and this ordinance be in full force and
effect forthwith upon its passage, approval and publication as provided by law.
Dated:    
   [CITY/VILLAGE] OF                                
   ORDINANCE NO.                               
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE                      SPECIAL SERVICE AREA [OR NO.
          ] OF                               , ILLINOIS AND PROVIDING FOR THE
LEVY OF TAXES FOR THE PURPOSE OF PAYING THE COST OF PROVIDING SPECIAL SERVICES
IN AND FOR SUCH AREA
   ADOPTED BY THE
   [MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL/PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES]
   OF THE
   [CITY/VILLAGE] OF                               
   [DATE]
   ORDINANCE NO.           
   AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE
                        SPECIAL SERVICE AREA [or NO.           ] OF
                       , ILLINOIS
   AND PROVIDING FOR THE LEVY OF TAXES FOR THE PURPOSE OF
   PAYING THE COST OF PROVIDING SPECIAL SERVICES
   IN AND FOR SUCH AREA
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the 1970 Constitution of the State of
Illinois (the Constitution), the [city/Village] of                     , Grundy
County, Illinois (the City/Village), is authorized to create special service
areas in and for the [City/Village]; and
WHEREAS, special service areas are established by non-home rule units pursuant
to Section 7 (6) of Article VII of the Constitution, which provides that -
   Municipalities... which are not home rule units shall have on the powers
granted to them by law and powers... (6) to levy or impose additional taxes
upon areas within their boundaries in the manner provided by law for the
provision of special services to those areas and for the payment of debt
incurred in order to provide those special services;
And
WHEREAS, special service areas are established "in the manner provided by law"
pursuant to the provisions of "AN ACT to provide the manner of levying or
imposing taxes for the provision of special services to areas within the
boundaries of home rule units and non-home rule municipalities and counties,"
approved September 21, 1973, as amended (the ACT), and pursuant to the
provisions of the Revenue Act of 1939 of the State of Illinois, as amended; and
WHEREAS, it is in the public interest that the area hereinafter described be
established as the                      Special Service Area [or No.
          ] of the [City/Village]; and
WHEREAS, the Area is compact and contiguous and totally within the boundaries
of the [City/Village]; and
WHEREAS, the Area will benefit specially from the services to be provided by
the [City/Village] (the Services), and the Services are unique and in addition
to the services provided to the [City/Village] as a whole, and it is,
therefore, in the best interests of the [City/Village] that the Area be
established; and
WHEREAS, the cost of providing the Services shall be paid by the levy of a
direct annual ad valorem tax upon all taxable property within the Area; and
WHEREAS, said direct annual tax shall be levied upon all taxable property
within the Area for an indefinite period of time beginning for the year
           and shall not exceed an annual rate of            of the assessed
valuation of each tax parcel within the Area and shall be in addition to all
other taxes permitted by law; and
WHEREAS, the establishment of the Area was proposed by the [City Council/Board
of Trustees] of the [City/Village] (the [Council/Board]) pursuant to Ordinance
No.           , entitled:
   AN ORDINANCE proposing the establishment of the                      Special
Service Area [or No.           ] of                     , Illinois, and the
levy of taxes for the purpose of paying the cost of providing special services
in and for such Area.
(the Proposing Ordinance), duly adopted on                     , was considered
at a public hearing (the Hearing) held by the [Council/Board] on
                    ; and
WHEREAS, notice of the Hearing was given by publication at least once not less
than 15 days prior to the Hearing in                               , the same
being a newspaper published in the [City/Village] [or, of general circulation
with the [City/Village], there being no newspaper published therein]; and
WHEREAS, mailed notice of the Hearing was given by depositing notice in the
United States mail addressed to the person or persons in whose name the general
taxes for the last preceding year were paid on each lot, block, tract or parcel
of land lying within the Area not less than 10 days prior to the time set for
the Hearing, and in the event taxes for the last preceding year were not paid,
the notice was sent to the person or persons last listed on the tax rolls prior
to that year as the owner or owners of said property; and
WHEREAS, said notice complied with all of the applicable provisions and
requirements of the Act; and
WHEREAS, all interested persons affected by the establishment of the Area or
the levy of the tax to pay the cost of providing the Services, including all
owners of real estate located within the Area, were given and opportunity to be
heard at the Hearing regarding the establishment of the Area and the levy of
said tax and an opportunity to file objections to the establishment of the Area
or the levy of said tax; and
WHEREAS, at the Hearing, all interested persons affected by the Area were
permitted to file with the [City/Village] Clerk written objections and to be
heard orally in respect to any issue embodied in the notice given of the
Hearing; and
WHEREAS, the [Council/Board] has determined and does hereby determine that it
is in the public interest of the [City/Village] and the Area that the Area be
established;
NOW, THEREFORE, Be It Ordained by the [Mayor and City Council/President and
Board of Trustees] of the [City/Village] of                               ,
Grundy County, Illinois, as follows:
      1.   Incorporation of preambles
The preambles of this ordinance are hereby incorporated into this text as if
set out herein in full.
      2.   Final adjournment of Hearing
The Hearing was finally adjourned on                     .
      3.   Establishment of Area
(a) The                      Special Service Area [of No.           ] of the
[City/Village] is hereby established in and for the [City/Village] and shall
consist of the territory legally described in Exhibit A attached.
(b) Said territory consists of approximately            acres lying [insert a
general description of the location of the area] in the [City/Village]. An
accurate map of the Area is attached hereto and made a part hereof.
      4.   Purpose of the establishing the Area
The purpose of establishing the Area is to provide the Services to the Area,
including the operation, maintenance, repair, rehabilitation, replacement and
reconstruction of any site runoff storage area, drainage way, ditch, swale,
storm sewer, or other stormwater facility; costs of design, engineering and
other consulting services, surveying and permits, public liability insurance,
and all administrative, legal and other costs or expenses incurred in
connection therewith and with the administration of the Area, including the
repayment of any loan or debt incurred for the provision of any such Services,
all of the Services to be in and for the Area and all of said construction and
improvements to be on property now owned or to be acquired by the [City/
Village], or property in which the [City/Village] will obtain an interest
sufficient for the provision of the Services.
      5.   Tax Levy
The cost of the Services shall be paid by the levy of a direct annual ad
valorem tax upon all taxable property within the Area for an indefinite period
of time beginning for the year            and shall not exceed an annual rate
of            of the assessed valuation of each tax parcel within the Area and
shall be in addition to all other taxes permitted by law.
      6.   Filing
The [City/Village] Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this
ordinance, including an accurate map of the Area, in the office of the Grundy
County Clerk and in the office of the Grundy County Recorder forthwith after
its adoption and approval.
      7.   Repealer
All ordinances, orders and resolutions and parts thereof in conflict herewith
be and the same are hereby repealed, and this ordinance be in full force and
effect forthwith upon its adoption.
Dated:    
Approved:
[Mayor/President]
Attested, filed in my office and published in pamphlet form on               ,
20        :
Clerk of the [City/Village] of                     , Grundy County, Illinois
   E.   Appendix E; Sample Comprehensive Countywide Stormwater Program:
   CITY/VILLAGE OF                     
   RESOLUTION NO.           
   COMPREHENSIVE COUNTYWIDE STORMWATER PROGRAM
   CERTIFIED COMMUNITY AUDIT
Whereas, pursuant to the provisions of Article 11, of the Grundy County
Stormwater Ordinance (     -          ) adopted                     , the City/
Village of                     was certified by the Grundy County Stormwater
Management Committee (the 'Committee') as a certified community charged with
the enforcement of the ordinance within the City/Village; and
Whereas, the implementation and enforcement of the ordinance by the City/
Village is subject to periodic review by the Committee; and
Whereas, the Committee has requested that the City/Village complete and certify
the attached audit of the City/Village's implementation and enforcement of the
ordinance;
Now, therefore, be it resolved by the Mayor/President and City Counsel/Board of
Trustees of the City/Village of                      that the attached audit as
completed is true and correct and accurately reflects the enforcement of the
ordinance within the City/Village of                     .
Dated:                     , 20          
Approved:                      , 20          
Mayor/President
Attest:
Clerk
   F.   Appendix F; Stormwater Ordinance Self-Audit:
   GRUNDY COUNTY
   STORMWATER ORDINANCE SELF AUDIT
Name of certified community:    
Name of Stormwater Administrator:    
Phone Number:                      Email:    
Name(s) of individual(s) who served as Qualified Engineer Review Specialists:
 
       
       
       
 
Name(s) of individual(s) who served as Qualified Wetland Review Specialists:
 
       
       
       
 
What is the date(s) of the current flood insurance study for your community?
   
What are the effective panel numbers and their effective dates?
Describe the steps that your community goes through in the reviewing and
issuing of a stormwater permit from the conceptual stage of the project to the
actual issuance of the permit:
For each step in the development process, indicate if the stormwater management
is examined at that step by marking Y for Yes. If your process does not include
that step as part of the process place an N/A in the blank space:
 
         pre-annexa         zoning amendment or change
         pre-concep         Improvement Plan Stage
         Concept St         Preliminary Plat
         Final Plat         Construction stage
         Post Construction
 
Describe the process in which it is determined that a project is in compliance
with the wetland requirements of the ordinance:
Were any violations of the ordinance cited? If yes, please describe what
occurred during this violation.
How many SAA's have you developed per this ordinance?    
How many back-up SSA's have you developed per this ordinance?    
Please detail any stormwater planning, intergovernmental cooperation, or
natural resource preservation activities you are completing or have completed
over the past two years:
Inspections:
How are inspections completed during the construction of developments? Provide
all details of the inspections including the personnel, reports, and frequency.
What department(s), or outside agency, is responsible for the completion and
documentation of these inspections?
How are the results of these inspections documented and reported?
Who conducts sediment and erosion control inspections and reporting?
Describe any reporting procedures specifically for sediment and erosion
control?
Below include any pertinent information that the Stormwater Committee should be
aware of:
Number of stormwater permits issued in 20        ?    
Number of new single family dwelling unit permits issued in 20        ?    
Number of new townhome building permits issued in 20        ?    
Number of total units in the townhome permits issued in 20        ?    
Number of buildings and units of multifamily dwelling units in 20        ?    
Number of new commercial building permits issued in 20        ?    
Number of industrial building permits issued in 20        ?    
   SELF AUDIT QUESTIONS
Answer each question by either yes, no, or N/A.
   1)    Is detention always required and constructed for developments when:
      a.    Residential development exceeds 2 or more homes on 3 or more acres?
        
      b.    Multi-family development, exceeds more than 1 acre in project area?
      
      c.    Commercial or industrial development, exceeds 1 acre or when more
than 25,000 sf is hydraulically disturbed?         
      d.    Road projects, exceeds 1 acre in disturbed area?         
   2)    Has a fee-in-lieu for detention program been implemented?         
   3)    Are all stormwater facilities functional before building permits are
issued when they are in the same phase of the project?         
   4)    Is pre-development onsite Depressional storage properly preserved at a
ratio of 1:1?         
   5)    Prior to approval of the stormwater management plan, is a full field
tile investigation completed?         
If tiles are found are all tiles removed from the project site and are the
upstream tiles incorporated into the stormwater management system and all
downstream tiles properly capped?        
Are inspections completed at each step of this process?        
   6)    Is the post-development release rate less than 0.1 cfs/acre, as
verified by acceptable event hydrograph routing methods?        
   7)    Is retention always provided for directly connected impervious
areas?        
   8)    Are stormwater storage facilities designed such that predevelopment
peak runoff rates for a 100 year critical duration rainfall events are not
exceeded with the assumption that the primary restrictor is blocked?        
   9)    Are developments being designed such that erosion and sediment control
planning are incorporated into all stages of construction of the project?
        
   10)    Is runoff from disturbed areas of the site being directed to erosion
and sediment control facilities prior to discharge from the project site?
        
   11)    Are all project sites shutdown for winter months in accordance with
the ordinance?         
   12)    Have the major erosion control methods been designed to include the
hydraulic and hydrologic design requirements?         
   13)    Have any areas of the disturbed areas of the project exceeded 40
acres?         
   14)    If the disturbed areas exceeds 40 acres has the Administrator
approved the larger area?        
   15)    Have the erosion and sediment control plans been submitted in
accordance with the ordinance?         
   16)    Have all disturbed sites been inspected weekly or after a one-half
inch of rainfall or greater?         
   17)    Have repairs been made in the event of a failure of any erosion and
sediment control measure?         
   18)    Has mud or debris tracked onto the road been removed daily at the end
of the workday or sooner as directed by the authority maintaining the
roadway?        
   19)    Have there been complaints provided to the City/Village in regard to
the lack of proper erosion and sediment control facilities?         
   20)    Are FEMA, FIRM, BFE's always utilized and adhered to?         
   21)    For areas with less than 640 tributary acres, are BFE's specifically
determined and verified by approved hydrologic and hydraulic models?         
   22)    Do all appropriate uses which change the regulatory floodway or BFE,
wait to start construction until a CLOMR is issued from IDNR/OWR and FEMA?
      
   23)    Has any development occurred in the regulatory floodplain that
singularly or cumulatively creates any increase in flood stage or velocity
offsite, or a damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood heights or
velocity on site, or a threat to the public health, safety, and welfare?
        
   24)    Have any buildings been built in the existing or proposed regulatory
floodplain prior to LOMR being obtained from FEMA unless the building met all
the building protection standards?         
   25)    Have you approved an activity which requires a CLOMR or LOMR?
        
   26)    Are the lowest opening for new developments approved above the FPE?
     
   27)    Is compensatory storage provided at a ratio of 1.5:1?         
   28)    Has any structure or building been constructed in the floodway?
        
   29)    Before any development in or near Waters of the U.S., or in or near
isolated wetlands or farmed wetlands, has a written report identifying and
evaluating the boundaries, location, limits, area and quality of all onsite
wetlands been submitted?         
   30)    Has the presence and limits of wetland areas been determined by a
wetland areas been determined by a wetland delineation as conducted in
accordance with the 1987 Manual?         
   31)    Have required buffers been identified on the developer's engineering
plans?         
   32)    Have required buffers been protected by appropriate easements and are
those easements indicated on all plats of the development?         
   33)    Have maintenance requirements for the proposed buffers for wetlands
been noted on the plats of the developments?         
   34)    Have any developments used any buffer width averaging?         
   35)    Have all developments complied with the required buffer widths in
accordance with the ordinance?         
   36)    Have all buffers been stabilized in accordance with the ordinance?
        
   37)    Have all buffer areas been established and maintained free from
development?         
   38)    Have any federally funded actions occurred that are inconsistent with
E.O. 119988 on Floodplain Management, which prohibits federal funding of
projects located in the floodplain unless there is no practicable alternative?
        
   39)    Have you experienced any problems interpreting or administering the
floodplain regulations of the Grundy County Stormwater Ordinance?         
   40)    Does your community have current FEMA maps/studies for public
inspection?         
   41)    Have you experienced any problems using the FEMA maps/studies?
        ___
   42)    If any residential building(s) located in the floodplain have been
substantially damaged, have the buildings been brought into compliance with the
floodplain regulations of the Grundy County Stormwater Ordinance for elevation
of lowest floor including basement?         
   43)    Have all floodplain development activities including mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling and construction of
fences received the necessary stormwater permits?         
   44)    If any non-residential structure(s) have been structurally dry
floodproofed, has a FEMA floodproofing certificate been completed for those
structures?         
   45)    For any buildings having been built on crawl spaces, does the inside
grade equal the outside grade on at least one side and has a square inch of
opening been provided for every square foot enclosed below the base flood
elevation? Are the openings located no more than one foot above the existing
grade?         
   46)    Have all the required federal, state, and local permits been received
prior to the issuance of a stormwater permit?         
   47)    After a flood event, have damage determinations been made for all
damaged buildings located in the floodplain to determine substantially damaged
structures which must comply with the floodplain regulations of the Grundy
County Stormwater Ordinance?         
   48)    Have all new and replacement water supply systems, wells, sanitary
sewer lines and on-site waste disposal systems been designed, permitted, and
constructed to ensure that all manholes or other above ground openings located
below the flood protection elevation (FPE) are watertight?         
   49)    Have any developments in the special flood hazard area (SFHA),
included locating or storing of chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials,
animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable liquids, pollutants, or other hazardous
or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation (FPE) been properly
permitted?         
   50)    Has your community notified adjacent communities in writing at least
30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of a
watercourse?         
   51)    Have manufactured homes or recreation vehicles (RVs) on site for more
than 180 consecutive days been properly permitted to meet the anchoring and
elevation requirements of the floodplain regulations of the Grundy County
Stormwater Ordinance?         
   52)    If any tool sheds, detached garages, and other minor accessory
structures on an existing single-family platted lot have been constructed with
the lowest floor below the flood protection elevation, do they meet the
floodplain regulations of the Grundy County Stormwater Ordinance?         
   53)    Are stormwater permits required and issued for all activities
disturbing more than 50,000 square feet of ground, and any development or
substantial improvement in the regulation floodplain?         
   54)    Are all stormwater facility designs and floodplain submittals
prepared, signed, and sealed by a professional engineer?         
   55)    Is all mandatory information, as defined in the ordinance submitted
for every permit application?         
   56)    Is the application signed and attested by all owners and developers?
        
   57)    Is all mandatory information as listed in the ordinance included in
every plan set submittal?         
   58)    Is all mandatory information as listed in the ordinance included in
every stormwater submittal?         
   59)    Is all mandatory information as listed in the ordinance included in
every wetland submittal?         
   60)    Is all mandatory information as listed in the ordinance included in
every floodplain submittal?         
   61)    Have all wetland delineations been reviewed by a qualified wetland
review specialist?         
   62)    Have all wetland delineations been reviewed by a qualified wetland
review specialist?         
   63    Has a qualified wetland review specialist provided to the
Administrator a written opinion on the applicability of current federal permits
and noting any special procedures which shall be followed in connection with
the proposed activity?         
   64)    Have all wetland submittals included:
      a)    Calculation of required buffers?         
      b)    All existing and proposed impacted or undisturbed onsite wetlands?
       
      c)    Location of buffers?         
      d)    Planting plan for buffers?         
      e)    All required wetland management activities?         
   65)    Has any development been permitted by your community that has caused
a wetland impact?         
   66)    Has any dredging or filling of any wetland having an FQI greater than
25 occurred in your community?         
   67)    Has any cumulative wetland dredging or filling in excess of 0.25
acres occurred in your community?         
   68)    Has any dredging or filling occurred within a farmed wetland in your
community?         
   69)    Are record drawings submitted and final inspections completed to
verify the development was constructed in conformance with the permit?         
   70)    Is necessary long-term maintenance provided for in one of the two
approved ways?         
      a)    Responsibility is dedicated, transferred, or conveyed, and accepted
by a public entity and a special service area has been incorporated?         
      b)    Responsibility is maintained by a homeowners association or similar
association or conveyed to one or more persons and a backup special service
area has been incorporated?         
   71)    Are all necessary inspections being completed?         
   72)    Has any ordinance violation or permit violation been issued?         
   73)    Have wetland impacts been permitted by your community within exempt
developments?         
   74)    Has a variance been issued?         
   75)    Are qualified engineer review specialists reviewing every stormwater
permit?         
   76)    Are qualified wetland review specialists reviewing all appropriate
permits?         
   77)    Is appropriate performance security, as defined in the ordinance
being provided?         
   G.   Appendix G; Developer's Statement:
   DEVELOPER'S STATEMENT
   Right to Draw on Securities
I,                               , do hereby grant to the Administrator of
                    . The right to draw on performance security posted in
accordance with the Stormwater Permit            for the purpose of completing
any and all Stormwater Facilities and completing or maintaining Sediment and
Erosion Control Measures included in the referenced permit. The decision to
draw on the security shall be at the discretion of the Administrator. I further
grant the right to enter the property for the purpose of performing the work to
whoever the Administrator designates and agree to identify            against
any increased costs attributable to concurrent activities or conflicts between
the Administrators design's and any other contractors on site. I further
warrant that I am a duly authorized representative of the developer with the
authority to make this statement, and that this statement shall remain binding
until final inspection and acceptance of all permitted Stormwater Facilities.
STATEMENT FOR:          
   Developer
BY:             
   Name and Signature
   RELEASED BY FINAL ACCEPTANCE
FOR:             
   County/Community
BY:             
   Administrator
DATE:          
   H.   Appendix H; Erosion And Sediment Control Inspection Report:
   Erosion and sediment control inspection report
Project Name:        File No.:                
Inspection Date:                     Time:                      Inspected By:
                    
Stage of Construction
         Pre-construction Meeting          Rough Grading          Finish
Grading
         Clearing & Grubbing           Building Construction          Final
Stabilization
YES NO N/A    Inspection Checklist
   1) Have all disturbed areas requiring temporary or permanent stabilization
been stabilized? Seeded? Mulched? Graveled?
   2) Are soil stockpiles adequately stabilized with seeding and/or sediment
trapping measures?
   3) Does permanent vegetation provide adequate stabilization?
   4) Have sediment trapping facilities been constructed as a first step in
disturbance activity?
   5) For perimeter sediment trapping measures, are earthen structures
stabilized?
   6) Are sediment basins installed where needed?
   7) Are finished cut and fill slopes adequately stabilized?
   8) Are on-site channels and outlets adequately stabilized?
   9) Do all operational storm sewer inlets have adequate inlet protection?
   10) Are stormwater conveyance channels adequately stabilized with shell
lining and/or outlet protection?
   11) Is in-stream construction conducted using measures to minimize channel
damage?
   12) Are temporary stream crossings of non-erodible material installed where
applicable?
   13) Is necessary restabilization of in-stream construction complete?
   14) Are utility trenches stabilized properly?
   15) Are soil and mud kept off public roadways at intersections with site
access roads?
   16) Have all temporary control structures that are no longer needed been
removed? Have all control structure repairs and sediment removal been
performed?
   17) Are properties and waterways downstream from development adequately
protected from soil erosion and sediment deposition due to increases in peak
stormwater runoff?
I. Appendix I; Grundy County Stormwater Administrative Manual:
Section A: Introduction
The Grundy County Stormwater Administrative Manual is intended to help the
Stormwater Committee and staff of Grundy County to administer the code. This
manual will also be helpful to certified communities as they implement the
ordinance for their community. Included are helpful discussions on intent of
the sections that are included within the ordinance. The manual also provides
the user the tools in which to implement the ordinance.
I. ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE
Section B Duties and Responsibilities for Administration:
General:
There are two distinct groups who are responsible for the implementation of the
Grundy County Stormwater ordinance. Those groups are:
      -   Stormwater Committee
      -   Administrator
The duties of the two entities do not however, include the responsibility of
each municipality and the County from following the National Flood Insurance
Program (NFIP). Following this program each group would be required to keep
records and follow the requirements of the NFIP that is included within the
ordinance. The only difference is that neither the Stormwater Committee nor the
Administrator is responsible to seeing that the process is followed.
Duties:
The Stormwater Committee and the Administrator are responsible for the
following duties:
Administrator: The Administrator position is appointed by the Certified
Community. For the County it would be the position held by the Administrator of
the County. Even though each Certified Community has their own Administrator of
the plan, the County Administrator holds the responsibility to ensure that each
certified community is fulfilling their obligation. Whether the Administrator
is of the Certified Community or the County the responsibility remains the same
to enforce the Stormwater Ordinance. Each Certified Community can have
appointed people under the Administrator to regulate the stormwater management
permits and restrictions of the Grundy County Stormwater Ordinance. Those
appointed people or firms would bring the expertise necessary to review and
analyze projects or issues that requires compliance with the Stormwater
Ordinance.
For most communities the issues of enforcement of stormwater provisions usually
is assigned from the Administrator to the Public Works Director or a review
engineer of that municipality or both. If a municipality does not have either a
Publics Works Director or Administrator, the County would provide assistance
through staff including a Qualified Review Specialist appointed by the County.
The Administrator of the Stormwater Ordinance will be responsible for any
permits that are required to be obtained by an outside agency. This position
also requires overseeing of the wetlands delineated for each project. This does
require that a Qualified Review Specialist or the Qualified Wetland Review
Specialist (where applicable) has reviewed the permit application and makes
recommendation to either deny or to recommend the project. The Administrator
would take the position of ensuring that all recommendations be provided,
either negative or positive, before making a decision to permit the stormwater
management permit. The decision of the Administrator would then need to
determine whether or not modification to the plan is required or whether the
plan meets the minimum standards as outline in the Stormwater Ordinance.
Variances are considered by the Administrator. The Administrator would then be
responsible to ensure that the proper notifications of adjacent property owners
and other communities have been completed. If the variance once granted
requires that the flood insurance rate be increased by FEMA according to the
NFIP, then the Administrator has to provide that information to the applicant
of the variance. All information and requests to the COE for Conditional Letter
of Map Revision (CLOMR) or Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) shall be provided to
the Administrator for review. These records shall be carefully kept by the
Administrator and designated staff.
Each Administrator can develop their own forms for applications, variances,
inspections, and filing system. Permits for wetland impacts for wetlands that
are considered non-jurisdictional by the C.O.E. are issued by the Administrator
of the County. The Administrator is also responsible for inspections of the
projects including as-built conditions after construction has taken place. All
complaints that are received shall be reviewed by the Administrator and be
included into a data bank that will follow the complaint to resolution.
Complaints may be filed by anyone and should include details, photos and
investigation inspection reports that are completed by the Administrator's
staff.
The Administrator is responsible for the documentation of each Certified
Community to determine whether compliance to the Stormwater Ordinance has been
followed. This would include other permits and approvals from outside agencies.
Stormwater Committee:
The Stormwater Committee is responsible for the overseeing of the programs
implemented by each of the Certified Communities by the guidance of the
Administrator of the County. Duties include hearing variances, and reviewing
certifications for communities and specialists. The Stormwater Committee will
also interpret the Stormwater Ordinance when required by a developer when a
dispute in interpretation between the Administrator and the developer occur.
Section C: Requirements of the Qualified Review Specialist
General:
Qualified Review Specialists are an essential piece of the review of the
stormwater management permits. They are responsible to ensure that the analysis
is complete and founded, and complies with the ordinance and other agency
requirements. The Review Specialist would coordinate the review process with
all agencies and staff and once complete would provide the recommendation to
the Administrator for their consideration. The Administrator will keep a
listing of all Review Specialists that comply with requirements for either
general review or as wetland specialists. The Wetland Review Specialist
analysis would not be necessary if a permit from the COE is required.
Requirements for Qualified Review Specialists - Stormwater Planning:
A Qualified Review Specialist shall meet the following minimum requirements:
   -   Registered in the State of Illinois as a Professional Engineer
      -   Expertise in stormwater management by training and/or education
      -   Design and permitting of stormwater management facilities
      -   Experience with the identification of floodplains and floodways
including familiarity with maps, policies and procedure of FEMA and IDNR-OWR
      -   Erosion and sediment control practices and procedures
      -   Construction practices and inspection procedures
      -   Completed Qualified Review Specialist form with PE seal and signature
      -   Filed Qualified Review Specialist statement form that is held by the
Grundy County Land Use Department
      -   Paid current fee as prescribed by Resolution #                
Requirements for Qualified Wetland Review Specialist:
A Qualified Wetland Review Specialist shall meet the following minimum
requirements:
      -   Complete an approved wetland delineation course
      -   Hold a Bachelors degree in earth science, biological science or
engineering together with at least one of the following types of experience in
the Upper Midwest
      -   Personnel involvement in the design of a minimum of ten wetland
mitigation areas
      -   Three full years of experience on wetland projects
      -   Completion of a minimum of at least 100 wetland delineations
      -   300 hours of field review of wetland indicators or 6 years full time
experience consulting on wetland projects
      -   Complete, sign, and professionally seal the Qualified Wetland Review
Specialist Statement
      -   Paid current fee as prescribed in Resolution #               
      -   Filed the Qualified Wetland Review Specialist statement form with the
Land Use Department
As part of the submittal the applicant shall prepare a thorough explanation of
experience which includes the following information:
      -   Education, granting institutions
      -   Work experience that includes work information such as the employer,
position held, name and address of company, and length of employment.
References shall be included that verify that this information is true and also
the quality of the work while employed by that company
      -   Professional experience that provides all details of the type of work
activities performed, professional licenses, certifications, and continuing
education credits
The Administrator shall notify the applicant whether they will be included in
the listing within 30 days of filing. If the applicant is denied, they may
appeal the decision within 30 days with the Committee. Each appeal will receive
a proper hearing in accordance with the ordinance.
Review Specialist Qualification Committee:
The Chairman of the County Board shall appoint a Review Specialist
Qualification Committee (RSQC) shall hear all appeals from decisions that are
made by the Administrator. The RSQC shall consist of three members from an
annually updated listing of review specialist. The primary responsibilities of
the RSQC are to:
      -   Hear appeals of disqualified applicants for appointment to the
Qualified Review or Qualified Wetland Review Specialist list.
      -   Hear complaints from Administrator concerning investigations of
failure of the specialist to discharge the duties properly.
      -   Serve copies of complaint records upon the specialist and all
communities for whom the specialist has done reviews.
      -   Decide whether or not to suspend or revoke the certification of the
specialist based upon the findings of the hearing.
Section D General Provisions:
Exempt or Grandfathered projects:
The Grundy County Stormwater Ordinance does not apply to those projects which
were in process after the adoption of the code or effective date of the
ordinance. Since projects take a considerable amount of money and time from the
developers, legal counsel and engineering consultants. It is also a time
consuming task for those reviewing the development documents such as staff of
the municipality or county and their consultants.
The Stormwater Committee ultimately decides whether a project is exempt from
the new provisions in the ordinance. By being exempt does not mean that the
project is exempt from stormwater management requirements but would not need to
come to strict compliance with the new provisions of the Stormwater Ordinance.
However, prior to this final determination from the Stormwater Committee, the
municipality needs to consider all projects as being far enough along such that
it would be a major endeavor to redo the analysis of the stormwater management
project under the new provisions. To be considered exempt, the plan for the
project must identify how stormwater from the project is to be managed and the
communities review authority must concur that sufficient engineering has been
performed and approved by the municipality showing that the plan is viable. In
addition, if legally binding documents have been approved by the municipality
and the developer that address stormwater management, these agreements would
also be honored as long as those legal documents were approved prior to the
adoption of the Stormwater Ordinance.
Each community that has a listing for consideration of exempt project must
submit those as part of the annual application for certification. This listing
included with the application would need to be applied for by January 1,
20        . The Stormwater Committee would review the listing and municipal or
county projects from that representative zone and would have the right to
remove a project. Removal from the list means the project will be reviewed
individually. The Committee would pass the list through a simple motion but
would require a majority vote for all removals of projects from the list.
Wetland dredging or filling that have not been completed in projects would not
be exempt from these provision. The mitigation requirements would still be
applied to these wetland areas regardless of any previous jurisdictional
determinations by other agencies.
Regulations:
The Stormwater Ordinance is applicable equally to all municipalities and
unincorporated counties. School Districts and local road projects are examples
of units of governments which can develop a property without obtaining a
stormwater management permit even when those entities exist within a Certified
Community.
Certified communities issue their own stormwater management permits. The review
however of the stormwater management documents and analysis would need to be
completed by a Qualified Review Specialist as listed. However, if a wetland is
part of the parcel to be developed the Certified Community must obtain a Grundy
County Wetland Permit. Certified Communities may elect to have Grundy County
review the wetlands subject to the regulations of the ordinance. Note that it
is possible to have as many as three agencies issuing permits or wetlands on a
development. Those agencies include:
      -   COE Permit
      -   Stormwater Management Permit by the Certified Community
      -   Wetland Permit issued by Grundy County
Note that a wetland permit by the County is not required if the wetland is not
being filled or dredging or the wetlands impacted are all regulated by COE. The
Certified Community Stormwater Permit will cover any wetlands remaining on-
site.
Municipalities within more than one County:
The enabling legislation of this ordinance allows communities located within
multiple counties to choose which county stormwater ordinance that it will
adopt or certify as a community with. In order to opt for another county's
stormwater ordinance, that county's stormwater ordinance needs to have its own
stormwater management committee and plan in place. Legal counsel from Grundy
County should be consulted in order to determine the best viable choice for
that community.
Even though a community in multiple counties may elect to have its entire
community included within the adoption of the Grundy County Stormwater
Ordinance, it does not allow for Grundy County to enforce the ordinance beyond
the legal limits of Grundy County. Only intergovernmental agreements may be
used for enforcement of the ordinance.
When a Certified Community chooses to include its entire community as the area
adopting the Grundy County Stormwater Ordinance, it will not be able to take
any portion out after that time.
Section E Required Information for Stormwater Management Permit:
This section outlines a permit applicant's requirements for filing an appeal of
either a permit denial or any special conditions attached to the permit
approval. The Stormwater Committee is responsible for conducting a hearing and
for documentation of all evidence. The applicant has the ability to appeal the
decision of the Stormwater Committee to the decision making authority. Further
appeal would be held through court proceedings under the Illinois
Administrative Review Law.
Section F Certified Community Enforcement:
As defined previous Certified Community refers to any city, village or the
County which has received approval of the Stormwater Committee for the
delegation of authority for enforcement of the ordinance. The Certified
Community receives the authority or permitting that the ordinance delegates
with the exception of wetland permits. Permitting means that each community
would have the ability to review issue and enforce these permits. If the
development is located within this community that is in good standing with the
Grundy County Stormwater Committee, and there are no wetland that are not under
COE jurisdiction impacted, then a review from the County of that development is
not necessary. All permits for wetlands under the authority of the COE would be
permitted by the COE exclusively and again a review by the County would not be
necessary.
In order to become a Certified Community a municipality would need to complete
a Petition for Certification that would be due within 90 days from the adoption
of the ordinance and every June following that application year. The Stormwater
Committee would then be responsible for the review and approval of all
petitions for certification within 60 days of receiving the filing.
Certified Communities are responsible for the keeping of all records pertaining
to the certification. This will require that all developments that receive a
stormwater management permit would have a specific record that would include
the approval documents, and plans. All inspections and as- built drawings/plans
would also need to be kept with that record, once available.
An annual report of all of the annual stormwater management permits shall be
provided to the Administrator. A form included in Part Two is available that
will aid in this records keeping and reporting.
Complaints against a Certified Community, the Administrator will direct those
to the community. The Administrator will expect that full cooperation will be
given to ensure that any complaints are resolved in a timely manner. Complaint
investigation may require that all submittals for the project be provided to
the Administrator for review. Field inspections of the site may also be
required. The Administrator will make a final decision on the complaint and
will require that the community come into compliance with the ordinance.
Section G Variances:
The ordinance cannot always include all situations that may occur during the
development stages. Therefore variances are allowed in a few unique situations
where some of the performance standards in the ordinance would not seem
appropriate. For those situations the applicant would have the ability to ask
for a variance. There are some performance standards that will not be varied
where state and federal law would be imposed. It should also noted that if
repeated variances that are similar in nature are requested by the Certified
Communities, an ordinance amendment should be considered by the Stormwater
Committee under the advisement of the Administrator.
Variance requests need to provide the following information:
      1.    Actual variance requested
      2.    Why the current ordinance cannot be met
      3.    What is the impact of the variance
      4.    Demonstration that the minimum variance is being applied for
      5.    All other standards have been met
The variance proceedings will include a public hearing in order to allow for
all entities affected and the general public to openly provide comments. All
property owners within 250 feet will need to be notified. A public notice must
also be published that includes:
      1)    The specific location of the development, referencing nearby
landmarks, streets, the Township, Section, Range and Quarter Section.
      2)    The name of any impacted waterway or wetland or appropriate
designation if not name applies.
      3)    The name and mailing address of the applicant.
      4)    The name and mailing address of the permit applicant's agent.
      5)    A description of the development.
      6)    A statement of what performance standard is requested to be varied.
      7)    A statement of the proposed variance to the performance standard
and what degree of compliance is being achieved in lieu of the full performance
standard.
      8)    A location where plans and supporting documents for the proposed
project may be viewed.
      9)    The effective date and the closing date of the public notice, and
the name and mailing address of the person and organization to whom comments
should be sent. The Administrator should be the individual to receive and
respond to public comments.
The Administrator shall provide a statement in writing concerning the variance
that includes their recommendation to approve or deny the variance. This
statement from the Administrator will be provided along with the applicant's
information to the Stormwater Committee for their consideration. All
information concerning the variance shall also be provided to every
Administrator within the effected watershed.
It should be noted that any variances on the provisions of non jurisdictional
wetlands are made only by the County.
Section H Performance Security:
The developer is responsible for the posting of a performance security before
any construction takes place. The form of the securities required is a decision
that may be made by the Administrator although a letter of credit is preferred.
When considering accepting the bond posted by a contractor to the developer the
community should also consider whether the community has the right to draw on
those bonds to be sure that they are adequately protected.
In order to develop the amount of the performance security a cost estimate for
the construction costs of the stormwater facilities should be completed by the
developers engineer and reviewed by the Qualified Review Specialist for
accuracy. The costs would include but not be limited to mass grading, storm
sewer, culverts, curb and gutter, stormwater structures related to the
conveyance of and storage of run off, and subsurface drainage systems (not
including sump pumps and down spouts). Once a review is completed the cost
estimate will be given to the Administrator for their consideration.
The Administrator should also be provided a cost estimate for the soil erosion
and sediment control systems. This will ensure that these systems will also be
completed as directed in the approved plans.
When the County issues a permit for a non-jurisdictional wetland, an additional
security will be required to ensure that when the mitigation option chosen is
at a wetland mitigation facility. This security remains in effect until the
wetland mitigation facility meets performance criteria, or may be drawn upon to
meet mitigation for non-performance.
J. Application Forms; Checklists:
Application forms:
   Stormwater Management Permit
Date Application Received:       
Date Permit Issued:       
Name(s), Address(es), day phone number(s) of Applicant(s):
Name(s), Address(es), day phone number(s) of Owner(s):
Indicate which submittals apply to application:
Application forms:
Check the applicable submittal:
Stormwater submittal:    
Flood plain submittal:    
Wetland submittal:    
No special management areas encroach the development:           
Names, addresses and telephone numbers of all adjoining property owners within
250 feet of the development are to be provided on separate sheets. Each
adjoining property owners name, common address and legal description need to be
provided on those sheets.
   
   
Street address
1/4 Section, Township and Range
   
Community
   
   
Name of local governing authority
P.I.N.
   
Watershed planning area and tributary
 
Is any portion of this project now complete?          Yes          No, if
"yes", explain in description portion.
I hereby certify that all information presented in this application is true and
accurate to the best of my knowledge. I have read and understand the Grundy
County Stormwater Management Ordinance, and fully intend to comply with those
provisions.
Signature of Developer      Date
I have read and understand the Grundy County Stormwater Management Ordinance,
and fully intend to comply with those provisions.
Signature of Owner      Date
   Grundy County Stormwater Ordinance
   Wetland Impacts and Mitigation Permit Application
   Grundy County Land Use Department
   1320 Union Street
   Morris, Il 60450
   (815) 941-3228, Fax (815) 941-3432
Certified Community:          
Date Received:          
Stormwater Application/Permit No. (assigned by community):    
Applicant name:          
Address:          
Day Telephone Number:          
Fax Number:          
Email address:          
Owner name:          
Address:          
Day Telephone Number:          
Fax Number:          
Email Address:          
Check all of the following conditions which are applicable to the project:
    If the application contemplates mitigation for the wetland impact by the
payment of a fee in lieu of mitigation, a permit fee of $1,000.00 is required.
    If the application contemplates mitigation for the wetland impact by the
purchase of credits from a wetland mitigation bank system, the permit fee of
$1,000.00 is required.
    If the application contemplates mitigation for the wetland impact within a
proposed wetland mitigation facility, then a building permit fee of $2,500.00
is required.
Provide a description of the proposed development:
Location of the development:
Street address:          
Municipality:          
Watershed and Tributary Effected:       
Legal Description:
   
   
   
1/4 section
Township
Range
 
PIN:           -           -               -               
Under Penalty of Intentional Misrepresentation and/or perjury, I declare that I
have examined and/or made this application and it is true and correct to the
best of my knowledge and belief, I agree to comply with all provisions of this
ordinance. I realize that the information that I have affirmed forms a basis
for the issuance of a wetland impacts and mitigation permit applied for and for
the approval of plans in connection therewith shall not be construed to permit
any activity upon said premises or use thereof in violation of any provision of
any applicable ordinance or to excuse the owner or his successors in title from
complying therewith.
___________________________________ ______________
Signature of applicant        Date
___________________________________ ______________
Signature of owner        Date
The following is for office use only.
Permit Fee:       Date Received:    
Check Number:       Received by:    
Mitigation Facility Costs:                      Mitigation Bank Costs:
                    
Fee-in-lieu Costs:       
Performance Security: Date:            Security Type:            Amount:
           Expiration Date:           
Final approvals: Permit No.                 Date:                     
Approved by/Title:          
Notes:
   CERTIFIED COMMUNITY FORM FOR EXEMPT PROJECTS
Name of Community/Unincorporated Area:
Name of the Project:   
Name:    
Address:    
Title:    
Check which condition for the exemption applies to the above listed project:
   Substantial Development has commenced
   Stormwater Development Plan provides:
   -   Minimum detention of 0.15 cfs/acre release rate
   -   Designed conveyance system for flow rates up to base flood with no
damage
   -   Soil erosion and sediment control with Illinois Urban Manual
Provide below a description of the project including details of the site, area,
drainage area, project purpose and the intended end use. Details should also
include the estimated time until completion of the project:
Location of the proposed project:    
Name of Waterway Impact from project:    
Provide a copy of the legal description of the project.
I certify that the information submitted is accurate, true and complete for
this review of exemption.
Signature of Submitter       Date
   Office Use Only
Municipal Approval       
Signature       Date:     
Approved by Village Board or Council:       
Final Approval       
Date:       Signature:    
Administrator:       
Special Conditions of the Exemption (if applicable):
   CERTIFIED COMMUNITY ANNUAL FORM FOR PROJECT STATUS
Community:        Date:    
Name/Title:       
Address:    
Telephone No. (        )       
Email Address:       
Project Information:
Project Name:          
Site Location:          
Section/Township/Range:    
Check components that affect project:
     Stormwater      Floodplain       Wetlands
Check Phase of Construction:
     Preconstruction      Construction Phase      Post construction
Provide a description of the tasks completed during the year:
Provide a description of the tasks that may be completed during the following
year:
I hereby certify that all tasks completed during this year comply with the
Grundy County Stormwater Management Ordinance, and that all information
presented in this submittal is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
Signature of Submitter         Date
   GRUNDY COUNTY STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SUBMITTAL CHECKLIST
Applicant:          
Reviewer:          
Stormwater Permit No.:          
The following tables contain checklists of the requirements that will be used
toward the review for a stormwater management submittal. Not all of the
requirements listed will pertain to each project. If the requirement does not
apply to the subject project please provide an explanation in the comment box
provided, or on additional sheets provided in the submittal.
   PROJECT OVERVIEW
Identifier
Requirement
Comments
1A
Completed Stormwater Permit application
1B
Copy of a completed Joint Application form with transmittal letters to the
appropriate agencies (wetland or floodplain submittals)
1C
Copies of other relevant permits or approvals (includes applications if permits
have not been issued)
1D
Narrative description of development, existing and proposed conditions, and
project planning principles considered, including BMPs utilized
1E
Subsurface drainage investigation report
 
Name of Applicant:          
Signature:           Date:    
Name of Reviewer:          
Signature:           Date:    
Project Information:
Project Name:    
Site location:          
Legal Description Attach.
Size of parcel:          
Please check the following activities that would apply to this project:
      Residential       Commercial       Industrial       Agricultural
      Other (stipulate                     )
The site has the following constraints:
      Floodplain       Floodway       Wetlands
Qualified Review Specialist Signature:    
Print Name:          
Date:       
Qualified Wetland Review Specialist Signature:
Print Name:          
Date:       
   STORMWATER SUBMITTAL
Identifier
Requirement
Comments
2A
Narrative description of the existing and proposed site conditions. Include
description of off-site conditions.
2B
Schedule for implementation of the site stormwater plan.
Site runoff calculations:
2C
Documentation of the procedures/assumptions used to calculate hydrologic and
hydraulic conditions for the sizing of major and minor systems.
2D
Cross-section data for open channels.
2E
Hydraulic grade line and water surface elevations under design conditions.
2F
Hydraulic grade line and water surface elevations under base flood conditions.
2G
Site runoff and storage calculations.
2H
Calculation of hydraulically connected impervious area and corresponding
retention volume.
2I
Documentation of the procedures/assumptions used to calculate hydrologic and
hydraulic conditions for determining the allowable release rate.
2J
Documentation of the procedures/assumptions used to calculate on-site
depressional storage.
2K
Documentation of the procedures/assumptions used to calculate hydrologic and
hydraulic conditions for determining the storage volume.
2L
Elevation-area-storage data.
2M
Elevation-discharge date.
 
   FLOODPLAIN SUBMITTAL
Identifier
Requirement
Comments
3A
Regulatory floodplain boundary determination
3B
Provide source of flood profile information
3C
Provide all hydrologic and hydraulic study information for site-specific
floodplain studies, unnumbered Zone A area elevation determinations, and
floodplain map revisions
3D
Floodway hydrologic and hydraulic analyses for the following conditions:
3E
Existing conditions (land use and stream system)
3F
Proposed conditions (land use and stream system)
3G
Tabular summary of 100-year flood elevations and discharges for existing and
proposed conditions
3H
Calculations used for model development
3I
Floodplain fill and compensatory storage calculations for below and above 10-
year flood elevation
3J
Tabular summary for below and above 10-year flood elevation or fill,
compensatory storage, and compensatory storage ratios provided in proposed plan
3K
Floodproofing measures
3L
Narrative discussion of flood proofing measures including material
specifications, calculations, design details, operation summary, etc.
3M
Flood easements when required by the countywide ordinance or local jurisdiction
 
   WETLAND SUBMITTAL
Identifier
Requirement
Comments
4A
Wetland delineation report (COE format)
4B
Calculation of required buffer (including width, size and vegetation quality)
4C
Wetland delineation plan view drawing
4C1
Location of existing and proposed impacted or undisturbed wetlands
4C2
Location of buffers
4C3
Planting plan for buffer area
4C4
Identify all required wetland management activities
4C5
Submittal to the USACOE for permit application
 
   PLAN SET SUBMITTAL
Identifier
Requirement
Comments
5A
All drawings should be signed and sealed by a PE registered in the state of
Illinois
5B
Site Topographic Map
5B1
Map scale at 1 in = 100 feet accurate to +/- 0.5 feet
5B2
Existing and proposed contours on-site and within 100 feet of the site
5B3
Existing and proposed drainage patterns and watershed boundaries
5B4
Delineation of pre- development regulatory floodplain/floodway limits
5B5
Delineation of post- development regulatory floodplain/floodway limits
5B6
Location of cross-sections and any other modeled features
5B7
Location of drain tiles
5B8
Location of all wetlands, lakes, ponds, etc, within normal water elevation
noted
5B9
Location of all buildings on the site
5B10
Nearest base flood elevations
5B11
FEMA and Grundy County benchmarks
5C
General Plan View Drawing(s)
5C1
Map scales at 1 in = 100 feet and accurate to +/- 0.5 feet contour interval
5C2
Existing major and minor stormwater systems
5C3
Proposed major and minor stormwater systems
5C4
Design details for stormwater facilities (ie structure and outlet work details
drawings, etc)
5C5
Scheduled maintenance program for permanent stormwater facilities including BMP
measures
5C6
Planned maintenance tasks and schedule
5C7
Identification of persons responsible for maintenance
5C8
Permanent public access maintenance easements granted or dedicated to, and
accepted by a government entity
5D
Sediment/Erosion Control Plan
5D1
Sediment/erosion control installation measures
5D2
Existing and proposed roadways, structures, parking lots, driveways and other
impervious surfaces
5D3
Limits of clearing and grading
5D4
Wetland location(s)
5D5
Proposed buffer location
5D6
Existing soil types, vegetation, and land cover conditions
5D7
List of maintenance tasks and schedule for sediment/erosion control measures
5E
Vicinity Topographic Map
5E1
Vicinity topographic map for entire area upstream of the development site and
downstream to a suitable hydraulic boundary condition
5E2
A two foot contour map is preferred at a scale readable by the reviewer
5E3
Watershed boundaries for areas draining through or from the development
5E4
Soil types, vegetation and land cover affecting runoff upstream of the site for
any area draining through the site
5E5
Location of development site within the major watersheds
 
   SECURITY SUBMITTAL
Identifier
Requirement
Comments
6A
Estimate of Probable Cost to construct stormwater facilities
6B
Development security
6B1
Schedule for the completion of stormwater facilities
6B2
Irrevocable letter of credit for 120% of the estimated probable cost to
construct the stormwater facilities
6B3
Right to draw on the security statement - signed by the holder of the security
6B4
Right to enter the development site to complete required work that is not
completed according to the schedule
6B5
Indemnification statement - signed by developer
6C
Sediment and erosion control security
6C1
Irrevocable letter of credit for 120% of the estimated probably cost to install
sediment and erosion control facilities
6C2
Right to draw on the security statement - signed by the holder of the security
6C3
Right to enter the development site to complete required work not completed
according to the work schedule
6D
Letter of Credit Requirements
6D1
Statement that indicates that the lending institution capital resources is at
least $10,000,000
6D2
Lending institution has an office location within the Chicago Metropolitan Area
6D3
Lending institution is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
6D4
Allows Administrator to withdraw without consent of the developer
6D5
Allows Administrator to withdraw within 45 days of the expiration date of the
letter of credit (as shown below)
 
   ON BANK LETTERHEAD
   IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT
   Amount: U.S. $                                              
TO:                 Date:    
      Issuer:    
      Letter of Credit No.:    
      Developer:    
      Subdivision:    
      Unit No.:    
      Expiration Date:    
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We hereby issue this Irrevocable Letter of Credit in your favor up to the
aggregate amount of                                              
($               ) Dollars for the account of
                                                        .
This Letter of Credit is issued for the purposes of:
A) Facilitating the construction of subdivision improvements and dedications
for the above stated unit and subdivision, including, but not limited to,
streets, curbs, gutters, waste water sewers, improvements as set forth in the
drawings, specifications, plats and engineering required by the          and
all applicable Ordinances (the "improvements");
B) Securing obligations contained in an Annexation Agreement between the
                and                                  ;
C) Providing funds for uncompleted Improvements;
D) Securing fees, dedications and contributions associated with such
subdivision.
These funds are fully available by your drafts drawn on us at sight and
accompanied by the following documents:
1. Statement signed by an authorized official of the (Village/City/County)
certifying that the amount drafted represents all or a portion of the funds
required to complete or corrects Improvements in accordance with the approved
subdivisions plans or specifications or comply with such other requirements of
the Village including those provided herein.
2. Copy of written notice to us, as an issuer, dated not less than ten (10)
days prior to the date of your draft(s) hereunder describing the specific work
yet to be performed or to be corrected or describing such other basis for the
withdrawal of the amount drafted; and
3. Statement setting forth that drafts drawn hereunder are attributable to Unit
      of                      (Subdivision), secured by              (Issuer
Name),              (Letter of Credit No.).
4. The original of this Letter of Credit.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Letter of Credit shall remain in full force
and effect for a period of One Hundred and Twenty (120) days after written
notification by the issuer to the (Village/City/County) is received, it being
understood that the affirmative action of the issuer in forwarding written
notice by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested (or by
receipted hand delivery) is required prior to expiration of this Letter of
Credit. In addition to the foregoing, all drafts may be submitted for payment
for a period of ninety (90) days following the expiration date of this
Irrevocable Letter of Credit as provided herein and such draft shall be fully
honored during the ninety (90) days in accordance with the terms and provisions
herein contained.
This Letter of Credit may be reduced to such amounts specified in writing from
time to time by the (Village/City/County). The Issuer and developer agree that
by reducing the amount of this letter, the (Village/City/County) is not
accepting any Improvements or otherwise waiving any rights it may have.
Provided that the (Village/City/County) complies in a timely manner with the
draft requirements in numbered paragraphs 1, 2, 3, and 4 above if we fail to
honor drafts drawn on this Letter of Credit in addition to all other damages
which are limited by the amount of this Letter of Credit, we shall also pay the
(Village/City/County) all reasonable attorney and expert fees; court costs and
all other expenses incurred by the Village.
This Irrevocable Letter of Credit shall not operate as a limitation upon the
obligation of                 to install all Improvements required by the
(Village/City/County) and otherwise comply with all its other obligations
including the purposes for which this Letter of Credit is issued.
This Letter of Credit is subject to applicable provisions of the Uniform
Commercial Code of the State of Illinois (810 ILCS 5/5-101 et seq.)
ATTEST:   Sincerely,
By:        (Bank Name)
      By:       
      Title:       
   VARIANCE SUBMITTAL
Identifier
Requirement
Comments
7A
Completed Stormwater Permit Application and all required submittals
7B
Completed variance petition including all information identified
7C
Statement as to how the variance sought satisfies the standards. Each condition
needs to be addressed separately
 
   INSPECTION CHECKLIST DURING CONSTRUCTION
      1)    Is the sediment and erosion control system installed as shown in
the construction drawings and documents?
      2)    Has the developer been maintaining the erosion control system after
rain fall events?
      3)    Is there evidence of sediment being carried down stream from the
development site at the project boundaries? If so, the sediment erosion control
system requires correction immediately.
      4)    Are there provisions for handling off site flows into the
construction site without increasing upstream water surface elevations?
      5)    Is there adequate stormwater storage provided in sedimentation
basins? Is there functional detention storage being provided for the
development as it is being constructed?
      6)    Are there adequate provisions in place for the preservation of
existing wetlands during the construction of the development during
construction such as fencing and sediment and erosion control measures to limit
both vehicle access and the impact of sediment from the construction site?
      7)    If culverts or bridges are part of the construction of the
development are they being constructed in a manner to prevent the least
disturbance of the aquatic resource?
      8)    Are buffers clearly delineated for areas requiring protection that
will prevent construction vehicles and other construction activities from
taking place in that area?
      9)    Are any required restrictor structures installed for the conveyance
system?
      10)    Are sediments being removed from basins and disposed of properly
on site in a manner that does not promote their reintroduction into the stream
system?
      11)    Are the limitations provided in the field that limit the area that
should be worked in being followed?
   INSPECTION CHECKLIST AFTER CONSTRUCTION
      1)    Are required stormwater detention/retention facilities in place and
generally as they appear on the as-builts from the permitted plans?
      2)    Are any required restrictors in place and is the outlet control
structure generally "clean"?
      3)    Are any required on site buffers around wetlands in place and free
from prohibited activities?
      4)    Are there any signs of failed construction?
       a.    Settlement of berms.
       b.    Slope instability.
       c.    Accumulated sediment in detention/retention facilities.
       d.    Questionable conditions at facilities related to retaining walls.
       e.    Adequate stabilization of surfaces - i.e., stand of grass or other
stabilizing means.
      5)    Have 'record drawings' been submitted and reviewed?
K. Appendix J: Grundy County Technical Guidance Manual For Best Management
Practices:
   Section A - Retention Best Management Practices
The purpose of the Grundy County Technical Guidance Manual for Best Management
Practices is to supplement the Stormwater Ordinance by providing background,
detail and intent of BMP's in accordance with the Ordinance. This BMP's manual
provides information on the more common forms of BMPs that are currently being
used. This manual does not limit the type of BMPs that may be used for
stormwater projects as the design of these facilities is ever evolving.
This portion of the appendix provides guidance on a number of retention based
stormwater BMPs that can be used to meet the Grundy County retention standard.
The BMPs that are outlined in this section include:
   -   Permeable Interlocking Concrete Pavements
   -   Rain Gardens
   -   Infiltration Trenches
   -   Level Spreader and Filter Strips
   -   Naturalized Stormwater Basins
Guidance for each of these BMPs is provided in subsequent sections and provides
for design assistance to be used by professionals in the implementation of the
stormwater provisions of the Grundy County Stormwater Ordinance.
Terminology: There are many terms that are used to describe the various
stormwater management practices that are in use today. Therefore in order to
aid in the variation of definitions that may be available, the following is a
short glossary of the terms in random order.
Detention: Temporary storage of stormwater runoff with a slow controlled
release from the pond. Basins are used for this capture of the stormwater and
are filled through orifices, weirs, and other structures that control the
discharge rate from the storage facility. The Grundy County release rate is a
detention standard. There are different types of detention ponds as described
below:
a) Dry detention basins: Detention basins that remain dry between events due to
the outlet control structure being located at the bottom of the basin. The
basin is shaped in order to direct all of the stormwater runoff to this drain.
b) Wet detention basins: These basins include a permanent pool of water that is
designed to remain within the basin. In these facilities the outlet control is
located above the bottom of the exaction. These basins are used for aesthetic
purposes and recreational.
c) Wetland detention basins: These detention ponds are constructed such that
wetland plantings are able to thrive and grow. These are created or man made
wetlands as no naturally occurring wetlands would be allowed to be used as
detention areas. The detention ponds are constructed by different methods but
all have fairly shallow bottoms to allow for wetland species to grow.
Retention: In relation to stormwater, retention is the opposite of surface
discharge. Retention systems do not allow the stormwater runoff to leave the
site. The stormwater therefore stays on site and is infiltrated into the
grounds, evaporated, or reused on the site itself. These systems provide
stormwater management in a way that is similar to the natural water cycle as it
releases the water back into the environment or allows for absorption back into
the water table and eventual deep aquifers. Retention water is collected and
used for greywater reuse. The stormwater is reused for irrigation purposes.
Infiltration: This refers to the introduction of runoff water into the
underlying soil. Infiltration facilities typically provide temporary storage
for slow absorption based on the type of stormwater event that is being
experienced.
Bioretention: This is a special best management practice that temporarily
stores runoff water within the soil or vegetative strip that is eventually
dissipated into the atmosphere through evaporation. One such facility would be
a rain garden that would have impervious soils or green roof systems.
Bioinfiltration: Bioinfiltration is a special class of retention that
temporarily store runoff water for infiltration.
Below is a table indicating the type of facilities that may be used for
detention or retention.
                       Retention
BMP Facility Detention Infiltration Bioretention Bioinfiltration
                              Retention
BMP Facility        Detention Infiltration Bioretention Bioinfiltration
Detention Basin     x                                  
Infiltration basin           x                         
Infiltration trench          x                         
Permeable pavement  x         x                         
Green Roof          x                     x             
Rain Garden                  x            x            x
Bioswale                     x            x            x
Filter strip                             x            x
 
Combination Facilities: There are a lot of systems that provide a combination
of detention and infiltration. For example rain gardens are shallow depressions
lined with amended topsoil that also have a bottom layer of gravel or sand that
serves as a storage/drainage layer. Bioswales are similar with the exception
that they are long and linear and act as a conveyance tool along with having
the ability to store stormwater. Green roofs provide for infiltration while
also retaining a considerable amount of runoff.
Section: PERMEABLE INTERLOCKING CONCRETE PAVERS:
A. General Description
Permeable interlocking concrete pavement represents one type of porous
pavement. These pavers are pre-cast units that have openings or large crevices
(expanded joints) formed into them. These expanded joints are spacers that are
part of the mold that is part of the casting of these pavers and functions to
allow stormwater to permeate or flow into these crevices thus being an
integrated part of the stormwater management. Products vary as do the width and
openings of these pavers based on the yield or openings desired during the
design phase of the project and determines the rate at which water can be
infiltrated through the porous paver surface.
Porous pavers are usually part of other BMP methods that are included in the
stormwater management design. For example a permeable paver parking lot may
discharge into a bioswale management area and then eventually into a man made
wetland facility or rain gardens.
B. Applications
Permeable pavements may be used for parking lot installation as well as
walkways and courtyard installations. Other uses include:
   -   Patios
   -   Driveways
   -   Plazas
   -   Terraces
   -   Emergency access areas
   -   Boat ramps and landings for residential uses
C. Benefits
As the pavers provide a decentralized stormwater tool it has the ability to
reduce the amount of volume capacity required in downstream detention
facilities. These systems are aesthetically pleasing and allow landscape
architects to be incorporated into the design of the stormwater management
facilities that will cater to the developers desires while providing the
required volume needed.
D. Limitations
Based on the nature of the porous pavement the following is recommended:
   -    Drain time limited to 24 hours to ensure structural integrity of the
subgrade of the system.
   -    Contributing watershed should not exceed 20% of the area of the porous
pavement installation.
   -    The porous pavement systems should be installed such that it is above
the seasonal high ground water table and at least 10 feet down slope and 100
feet up slope from building foundations unless waterproofing is provided and
direct drainage to footing drains can be prevented.
   -    Investigation into the bedrock condition of the soil should be
considered as this may cause conditions that may lead to sink holes.
   -    Highly expansive clay soils should be avoided for installations unless
an appropriate drainage system is provided to collect and dispose of excess
stormwater in a controlled fashion.
   -    Not recommend for gas stations, recycling facilities, salvage yards, ag
chemical storage, well fields and commercial marinas and similar uses where
contamination to the stormwater that cannot be filtrated through natural
methods may be achieved. Designs that incorporate a lined system may be
considered in these instances.
E. Required Data for Submittal and Review
There are three basic data sets that need to be provided in the review and
eventual approval of these systems. The following lists those sets and provided
a brief explanation of what will be required for submittal and why:
1. Infiltration capacity and suitability of soil subgrades
The volume of the runoff that may infiltrate into these permeable systems is
depended on the infiltration capacity of the subsoils over a specific period of
time. This capacity along with the contributing watershed and subgrade strength
will help to determine the drainage and structural design for the porous
pavement. Soil analysis shall be provided that includes density test reports,
and classification. The reports should also include results of a hydraulic
conductivity test that is performed at the location intended for this system
and the elevation of the proposed bottom of the pavement to establish the site-
specific permeability rate (double ring infiltometer test per ASTM D3385, lab
test per ASTM D2434 through a Shelby tube sample or other method approved by
the review specialist).
2. Seasonal high water table:
Information shall be provided if the water table for the site is high. This
determined elevation for seasonal conditions will be incorporate into the
design such that the level of the bottom of the porous pavement will be at
least three feet above this level or elevation. By doing so the potential for
shallow water contamination from this first level stormwater filtration system
will be avoided.
3. Contributing Drainage Area:
Along with the infiltration capacity, the drainage area and the level of
ability for that area to be permeated with stormwater will determine the type
of porous pavement needed in the stormwater management system.
RAIN GARDENS
A. Description
Rain gardens are shallow excavated depressed areas that may be located in all
land uses (residential, commercial and industrial). The rain gardens function
by allowing sheet drained or direct discharge stormwater into the functional
area thus providing some of the runoff function while being an aesthetic
portion to the property. Vegetation is grown for the conditions in that area
and functions to filtrate and cleanse the water through deep rooted plants and
their microorganisms located in the root zone.
Rain gardens are an intricate form of biofiltration measures designed to filter
and/or infiltrate runoff through a vegetated soil surface. Rain gardens
function alone or part of other BMP's. Bioswales located within parking lot
islands are often referred to as biofiltration swales and these are also
considered linear rain gardens.
B. Applications
Rain gardens provide function in the form of many uses such as the following:
   -    Residential gardens/yards
   -    Commercial development landscape plans
   -    Parking lot landscape islands
   -    Parkways/right of ways areas along streets
   -    Median strips
C. Benefits
Rain gardens aid in areas that are prone to flooding and cleanse water in areas
where eventual outfall of the stormwater may be wetlands, streams, and lakes.
Rain gardens also benefit in the function of the following uses:
   -    Reduces the amount of stormwater volume and rates from point discharge
areas such as roofs, pavements and lawns.
   -    Recharges groundwater and sustains flows to natural bodies of water.
   -    Prevents nutrient stripping due to erosion.
   -    Reduces the amount of water usage for gardens, maintenance of lawns,
and helps in the cost of typical stormwater management infrastructure.
   -    Assists in the required onsite stormwater management requirements.
   -    Provides aesthetic value to property while improving habitat.
D. Limitations
Rain gardens are limited such that they should not be incorporated in areas
that are prone to heavy sediment loading, and potential contaminated runoff to
avoid further groundwater contamination such as heavy industrial users such as
fueling and hazardous material storage facilities.
Drain time for the gardens should be limited to twelve hours to ensure
longevity of the vegetation and prevent potential complaints about standing
stormwater. Using the same consideration, rain gardens should not be placed
above septic fields and should be located such that they are one hundred feet
from well head locations. Location of these gardens should also be considered
in regard to foundations of buildings. The garden should be located such that
it is at least ten feet down slope from building foundations unless adequate
waterproofing is provided and direct drainage to footing drains are provided.
E. Required Design Data
   1) Soil Type and Permeability
The design professional should provide for review of the soil type and
permeability to determine the volume of stormwater runoff that may be
infiltrated from the rain garden into the ground over a given time. The
infiltration capacity and the amount of volume from the watershed will
determine the size of the rain garden being considered. It is recommended that
a hydraulic conductivity test be performed at the location and elevation of the
proposed rain garden bottom to establish the site specific permeability rate.
Such test standards for this testing include the double ring infiltrometer test
per ASTM D3385, lab test per ASTM D2434 through a Shelby tube sample, or a
Falling Head Percolation Test. The data achieved from any of these tests will
provide the design professional the means for determining the sizing and proper
design of the rain garden.
   2) Seasonal High Water Table
In areas where the water table is known to be high, the design professional
shall ensure that the invert of the water garden is at least three feet above
the seasonal high water table to provide adequate runoff treatment prior to
discharge into shallow ground water.
   3) Contributing Drainage Area and Imperviousness
Along with the infiltration capacity, the drainage area and level of
imperviousness that contributes to the rain garden are needed to determine the
size depth, and materials need for the construction of the rain garden.
INFILTRATION TRENCHES
A) Description
Infiltration trenches are excavations that are filled with open aggregate that
functions as a stormwater storage facility for runoff. These trenches may be
incorporated with other BMPS such as rain gardens or vegetated swales. The
swales are then filled with topsoil and native plantings and grasses are added
to provide for clarifying effects of the stormwater and aesthetic purposes. The
size and shape of the trench does not need to be rectangular in fashion but
simply needs to function as an area that provides runoff volume control,
recharges shallow ground water and provides flow control. When needed an under
drain may be provided that will allow for additional stormwater to be
alleviated from the site.
B) Applications
Infiltration trenches improve the retention capacity by increasing the storage
volume available for infiltration, increasing the allowable drain time, and may
facilitate connection to lower lying soil horizon that has a better
infiltration capacity. In this case the trench functions as a linear dry well.
It should be noted that the invert of this trench should be separated such as
to minimize the ground water contamination.
Typical uses:
-    Commercial
-    Residential
-    Mixed-use development
-    Areas within the development such as parking lots that lend to a narrow
passage design
-    Parking lot islands
Note that uses should not exceed a five acre area.
C) Benefits
-    Good pollutant removal ability.
-    Facility has ability to recharge area and improve and sustain base flows
to natural tributaries.
-    Reduces the total amount of runoff volume and subsequent reduction of
potential flooding and associated bank and shoreline erosion in discharge areas
into wetlands, streams and lakes.
-    Has retention capacity abilities through penetration of shallow soil
horizons that have a low permeability.
-    Decentralization of stormwater systems.
D)   Limitations
Infiltration trenches are subject to clogging based on the amount of sediment
loading or potential contamination sources that may impact recharge water. The
basic premise is that these types of facilities should not be considered if the
sediment load in upstream areas cannot be controlled. The following are uses
that should not be considered for this type of infiltration facility:
   -    Manufacturing
   -    Automobile service facilities
   -    Agricultural sites
   -    Plant nurseries
   -    Agricultural sites
To minimize the effects from any of these types of uses, the invert of the
infiltration trench must be separated from the seasonal high ground water
table. For example infiltration trenches should be separated from private wells
by at least 100 feet and be located at least 10 feet down slope and 100 feet
from the upslope of building foundations. In addition the contributing
watershed to the trench should not exceed two acres. Infiltration devices
should not be located to high and steep slopes where seepage could destabilize
the slope nor should the contributing watershed for the trench exceed two
acres.
E) Required Design Data
Soil Type and permeability shall be investigated under the infiltration trench.
The information provided shall provide the amount of volume of runoff that can
be infiltrated into the ground over a given period of time. This capacity along
with the porosity of the aggregate fill, the required drain time, and the
contributing watershed will provide enough data such that the dimensions and
design of the infiltration trench may be determined.
A hydraulic conductivity test is also recommended to be performed at the site
where the infiltration trench invert is to be located to establish the site-
specific permeability rate. Two of these tests shall be performed per
infiltration trench. If the trench is longer than 100 feet in length, one
additional sample per 100 feet shall be completed according to common practice.
The hydraulic conductivity test shall conform to the double ring infiltrometer
test per ASTM D3385, lab test per ASTM D2434 through a Shelby tube sample or a
Falling Head Percolation Test.
The location of the invert shall be at least three feet or higher from the
seasonal high water table to reduce the potential for shallow ground water
contamination.
LEVEL SPREADER AND FILTER STRIPS
A) Description
Level spreaders are filter strips that represent two separate BMP's that have
been combined to provide an effective method to management and treatment of
stormwater runoff. Filter strips along an urban area are not as effective
against the concentrated amount of stormwater runoff that can cause erosion
issues. By implementing a level spreader the watershed is slowed in volume and
velocity such that a filter strip will function accord to design.
The level spreader functions by receiving concentrate points of stormwater
discharge and dissipating this flow into a uniform surface sheet flow. This
concentrated flow may be received through subsurface structures such as
perforated pipes or surface structures such as curb cuts. By reducing the point
discharge into a sheet flow reduces the erosion and scouring that may occur and
prepares the stormwater for the filter strip for the combined BMP arrangement.
The filter strip functions by receiving this stormwater and is sloped to allow
the stormwater to drain slowly into the strip to provide removal of pollutants
and allow for infiltration of the shallow water table for recharge purposes.
Filter strips are planted with native prairie grasses and forbs that improve
the water quality through the long roots that these plants provide.
B) Applications
Filter strips can be applied in many urban uses and are suited well for the
following uses:
   -    Residential development
   -    Commercial development
   -    Campus type development
   -    Industrial development
These strips are well used as part of the entire landscape design and are used
commonly to treat stormwater from parking lots. The slopes on the vegetated
strips should be less than 5% to prevent the potential of soil erosion issues.
With applications concentrated runoff can be discharged into a perforated
distribution pipe within the level spreader trench. The perforated pipe then
distributes the runoff over the entire length of the level spreader.
C) Benefits
In addition to the ability of the level spreaders to prevent erosion control
and scouring and also cleanse the stormwater prior to entering into another
watershed through native plantings they also cool the stormwater. For example
if the stormwater source is from a parking lot the stormwater would be heated
and the level spreader would have the ability due to slowing the volume to cool
that temperature.
Having this uniform flow provides for infiltration and filtration abilities and
also provide for an effective buffer between developments and sensitive areas
such as streams, wetlands and lakes.
Filter strips may be used as a portion of the standard retention requirements
that are required within the ordinance.
Both the filter strips and the level spreader facilities are low cost BMP's
that provide cost savings to the developer as compared to maintenance of other
conventional landscape treatments such as turf grass.
D) Limitations
Impervious areas connected to filter strips are limited in size such that they
can not be more than two or three times the actual filter strip area. By
limiting the size of the impervious area impact the stormwater runoff is more
insured to filter and reduce the volume of the stormwater unless the flow rates
are controlled upstream of the filter. The length of the impervious areas is
limited such that it does not exceed 200 feet. These facilities are also
limited in areas that are prone to heavy foot or vehicular traffic. This type
of loading onto the strip will damage the native vegetation and also cause soil
compaction which slows the amount of absorption and infiltration capacity.
Filter strips are also not suitable for hilly or highly paved areas because of
high runoff velocities. The design engineer may choose in these areas to have
several level spreader areas within the filter strip application to allow for
gradual flow conditions. It should also be noted that areas that are to be
considered for a filter strip application should not be subjected to the
application of fertilizers and pesticide.
Economically, level spreaders and filter strips may not be the best choice if
the development is highly dense and the land values are high.
NATURALIZED STORMWATER BASINS
A) Description
Naturalized detention ponds are those ponds that retain water and will allow
for the designer to add wetland plantings that will clarify the stormwater and
allow for better infiltration and more quality recharge. The emergent plantings
coming out of the bottom of the basin or wet area of the pond shall be planted
on a slope that allows for growth of these plantings. The vegetation being deep
rooted will provide a good method to stabilize the side slopes and also deters
geese population due to the appearance of being a home to their natural
predators, the fox etc.
Two basic naturalized basin designs will be discussed: wet basins that consist
primarily of open water with shallow emergent wetland shelves around the
perimeter of the open water habitat and also a wetland system that provides a
shallow marsh habitat. Naturalized basins can be designed to combine a variety
of marsh, ponds and shallow marsh habitats into one management facility that
provides differing zones or regions.
Stormwater basins that are designed with naturalized plantings and systems are
usually incorporated into other stormwater BMP's such as infiltration trenches
and filter strips as a pretreatment measure to reduce the sediment loads and
water level fluctuations within the basin.
B) Applications
Naturalized stormwater basins are essentially just a variation of the detention
ponds and may be used in the following uses:
   -    Any development where stormwater management is necessary in
residential, commercial or industrial use groups.
   -    Naturalized basins are part of the landscape plan of developments that
add to the aesthetic nature of that development.
C) Benefits
The following are ways that naturalized detention ponds are beneficial to
stormwater management.
   -    Enhancement of vegetation diversity and wildlife habitat in urban
settings.
   -    Increased pollutant removal efficiencies due to the settlement of
particulate matter and biological uptake by wetland plants.
   -    Wet basins are better able to prevent settled pollutants from washing
back out of the basin during subsequent heavy rainfall periods.
   -    Environmental benefits for connecting downstream tributaries, wetlands
and lakes by reduces the runoff rates, improvement of water quality and also
prevention of increased downstream flooding associated with development.
   -    Improved aesthetic features for the development and a valued open space
commodity.
   -    Low maintenance costs.
D) Limitations
   -    Large land area required for the construction of these facilities.
   -    Can be expensive depending on the other BMP's that are incorporated
into the design of the facility.
   -    Pollutant removal efficiencies are limited until vegetation is
established.
   -    Less pollutant removal during non-growing season.
   -    Potential habitation by invasive species. This would require that
maintenance in control burns would need to take place to keep the invasive
species controlled and allow for natives to thrive.
   -    Construction sites, agricultural or uses that would provide
concentrated amounts of silt and sediment shall be avoided when these systems
are installed as this may cause plant stabilization issues. However, once
construction ceases the banks may be stabilized with native species.
   -    Source pollution areas such as industrial, refueling and toxic areas
shall not incorporate these naturalized detention facilities due to the
potential of contamination of downstream watersheds and also recharge into
ground water.
(Ord. 2016-003, 3-8-2016)
CHAPTER 5
SIGNS
SECTION:
8-5-0: Intent
8-5-1: Applicability
8-5-2: Purpose
8-5-3: Exempt And Prohibited Signs
8-5-3-1: Signs Allowed Without A Permit
8-5-3-2: Prohibited Signs
8-5-3-3: Nonconforming Signs
8-5-4: Permitted Signs
8-5-4-1: Signs Permitted In The Agricultural (A) District
8-5-4-2: Signs Permitted In Residential Districts
8-5-4-3: Signs Permitted In Commercial Districts
8-5-4-4: Signs Permitted In The Industrial (I) District
8-5-5: General Design And Placement Of Signs
8-5-6: Structural And Safety Requirements For Signs
8-5-7: Sign Maintenance, Alterations, And Modifications
8-5-0: INTENT:
This chapter provides uniform sign standards that promote the safety of persons
and property, provide for an efficient transfer of information in sign
messages, and protect the public welfare by enhancing the appearance and
economic value of the landscape. Specifically, these standards are intended:
   A.   To regulate, classify, restrict, and control the location, size, type,
and placement of all signs and sign structures;
   B.   To eliminate and prevent excessive and confusing sign displays that do
not relate to the premises on which they are located;
   C.   To preserve the natural beauty and environment of the county;
   D.   To safeguard, stabilize, and enhance property values;
   E.   To protect public and private investment in buildings and open spaces;
   F.   To ensure a consistent and appropriate aesthetic environment; and
   G.   To protect the public health, safety, and general welfare. (Ord. 10-
001, 1-12-2010)
8-5-1: APPLICABILITY:
Any sign within the county that is located outside the corporate limits of any
city, village, or incorporated town shall be subject to these regulations. All
construction, relocation, enlargement, alteration, and modification of signs
within the county shall conform to the requirements of this chapter, all state
and federal regulations concerning signs and advertising, the international
building code, and the national electric code. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-5-2: PURPOSE:
The sign ordinance is intended to establish a comprehensive and balanced system
of sign control that accommodates the need for a well maintained, safe, and
attractive community and the need for effective communications including
business identification. It is the intent of this chapter, to promote the
health, safety, general welfare, aesthetics, and image of the community by
regulating signs that are intended to communicate to the public and to use
signs which meet the county's goals by authorizing:
   A.   Permanent signs which establish a high standard of aesthetics;
   B.   Signs that are compatible with their surroundings;
   C.   Signs that are designed, constructed, installed and maintained in a
manner that does not adversely impact public safety or unduly distract
motorists;
   D.   Signs that are large enough to convey the intended message and to help
citizens find their way to intended destinations;
   E.   Signs that are proportioned to the scale of, and are architecturally
compatible with, principal structures;
   F.   Permanent signs which give preference to the on premises owner or
occupant; and
   G.   Temporary commercial signs and advertising displays which provide an
opportunity for grand openings and occasional sales events while restricting
signs that create continuous visual clutter and hazards at public right of way
intersections. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-5-3: EXEMPT AND PROHIBITED SIGNS:
8-5-3-1: SIGNS ALLOWED WITHOUT A PERMIT:
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to the following types of signs,
provided, however, they shall remain subject to safe construction and
electrical standards as specified by the applicable code(s):
   A.   Official Signs: Government signs, not exceeding thirty two (32) square
feet of sign area, that are erected or maintained pursuant to and in discharge
of any governmental function, whether located on owned or leased property.
   B.   Private Directional Signs: Private traffic control signs that are
freestanding, do not exceed six (6) square feet in sign area, and contain no
advertising. These signs are intended solely for the purpose of directing the
movement of traffic, warning of obstacles or overhead clearances, and/or
providing directions to parking areas, entrances, exits, drive-through windows,
or similar directions.
   C.   Agricultural Crop Signs: Temporary signs customarily displayed by
agricultural seed and fertilizer companies on farms to advertise their
products.
   D.   Utility Markers: Utility and hazard signs marking utility or
underground communication or transmission lines and hazards.
   E.   Political Signs: All signs containing a political message, such as a
campaign or political sign.
   F.   Identification Plaques: Historical and commemorative plaques for
recognized historic properties, societies, and organizations, if the signs are
less than fifteen (15) square feet in sign area.
   G.   Vehicle Signs: Signs displayed or used on motor vehicles and trailers,
unless the vehicle or trailer is located on a property to serve the similar
purpose of a permanent sign or portable sign.
   H.   Athletic Field Signs: Signs located on the field side of scoreboards
and fences of athletic fields.
   I.   Flags: Flags complying with the provisions below are exempt. Flagpoles,
however, are not exempt; they are subject to certain setback provisions
contained in this title pertaining to the obstruction of traffic and clear
vision. Exempt flags include the following:
      1.   The flag of the United States of America, when displayed in
compliance with the U.S. flag code (4 USC 1).
      2.   Flags of foreign, state, or local governments or public agencies
mounted on poles, located together on the same premises subject to the
following limitations:
         a.   There are no more than four (4) flags displayed at any time.
         b.   Flags shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet of area or a height
of forty feet (40').
      3.   No more than two (2) commercial and corporate logo, college, or
athletic team flags flown on any premises.
   J.   Small Bulletin Boards: Accessory signs or bulletin boards for places of
public assembly or charitable organizations, which do not exceed thirty two
(32) square feet.
   K.   Temporary Construction Signs: One construction sign per street frontage
of a building that is under construction, structural alteration, or repair
announcing the enterprise or purpose for which the building is intended.
      1.   The sign may include names of business entities participating in the
construction, structural alteration, or repair.
      2.   The area for each sign shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in
the agricultural residential (AR), planned residential (PR), and residential
(R) districts.
      3.   The area for each sign shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet
for all other districts.
      4.   Advertising signs for subdivisions and development projects are not
included in this exemption.
   L.   Business Nameplates: One professional nameplate not to exceed four (4)
square feet in sign area.
   M.   Brand And Instructional Signs: Outdoor machine, device, or equipment
signs that display the trademark, trade name, manufacturer, cost, operating or
service instructions, or similar information. This exemption includes signs on
coin operated vending machines, fuel dispensing pumps, telephone facilities,
automatic teller machines, automotive vacuum cleaners, amusement rides, and
similar machines, devices, or equipment.
   N.   Auxiliary Signs: Auxiliary sign attached to a building or canopy or
placed in a window indicating general information such as pricing, credit
cards, official notices or services required by law, trade associations, or
giving directions to offices, restrooms, exits, and similar facilities.
   O.   Holiday Displays: Holiday displays, signs, and lights including
Christmas lights that contain only holiday messages and no commercial
advertising. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-5-3-2: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
All signs listed below shall be prohibited under this chapter:
   A.   Encroaching Signs: Signs in the right of way and signs or supports that
encroach into the public right of way, other than those required by
governmental authority. This prohibition shall not apply to commercial vehicles
or trailers lawfully operated or parked in such areas.
   B.   Rotating Or Flashing Signs: Motion signs that flash, revolve, rotate,
whirl, spin, or otherwise make use of motion to attract attention. This
prohibition excludes flags, pennants, and barbers' poles that have a turning,
striped cylinder, which does not exceed forty two inches (42") in height and
which otherwise meets the requirements of this UDO.
   C.   Dynamic Display: Signs that appear to have movement or that appear to
change, caused by any method other than physically removing and replacing the
sign or its components, whether the apparent movement or change is in the
display, the sign structure itself, or any other component of the sign. This
includes a display that incorporates a technology or method allowing the sign
face to change the image without having to physically or mechanically replace
the sign face or its components. This also includes any rotating, revolving,
moving, flashing, blinking, or animated display and any display that
incorporates rotating panels, LED lights manipulated through digital input,
"digital ink", or any other method or technology that allows the sign face to
present a series of images or displays.
   D.   Misleading Or Obstructing Signs: Signs that, by reason of their size,
location, movement, content, coloring, or manner of illumination, may be
confused with or construed as a traffic control sign, signal or device, or the
light of emergency or road equipment vehicles or which hide from view any
traffic or street sign, signal, or device. This category also includes
obstructing signs that violate the sight visibility regulations of this title.
   E.   Sound Bearing Signs: Any sign that emits any form of sound or
detectable noise.
   F.   Wind Signs: Wind signs are intended to produce attention getting motion
and are, therefore, prohibited.
   G.   Obsolete Or Unsafe Signs: Signs that are located on property that
becomes vacant and is unoccupied for a continuous period of twelve (12) months
or more or any sign that pertains to a dated event or purpose that no longer
applies. The prohibition also includes deteriorated, dilapidated, or unsafe
signs.
   H.   Stationary Vehicle Signs: Signs on motor vehicles or trailers when such
motor vehicles or trailers are parked in a manner or position visible to
traffic passing along an arterial or collector street. Said vehicles shall not
be engaged in, or not imminently awaiting, the loading or unloading of cargo
into or from such motor vehicle or trailer, to the end that such motor vehicle
or trailer sign is intentionally being used as an advertising device, not a
mode of transportation.
   I.   Nonauthorized Signs: Illegal signs that have been or are erected,
altered, repaired, or relocated without having received an applicable permit,
certificate, or approval, and without being erected, altered, repaired, or
relocated in conformance with the applicable building and electrical codes of
the county. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-5-3-3: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Nonconforming Signs: Existing signs which do not conform to the
specific provisions of this chapter shall be eligible for the designation
"legal nonconforming" provided that:
      1.   The zoning officer determines that such signs are properly
maintained and do not in any way endanger the public.
      2.   The sign was covered by a valid permit or variance or complied with
all applicable laws on the date of adoption hereof.
   B.   Loss Of Nonconforming Status: A legal nonconforming sign will lose this
designation if:
      1.   The sign is relocated or replaced.
      2.   The structure or size of the sign is altered in any way except
towards compliance with this chapter. This does not refer to change of copy or
normal maintenance. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-5-4: PERMITTED SIGNS:
8-5-4-1: SIGNS PERMITTED IN THE AGRICULTURAL (A) DISTRICT:
   A.   On Premises Signs:
      1.   Agricultural Uses: There shall be not more than one sign, not
exceeding ten (10) square feet in area, for each principal farm dwelling,
except on a corner lot where two (2) such signs for each dwelling unit shall be
permitted. The sign shall indicate the name of the occupant and any specialized
agricultural activities being conducted on the premises.
      2.   Nonagricultural Uses: A single on premises business identification
sign not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in area is permitted. On a corner
lot, two (2) such signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted.
      3.   Projection And Height Restrictions: On premises advertising signs
shall be subject to the following restrictions:
         a.   Projection: No sign shall project beyond the front lot line.
         b.   Height: No sign shall project higher than ten feet (10') above
grade at the near edge of the roadway pavement.
   B.   Real Estate Signs: "For sale" and "for rent" signs, subject to the
following:
      1.   Maximum Area: No sign shall exceed twelve (12) square feet in area.
      2.   Maximum Number Of Signs: There shall be not more than one sign
facing each street on which the property fronts.
      3.   Projection: No sign shall project beyond the front lot line.
      4.   Height: No sign shall project higher than ten feet (10') above grade
at the near edge of the roadway pavement.
   C.   Outdoor Advertising Signs: Off premises outdoor advertising signs
("billboards") shall only be permitted on parcels of land abutting I-55 and I-
80, provided such signs have no moving parts, shall conform with other county
codes or ordinances and Illinois statutes, and shall conform with the following
regulations:
      1.   Spacing: Along interstate highways, no advertising sign shall be
located nearer than two thousand feet (2,000') from another outdoor advertising
sign.
      2.   Maximum Area Of Displays:
         a.   Each outdoor advertising sign structure shall contain not more
than two (2) display surfaces. Only one item shall be displayed on each
surface.
         b.   The structure shall have a length and height of not more than
such dimension needed to secure either two (2) standardized fifteen foot by
twenty five foot (15' x 25') poster panel displays or a single fifteen foot by
fifty five foot (15' x 55') bulletin display on each surface. The overall
display surface (both sides) shall not exceed one thousand six hundred fifty
(1,650) square feet.
      3.   Location:
         a.   Off premises outdoor advertising signs ("billboards") shall only
be permitted on tracts of land abutting I-55 and I-80. No off premises outdoor
advertising sign shall be located along other roads or on other parcels in the
county.
         b.   No outdoor advertising sign shall be located nearer than fifty
feet (50') from a side lot line, nor nearer than one hundred fifty feet (150')
from a residential district boundary line.
      4.   Illumination: Illumination shall be subject to the safety and
nuisance restrictions contained in section
8-8-3-3, "Public Safety And Public Nuisance", of this title. (Ord. 10-001, 1-
12-2010)
8-5-4-2: SIGNS PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
The following sign provisions apply to the agriculture residential (AR),
planned residential (PR), and residential (R) districts:
   A.   Real Estate Signs: "For sale" and "for rent" signs pertaining to the
sale or rental of property on which they are located shall be permitted in
accordance with the following regulations:
      1.   There shall be not more than one sign on a lot, except on a corner
lot or through lot where one such sign facing each street shall be permitted.
      2.   A sign shall not have more than twelve (12) square feet of area, and
it shall be located not less than eight feet (8') from the nearest lot line.
      3.   Such a sign, when affixed to a building wall, shall not project
higher than ten feet (10') above grade, and a ground sign shall not project
higher than five feet (5') above the ground grade elevation below it.
      4.   Such a sign shall not be illuminated.
   B.   Identification Signs For Nonresidential Uses: On premises
identification signs for nonresidential uses shall be permitted in accordance
with the following regulations:
      1.   Nonresidential uses are allowed one identification sign affixed flat
against a building wall and one ground sign. The signs may be illuminated by
direct or indirect illumination arranged in a manner consistent with the
provisions of section
8-5-6, "Structural And Safety Requirements For Signs", of this chapter.
         a.   Exception: On a corner or through lot, one additional ground sign
shall be permitted. Thus, the nonresidential use can incorporate a sign that
faces each street.
      2.   Each sign shall contain not more than sixteen (16) square feet of
area and:
         a.   When affixed to a building wall, it shall not project higher than
ten feet (10') above floor grade at entrance doorways;
         b.   A ground sign shall not be located nearer than eight feet (8')
from the nearest interior lot line and not less than one-half (1/2) the depth
of the required yard from the nearest lot line adjoining a street; and
         c.   It shall not project higher than ten feet (10') aboveground grade
elevation.
   C.   Temporary Signs For Residential Development Projects: Temporary signs
for a residential subdivision or development project are permitted in
accordance with the provisions of section
8-5-5, "General Design And Placement Of Signs", of this chapter. (Ord. 10-001,
1-12-2010)
8-5-4-3: SIGNS PERMITTED IN COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
Signs are permitted in the commercial general (CG), and commercial interchange
(CI) districts subject to applicable regulations set forth in other ordinances
of the county and the following:
   A.   On Premises Permanent Signs: Signs with no moving parts are permitted,
subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Permitted Types And Positioning: Ground signs, wall signs, awnings,
canopy signs, and marquees are permitted.
         a.   Maximum Height: The height of ground signs shall not exceed
twenty feet (20'), except on parcels or tracts located adjacent to an
interstate highway, where ground signs oriented to interstate traffic may
project up to forty feet (40').
         b.   Maximum Size: The total gross surface area in square feet of all
signs on a lot shall not exceed:
            (1)   A maximum area of two hundred (200) square feet, or
            (2)   Four (4) times the number of linear feet in the length of the
building wall facing the front lot line. On a corner or through lot, each lot
line adjoining a street shall be considered a separate front lot line.
      2.   Mixed Use Developments And Shopping Centers: Individual occupancies
in a multi-tenant structure, planned development, or shopping center shall use
wall signs only. However, one ground sign facing each street may be provided to
identify the name and address of the shopping center; this sign (or signs) may
include a bulletin area for advertising special events, promotional sales
taking place on the premises, or public announcements.
         a.   Such ground sign shall be not less than ten feet (10') from any
lot line, shall have a gross surface area of not more than one hundred sixty
(160) square feet, which may be in addition to the maximum gross surface area
as permitted in subsection A1b of this section, and shall not project higher
than thirty feet (30') above grade.
         b.   When located within fifty feet (50') of a street intersection,
the ground sign shall have its lowest level not less than eight feet (8') above
the grade below it, and when located within three feet (3') of a driveway or
parking area, it shall have the lowest level not less than twelve feet (12')
above the grade below it.
      3.   Illumination: Signs may be illuminated. Such lighting shall comply
with the requirements of section
8-5-6, "Structural And Safety Requirements For Signs", of this chapter.
      4.   Master Sign Plan Requirements: In new shopping centers and other
multi-tenant commercial developments, all individual signs shall be of a
similar type and shall have a consistent size, lettering style, color scheme,
and material construction. Trademarked signs and corporate logos are exempt
from this requirement.
         a.   A master sign plan shall be included in the required development
review and approval submittals.
         b.   After approval of a master sign plan, or an amended master sign
plan, no sign shall be erected, placed, painted, or maintained, except in
accordance with such plan.
   B.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs shall comply with the requirements of
section
8-5-5, "General Design And Placement Of Signs", of this chapter.
   C.   Outdoor Advertising Signs: Off premises outdoor advertising signs
("billboards") shall only be permitted on parcels of land abutting I-55 and I-
80, provided such signs have no moving parts, shall conform with other county
codes or ordinances and Illinois statutes, and shall conform with the following
regulations:
      1.   Spacing: Along I-55 and I-80, no advertising sign shall be located
nearer than two thousand feet (2,000') from another outdoor advertising sign.
      2.   Maximum Area Of Displays:
         a.   Each outdoor advertising sign structure shall contain not more
than two (2) display surfaces. Each surface shall advertise only one item.
         b.   The structure shall have a length and height of not more than
such dimension needed to secure either two (2) standardized fifteen foot by
twenty five foot (15' x 25') poster panel displays or a single fifteen foot by
fifty five foot (15' x 55') bulletin display on each surface. The overall
display surface (both sides) shall not exceed one thousand six hundred fifty
(1,650) square feet.
      3.   Location:
         a.   Off premises outdoor advertising signs ("billboards") shall only
be permitted on tracts of land abutting I-55 and I-80. No off premises outdoor
advertising sign shall be located along other roads or on other parcels in the
county.
         b.   No outdoor advertising sign shall be located nearer than fifty
feet (50') from a side lot line, nor nearer than one hundred fifty feet (150')
from a residential district boundary line.
      4.   Illumination: Illumination shall be subject to the safety and
nuisance restrictions contained in section
8-8-3-3, "Public Safety And Public Nuisance", of this title.
   D.   Additional Restrictions For The Commercial Interchange (CI) District:
      1.   No sign may be erected that exceeds in area twelve (12) square feet
or two (2) square feet per linear foot of building facade.
      2.   No sign may be erected or maintained within one thousand feet
(1,000') of approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic if it obscures or
interferes with a driver's view of the traffic.
      3.   No two (2) sign structures on the same side of the highway shall be
erected less than three hundred feet (300') apart, unless as otherwise provided
in the Illinois highway advertising control act of 1971 1 . (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 440/1 et seq.
8-5-4-4: SIGNS PERMITTED IN THE INDUSTRIAL (I) DISTRICT:
Awnings, marquees, and illuminated business signs with no moving parts are
permitted in the industrial (I) district subject to applicable regulations set
forth in other ordinances of the county and the following:
   A.   Maximum Sign Area: The gross area in square feet of all signs on a lot
shall not exceed four (4) times the linear feet of street frontage of such lot.
   B.   Wall Signs: Wall signs are permitted. Projections shall not extend
outward more than twelve inches (12") or higher than five feet (5') above the
building.
   C.   Ground Signs: A single ground sign is permitted subject to the
following restrictions:
      1.   It shall be at least twenty feet (20') from any lot line.
      2.   The maximum height shall be thirty feet (30') above curb level.
      3.   If located within three feet (3') of a sidewalk or driveway on the
lot, it shall have the lowest elevation of the sign face at least twelve feet
(12') above the grade of the sidewalk or driveway directly opposite the sign.
   D.   Awnings: Signs on awnings shall be exempt from the limitations imposed
by this chapter on the projection of signs from the face of the wall of any
building or structure, provided that any sign located on the awning shall be
affixed flat to the surface of the awning and shall not be illuminated.
Further, no such sign shall extend vertically or horizontally beyond the limits
of said awning.
   E.   Illumination Permitted: Signs may be illuminated. Such lighting shall
comply with the requirements of section
8-5-6, "Structural And Safety Requirements For Signs", of this chapter.
   F.   Industrial Park Identification Sign: For industrial parks, one
additional sign on each street frontage in addition to those regulated above
shall be permitted, subject to the following:
      1.   Content: Such sign shall advertise only the name and location of
such industrial park and the name and type of business of each occupant of the
park.
      2.   Area: The gross area in square feet of the additional sign on a lot
shall not exceed two hundred (200) square feet or two (2) times the linear feet
of street frontage of such lot, whichever is less.
      3.   Setback: Such a sign shall be set back a minimum of ten feet (10')
from the front lot line of such industrial park.
      4.   Height: Such sign shall conform with the regulations in subsection C
of this section. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-5-5: GENERAL DESIGN AND PLACEMENT OF SIGNS:
For purposes of applying these regulations, all signs are defined and
classified according to their physical characteristics. Unless otherwise
specified in this chapter, all signs shall comply with the maximum area,
height, setback, and other allowances provided in this section.
   A.   Permanent Signs:
      1.   Wall Signs: The following restrictions apply to signs that are
attached to the principal structure:
         a.   Signs shall be mounted flush to the face of the building and not
cantilevered away from the structure.
         b.   No sign shall obstruct any window, door, stairway or other
opening intended for entrance or exit, ventilation, or light.
         c.   If indirect illumination is provided by separate lighting
fixtures, these fixtures shall be mounted to the wall and extend no more than
eighteen inches (18") out from the wall.
      2.   Projecting Wall Mounted Signs: Projecting signs include awnings,
canopies, marquees, and any other sign that extends out from the wall more than
three inches (3"). The following limitations shall apply:
         a.   Projecting signs, except for canopies and awnings, shall not
extend more than twelve inches (12") perpendicular from any exterior building
face, mansard, awning, or canopy. They shall not project higher than five feet
(5') above the building height.
         b.   Canopies and awnings shall not extend more than five feet (5')
from the building facade.
      3.   Ground Signs: The following provisions shall apply to freestanding
ground, pole, pylon, or monument signs mounted on the ground:
         a.   Pole or pylon signs shall have a minimum height of four feet (4')
and a maximum height of thirty feet (30').
         b.   Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, the face or any
portion of the ground sign shall be set back from any property line at least
ten feet (10').
         c.   Monument signs shall have a maximum height of eight feet (8').
         d.   Monument signs shall have a base of masonry or other materials
similar to the building(s) constructed on the property and framed on all four
(4) sides.
         e.   If a ground sign is taller than six feet (6'), only direct
lighting (bulbs inside the sign) shall be used for illumination; use of
spotlights is prohibited.
FIGURE 8-5-5A
MONUMENT SIGN
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1646.gif]
FIGURE 8-5-5B
PYLON SIGN
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1648.gif]
      4.   Canopy Signs: Canopy signs shall be permitted subject to the
following requirements:
         a.   The maximum sign area per canopy face is twelve (12) square feet.
         b.   The vertical edge of the canopy sign shall be a maximum of twenty
four inches (24") in height, except for motor fuel station canopies, where the
maximum vertical edge of the canopy may be forty two inches (42").
         c.   In no case shall the sign extend beyond the vertical edge of the
canopy to which it is attached.
         d.   The sign area used for the computation of sign size shall be
deducted from the allowable square footage for wall signs.
FIGURE 8-5-5C
CANOPY SIGN
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1650.gif]
   B.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs, where permitted, may be placed on the
premises of an occupancy for up to sixty (60) calendar days per year, subject
to the following provisions:
      1.   Banner Signs:
         a.   Banners shall be limited to one banner sign per occupancy and
used for a special event such as a grand opening.
         b.   No individual banner shall exceed thirty two (32) square feet in
area.
         c.   Banners shall be mounted flat against an outside wall of the
principal structure.
         d.   Freestanding or fence mounted banners are prohibited.
         e.   They shall remain in good condition, without torn or tattered
portions.
      2.   Portable Signs:
         a.   Any face of a portable sign shall not exceed ten (10) square feet
in area.
         b.   Portable signs shall not be illuminated.
         c.   They shall not be placed closer than five feet (5') from the
right of way.
      3.   Inflatable And Novelty Signs: The following provisions apply to
inflatable signs, balloons, tubes, inflated caricatures, blower driven novelty
signs, and similar temporary devices:
         a.   They shall not be mounted on the roof of a structure.
         b.   They shall project no higher than eight feet (8') above the
ground.
         c.   There shall be no attached flags, pennants, or moving or rotating
parts.
         d.   They shall not be illuminated.
      4.   Subdivision Or Residential Development Project Signs:
         a.   Signs shall be located on the premises as identified by a
preliminary plat of the subdivision, initial development plan submittal, or
master sign plan for a commercial development. They shall be removed within
three (3) months after completion of construction of the development, or one
year after the first dwelling unit is occupied, whichever is sooner.
         b.   Signs shall only be permitted at the intersection of two (2)
collector or arterial streets at the perimeter of the project site. At each
intersection, two (2) signs are permitted.
         c.   The sign shall not project higher than thirty feet (30') above
grade.
         d.   It shall be set back a minimum of fifteen feet (15') from a
property line, except it shall not be nearer than fifty feet (50') from the lot
corner formed by the intersection of any two (2) street right of way lines.
         e.   These signs may be illuminated. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-5-6: STRUCTURAL AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR SIGNS:
   A.   Maintenance: All signs shall be maintained in clean and good structural
condition.
   B.   Compliance With Other Codes: All signs shall comply with the applicable
provisions and requirements of the county building codes and of the county
electrical codes if a sign is illuminated.
   C.   Illumination: Illuminated signs shall be located and constructed so as
to protect the general welfare of the public and the safety of the traveling
public. In particular, illuminated signs shall comply with the following
provisions:
      1.   Lights shall be shaded, shielded, or directed so that the light
intensity or brightness is neither a nuisance to the surrounding area nor a
hazard to the operators of motor vehicles on public thoroughfares.
      2.   Lighting shall not include or consist of exposed reflective or clear
bulbs, strobe lights, or incandescent lamps over fifteen (15) watts that expose
the face of the bulb, light, or lamp to any public thoroughfare or adjacent
property.
      3.   Beacons, flashing lights, or revolving lights are prohibited.
   D.   Obstruction To Pedestrians And Vehicle Traffic: Flagpoles, permanent
signs, and temporary signs shall be located so as not to impede pedestrian
traffic or motor vehicle visibility at street intersections.
   E.   Headroom Of Projecting Signs: All projecting signs, awnings, canopies,
and marquees shall have a headroom of not less than eight feet (8') above any
paved or unpaved surface.
   F.   Sign Clearance And Protection: The bottom coping of the face of a pole
or open pylon sign must be at least ten feet (10') above ground level. Pole
joints shall be at least eight feet (8') above ground level or shall be free of
sharp edges and exposed bolts. The first three feet (3') aboveground may be
enclosed provided there is an unobstructed clearance of at least seven feet
(7') to deter climbing, vandalism, and view obstruction. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-5-7: SIGN MAINTENANCE, ALTERATIONS, AND MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Maintenance: Nonconforming signs shall be allowed to be maintained and
repaired to ensure that they are in a safe condition and in compliance with all
applicable code requirements. Normal maintenance and/or repair shall not alter
the nonconforming status of a sign.
   B.   Alterations And Modifications: All signs unless otherwise exempted by
this chapter, legally existing prior to the enactment hereof but which shall
violate the provisions of this chapter, may continue to be maintained and used
subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Sign Panel Repair And Replacement: Nonconforming signs shall be
allowed to have their copy changed by repainting or replacement of sign panels
to reflect changing business, occupation or other advertising material.
However, replacement of copy shall utilize the existing sign structure, which
shall not be enlarged or relocated.
      2.   Enlargement: Nonconforming signs shall not be enlarged, expanded, or
extended to occupy a greater amount of square footage or height than as
occupied on the date of adoption or amendment hereof. Sign expansion includes
alterations to the structural materials, in addition to any changes to the
sign's width, length, and height.
      3.   Relocation: Nonconforming signs shall not be moved in whole or in
part to any other portion of the lot, parcel, or building not so occupied on
the date of adoption hereof, except if such sign shall be relocated in
conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
      4.   Damage Or Destruction: If the sign is destroyed or suffers more than
fifty percent (50%) appraised damage or deterioration, it must be brought into
conformance with this chapter or removed. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
CHAPTER 6
SUBDIVISIONS AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
8-6-1: General Provisions
8-6-2: Application Submittal Requirements
8-6-2-1: General Requirements
8-6-2-2: Concept Plan Submittal
8-6-2-3: Preliminary Plat Or Development Plan Submittal
8-6-2-4: Final Plat Or Development Plan Submittal
8-6-3: Subdivision And Development Design
8-6-3-1: General Site Design Requirements
8-6-3-2: Open Space And Recreation
8-6-3-3: Utility Lines And Mains
8-6-3-4: Streets, Roadways, And Paths
8-6-3-5: Off Street Parking
8-6-3-6: Sewage Collection And Disposal
8-6-3-7: Water Systems
8-6-3-8: Public Utilities
8-6-3-9: Easements
8-6-4: Guarantee Of Improvements
8-6-5: Project Completion And Turnover
8-6-6: Cost Sharing Of Off Tract Improvements
8-6-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Jurisdiction: This chapter shall apply to the following:
      1.   Subdivisions: Any subdivision of land within the county that is
located outside the corporate limits of any city, village, or incorporated town
shall be subject to these regulations. Subdivisions located within one and one-
half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits of any village, city, or incorporated
town that has adopted and recorded a comprehensive plan in accordance with
applicable state statutes shall be subject to the more restrictive subdivision
requirements of either the county or the incorporated place.
      2.   Land Development: Any land development project within the
unincorporated area of the county, not involving the division of land, that is
located outside the corporate limits of any city, village, or incorporated town
shall require a site development permit subject to these regulations.
   B.   Compliance: To be approved, all proposed subdivisions and land
development projects, in addition to complying with all chapters of this UDO,
must comply with the county school site donation ordinance, all applicable
codes governing private sewage disposal and potable water supply systems, and
all other land use control ordinances.
   C.   Certificate Of Occupancy: No certificate of occupancy or other
occupancy permit shall be granted by any governing official for the use of any
building or structure within a subdivision, lot division, or land development
project approved under this chapter until required land improvements, as
determined by the director, have been installed and approved for use. These
improvements include, but are not limited to, streets, water supply, and
sanitary sewage disposal systems.
   D.   Procedures: The applicant and county are bound by the application and
approval procedures specified in chapter 14, "Permits And Procedures", of this
title for the following:
      1.   Minor and major subdivisions: Section
8-14-10, "Subdivision Plat Procedures", of this title.
      2.   Site development permit: Section
8-14-4, "Site Development Permit", of this title.
   E.   Procedural Deadlines: By mutual agreement of the applicant and the
county board or designee of the county board, procedural deadlines, as defined
in chapter 14, "Permits And Procedures", of this title may be extended.
   F.   Pending Actions: This UDO shall not be construed as abating or amending
any action now pending under prior subdivision regulations in existence at the
adoption of this UDO.
   G.   Vacation Of Plats: A subdivision plat or a part of any plat falling
within the jurisdiction of the county may be vacated provided that such
petition for vacation is reviewed and approved or rejected in like manner to
plats of subdivision as provided in this title and in accord with 765 Illinois
Compiled Statutes.
   H.   Fees: Reasonable fees sufficient to recover costs incurred shall be
charged. These fees are identified in fee schedule maintained by the Land Use
Department. This chapter shall not be construed as having any effect on any
actions pending under prior existing subdivision regulations except as
expressly provided for in this chapter and other chapters of this title. (Ord.
10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-6-2: APPLICATION SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
The documents to be submitted are intended to provide the County with
sufficient information and data to assure compliance with all applicable codes
and specifications and to ensure that the proposed subdivisions and other land
development projects meet the design and improvement standards contained in
this title. The content and detail of the documents to be submitted are based
on the type of development and the particular stage of development application.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-6-2-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
The documents and information to be submitted under the provisions of this
chapter are indicated in the following subsections:
   A.   Submittal Formats: When possible, information and data required should
be provided on the subject plat or development plan map. Supplementary
information and data in the form of maps, drawings, reports, listings, letters,
etc., should be identified and organized to enable expeditious review of the
submittal. A submittal booklet containing all required items and information is
recommended.
   B.   Identification And Certification: Plats and development plans shall
typically contain or indicate a project identification (name), identification
of the preparer and the applicant, preparation and revision dates, and
appropriate certification and signature block.
   C.   Scale Of Maps: Drawing scales of maps, plats, and plans shall be as
appropriate to clearly indicate the information and detail required. The
minimum allowable plat scale shall be one inch equals one hundred feet (1" =
100').
   D.   Size Of Maps: Plat and plan sheets shall be one of four (4) standard
sheet sizes (30" x 36", 24" x 36", 17" x 22", or 11" x 17") or as requested by
the Director.
   E.   Digital Submittal: All submittals of computer generated graphical or
text material shall be accompanied by a corresponding copy of the computerized
file(s) containing this information. It shall be provided in a format and
medium approved by the department.
   F.   Elevation Datum: Elevations and topography shall be measured from a
vertical datum reference bench mark that is part of a surveyed and established
areawide datum system referenced to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (MSL
1929). The reference bench mark used to establish the project bench mark shall
be indicated on the project topographic plan.
   G.   Ties To PLSS Monuments: Subdivisions within one mile of two (2) U.S.
Public Land Survey System (PLSS) monuments, for which monument records are on
file in the Recorder's Office, shall be tied to said monuments by survey
traverse, and the final plat shall show the bearing(s) and distance(s) thereto.
      1.   Resubdivision of subdivisions that have been previously tied to two
(2) such monuments need only show on the final plat the previously plotted
distances and bearings to said monuments established by the original
subdivision plat.
      2.   Where Illinois State plane coordinates have been established for
such PLSS monument, said coordinates shall be calculated for the property
boundary corners of the subdivision and shall be indicated on the subject plat.
   H.   Waivers Or Deferments: In specific cases and for documented reasons,
the County may waive or defer the submission of a particular document or
individual items of a document. The reasons for the waiver or deferment shall
be indicated in writing by the Plat Officer or in the minutes of the Zoning
Board of Appeals. (Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
8-6-2-2: CONCEPT PLAN SUBMITTAL:
The following submittals are required for the review and approval of the
concept plan:
   A.   Applicant Identification: Submittals shall include the name, address
and telephone number of the submittal applicant, the property owner and the
planner, engineer, architect, surveyor and/or other applicant consultants
involved in the intended project.
   B.   Location Map: A location map shall be provided that indicates:
      1.   The location of tract with reference to surrounding properties and
roadways within one and one-half (11/2) miles.
      2.   Municipal boundaries within one and one-half (11/2) miles.
   C.   Zoning And Land Use Map: The map shall show existing zoning
classifications and land uses of the subject tract and all adjacent properties,
easements, and lands reserved for public use within six hundred feet (600') of
the boundaries of the proposed development.
   D.   Property Survey And Legal Description: The property survey shall be in
drawn form. It shall include all boundaries of the tract, existing easements,
roadways and other dedications, and the size of the tract to be developed or
subdivided. A written legal description of the tract to be subdivided or
developed shall also be provided.
   E.   Environmental Information: Environmental information shall include
available maps, data, reports, and other information regarding:
      1.   Soil and groundwater conditions.
      2.   Floodplains and wetlands.
      3.   Natural resources as described in section
8-4-2-1, "Protected Resources", of this title, on and adjacent to the subject
property.
   F.   Existing Conditions Map: Existing conditions include topographic data
and contour lines, watercourses, roadways, structures, wooded areas, and other
significant physical features.
   G.   Proposed Development Plan: The concept development plan shall indicate,
in sketch form, the following:
      1.   Requested land uses and zoning classifications.
      2.   Layouts of proposed roadways, residential lots, and other land uses.
      3.   Proposed dedications and reservations such as school and park sites,
thoroughfares, and storm detention basins.
      4.   Locations of floodplains, wetlands, or other types of open space.
      5.   Any proposed conservation easements.
      6.   Utility and drainage plans, indicating in sketch form proposed
systems for sewage disposal, water supply, and stormwater management. (Ord. 10-
001, 1-12-2010)
8-6-2-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT OR DEVELOPMENT PLAN SUBMITTAL:
The following submittals are required for the review and approval of the
preliminary plat:
   A.   Concept Plan Items: The submittal shall include items in subsections 8-
6-2-2A through E of this chapter.
   B.   Statement Of Property Ownership: The statement shall indicate, in
detail, the property ownership of record, the type of ownership, the trust
beneficiaries if title is held in trust, and the applicant's interest in the
property.
   C.   Adjacent Property Owner Identification: A map shall be provided with an
attached listing of the names and addresses of all owners of all property
parcels within six hundred feet (600') of the proposed development, as
identified on current County tax records.
   D.   Statement Of Adjacent Property Interest: The statement shall include
both the applicant's and the subject property owner's extent of control of or
interest in any properties or parcels within six hundred feet (600') of the
subject development site.
   E.   Existing Conditions Map: The map shall indicate (at the same scale as
the preliminary plat) details of existing topographic and drainage conditions
as specified in section
8-6-2-1, "General Requirements", of this chapter. It shall include all
buildings, structures, pavements, utilities, roadways, wooded areas, wetlands,
and other significant features on and within two hundred feet (200') of the
subject site.
      1.   The map shall include all relevant details of drainage, sewage
disposal and water supply facilities such as elevations, locations, sizes, and
piping materials.
      2.   Topographic contours shall be at two foot (2') intervals.
   F.   Soils And Drain Tile Map: It shall indicate (at the same scale as the
preliminary plat) the various soil types, the boundaries of each soil type and
the layouts and pipe sizes of any subsurface drainage systems existing on the
subject site or within two hundred feet (200') of the subject site. Soils
information may be obtained from the U.S. Natural Resource Conservation Service
(NRCS) publication "Soil Survey of the County" or determined from a detailed
field investigation conducted by a qualified soils expert and accepted by the
NRCS.
   G.   Wetland Delineation Report: The report shall provide the results of
field investigations conducted to determine the existence and extent of
regulated wetlands as defined by Federal and State laws. If it is determined
that no wetlands exist on the site, such a statement shall be submitted by the
applicant.
   H.   Preliminary Development Plat: The preliminary development plat shall
meet the following requirements:
      1.   The preliminary development plat shall include a plan of existing
and proposed conditions, drawn to scale, showing the following:
         a.   Existing land uses and zoning classifications.
         b.   Layouts of roadways, buildings, residential lots, and other land
uses.
         c.   Any proposed dedications and reservations such as school and park
sites, thoroughfares, storm detention basins, and floodplains, wetlands, or
other types of open space.
      2.   It shall provide the approximate dimensions and areas of the
property, and all parcels and uses shall be indicated. It shall show the lot
numbers and approximate areas and dimensions (including building lines) of all
lots.
      3.   It shall also include a delineation of anticipated development
phases.
      4.   The plat shall include other required submittal information and data
such as a location map, adjacent property zoning, land use and ownership, legal
descriptions, existing topographic conditions, and applicant identifications.
When possible, these should be shown on the plat without obscuring the proposed
development plan detail.
      5.   The plat shall also contain signature blocks for the Zoning Board of
Appeals, Plat Officer, County's Review Engineer, and Director of Environmental
Health, along with the certifications required by the Plat Officer. (Ord. 2018-
012, 6-12-2018)
   I.   Preliminary Engineering Plan: A plan, drawn to scale, indicating
existing topographic drainage utility, roadway, and land use conditions and
details. The plan shall also include layout of the proposed development and
proposed layouts and details of all new site improvements intended to serve the
development. Site improvements shall typically include topographic changes,
storm drainage systems, storm detention facilities, sewage disposal and water
supply facilities and systems, streets, sidewalks, bike paths, parking areas,
street lighting, landscape plan (chapter 9, "Landscaping And Tree Protection",
of this title), and tree preservation plan (if applicable). Other improvements
may be necessary depending on the type of development.
   J.   Critical Drainage Elevations: An indication on the engineering plan of
the proposed detention basin water and berm elevations, pavement elevations at
waterway crossings and overflow swales, and building (top of foundation)
elevations along waterways, detention facilities, and overflow drainage swales.
   K.   Preliminary Design Calculations: All calculations and documentation
required by the County's Review Engineer shall be provided to enable review and
comment on the capacity, size, strength, or other design elements of the
various site improvements. These include storm drainage systems, storm
detention systems, and street pavements.
   L.   Variance Requests: A detailed written request shall be provided for any
variances to the requirements and development standards contained in this
chapter. Variances for the preliminary plats need to be reviewed by the
Planning and Zoning Council.
   M.   Natural Resource Inventory (NRI): The submittal shall include a
resource assessment prepared by the County Soil and Water Conservation District
in accordance with State law. The applicant is responsible for requesting and
obtaining this report.
   N.   Covenants And Restrictions: As background information, written
indication and description shall be provided for any protective covenants or
deed restrictions that are to be placed on the property to be developed or
subdivided. The submittal should also include copies of any existing covenants
or restrictions.
   O.   Regulatory Approvals And Permits: A listing of all anticipated state
and federal agency approvals and permits required for development of the site
as proposed together with an indication of the specific site changes and
improvements for which the approvals and permits are required.
   P.   Street Names: A listing of proposed names for the project streets and
an indication of some alternative names in the event requested names are found
not acceptable. Approved street names shall be indicated on the preliminary
plat.
   Q.   Traffic Study: An analytical study and report of traffic volumes
created by the proposed development and the traffic's effect in existing
roadways shall be required if the county has reasonable concerns about the
impact of the development on the existing roadway facilities. Projected traffic
volumes shall also be used to design new roadways within the development.
   R.   Preliminary Landscape Plan: The plan shall provide sufficient
information about existing and proposed trees, shrubs and other natural and
landscape features to be evaluated. It shall provide the basis for the final
landscape plan (chapter 9, "Landscaping And Tree Protection", of this title).
   S.   Taxes And Assessments: Proof that all taxes and special assessments
have been paid. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-6-2-4: FINAL PLAT OR DEVELOPMENT PLAN SUBMITTAL:
The following submittals are required for the review and approval of a final
plat:
   A.   Concept Plan And Preliminary Plat Or Development Plan Documents: This
submittal shall include all documents or items required in sections
8-6-2-2, "Concept Plan Submittal", or
8-6-2-3, "Preliminary Plat Or Development Plan Submittal", of this chapter, but
deferred until this submittal.
   B.   Geotechnical Reports: These reports shall indicate:
      1.   The results of subsurface soils and groundwater investigations
conducted to determine existing conditions and the engineering properties of
the existing materials.
      2.   Recommendations regarding the soil's capabilities for the support of
proposed improvements such as roads, structures, and utilities and their
suitabilities for on site sewage disposal facilities.
   C.   Wetland Mitigation Report: An analysis and/or design report shall be
provided, as required for state and federal permit approval, that indicates the
layout and details of any new or additional wetlands to be provided and if the
proposed development will cause the disturbance or reduction of existing
regulated wetland areas.
   D.   Final Engineering Plans And Specifications: Plans and specifications
shall indicate the layout and elements of all proposed and required site
improvements in sufficient detail to enable their installation or construction.
These improvements typically consist of the following components that are
determined necessary for the project:
      1.   All earthwork and topographic changes.
      2.   Storm drainage systems and detention facilities.
      3.   Sewage collection and disposal systems.
      4.   Water supply and distribution systems.
      5.   Streets, parking areas, and street lighting.
   E.   Engineering Details, Shop Drawings, And Maintenance Manuals: The
submittal shall include the design details and/or shop drawings for any
equipment or prefabricated components, such as street lights or pumps, that
will eventually become the county's or homeowners' association's responsibility
to operate and maintain. Any necessary operations and maintenance manuals for
this equipment shall also be provided.
   F.   Final Design Calculations: The applicant shall provide original
calculations or revisions of preliminary design calculations, as necessary, to
document the adequacy of proposed site conditions and the capabilities of site
improvement items and systems. Typically, design calculations shall be provided
for underground and surface drainage systems, storm detention facilities,
sewage disposal and water supply systems, and street pavements.
   G.   Drainage Plan And Profile Study: A plan (or plans), drawn at the same
scale as the final plat, shall be provided that indicates the information on
existing and proposed conditions that is required in subsection
8-6-3-1G, "Stormwater Drainage And Detention", of this chapter, and that is
required by the state plat act. This document shall also contain the required
drainage statement signed by the engineer and owner and shall be provided on a
reproducible mylar sheet, usable as an overlay of the final plat.
   H.   Erosion And Sediment Control Plan: This shall be prepared in
conformance with the requirements of section
8-4-5 of this title.
   I.   Landscape Plan: A landscape plan shall be submitted that is in
conformance with chapter 9, "Landscaping And Tree Protection", of this title.
   J.   Quantities And Cost Estimates: The submittal shall include detailed
listings of unit quantities, estimated unit costs, and total costs for the
earthwork, drainage, storm detention, sewage collection and disposal, water
supply and distribution, streets, sidewalks, bike paths, parking areas,
pavement lighting, landscaping, and erosion control/site restoration
improvements required for the proposed development.
   K.   Applications And Permits: The applicant shall provide a complete
listing of government agency approvals and permits necessary for development of
the site and for the installation of specific site improvements. Copies of all
applications shall be provided to the department as they are submitted, and
approved permits shall be forwarded to the department as they are received.
   L.   Covenants And Restrictions: The submittal shall include copies of all
protective covenants and deed restrictions that are to be placed on the
development or property. This submittal requirement is intended to aid in
better understanding of the proposed site activities and subdivision
governance. The county does not enforce covenants or restrictions.
   M.   Final Plat Or Development Plan: A map of all or part of the subdivision
or development project in substantially the same form as the preliminary plat
or development plan, prepared in conformance with the requirements of the state
plat act, as applicable, and this chapter. This map shall conform with the
requirements of section
8-6-2-1, "General Requirements", of this chapter, and shall indicate the
following:
      1.   Written legal description of the tract to be subdivided or
developed.
      2.   Scale, shown graphically, and north point.
      3.   Angular, linear, and curvilinear dimensions for all lines, angles,
and curvatures, with functions and titles used to describe all boundaries
including subdivided tract, lot lines, streets, alleys, easements, areas to be
dedicated for public use, and other important features.
         a.   The error of closure of boundary line surveys shall not exceed
one in ten thousand (1:10,000). Angular error shall not exceed plus or minus
twenty (±20) seconds.
         b.   Lot lines shall show dimensions in feet and hundredths.
         c.   The bearings of all lot, street, and subdivision perimeter lines
shall be shown in degrees, minutes, and seconds.
      4.   Accurate location of all monuments required by statute and installed
or to be installed in such a manner that they may be located by a licensed
surveyor.
      5.   Exact location, width, and name of all streets within and adjoining
the plat and the exact location and width of all alleys, pathways, or other
rights of way.
      6.   Accurate outlines and legal description or lot designation of any
areas to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including any area to be
reserved by deed covenant for common uses of all property owners.
      7.   An identification system for numbering all lots and blocks using
consecutive lot numbers throughout all units of a subdivision, or consecutive
lot numbers throughout each identified block.
      8.   Accurate area of the subdivision tract and accurate areas of all
parcels and lots in written form.
   N.   Monument Record (Subdivisions): In accordance with state statutes, the
surveyor of record shall file with the county recorder a monument record for
all section and quarter section corners used as reference corners in the
preparation of the subdivision plat. This document must be filed no later than
the recording date of the final plat.
   O.   Plat Of Vacation: If existing plats, easements, or rights of way are to
be vacated, a separate plat of vacation shall be submitted concurrently with
the final plat or development plan and shall be recorded after approval in
accordance with state statutes.
   P.   Improvement Guarantees: Improvement guarantees shall be provided in
accordance with section
8-6-4, "Guarantee Of Improvements", of this chapter. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-6-3: SUBDIVISION AND DEVELOPMENT DESIGN:
The purpose of good subdivision and site design is to create a functional and
attractive development, to minimize adverse impacts, and to ensure a project
will be an asset to a community. To promote this purpose, the subdivision and/
or site plan shall conform to the standards in this section
8-6-3 which are designed to result in a well planned community without adding
unnecessarily to development costs. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-6-3-1: GENERAL SITE DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Site Analysis: An analysis shall be made of characteristics of the
development site, such as:
      1.   Site context.
      2.   Geology and soil.
      3.   Topography.
      4.   Climate.
      5.   Ecology.
      6.   Existing vegetation, structures, and road networks.
      7.   Visual features and scenic views.
      8.   Past and present use of the site.
   B.   Subdivision And Site Design:
      1.   Existing Plans: Design of the development shall take into
consideration all existing local and regional plans for the surrounding area.
      2.   Basis Of Development: Development of the site shall be based on the
site analysis. To the maximum extent practicable, development shall be located
to preserve the natural features of the site, to avoid environmentally
sensitive areas, and to minimize negative impacts on and alteration of natural
features.
      3.   Preserved Or Undeveloped Open Space: The following specific areas
shall be preserved as undeveloped open space, in accordance with the provisions
of chapter 4, "Environmental Standards", of this title, with applicable state
and county regulations:
         a.   Unique and/or fragile areas, including "wetlands" as defined in
section 401, federal water pollution control act amendments of 1972, and
delineated on wetlands maps prepared by the U.S. fish and wildlife service,
field verified by an on site inspection.
         b.   Significant trees or stands of trees, defined as the largest
known individual trees of each species in the state, large trees approaching
the diameter of the known largest tree, species or clumps of trees that are
rare to the area or of particular horticultural or landscape value, or stands
of mature, healthy hardwood trees sensitive to disturbance. Additional tree
preservation standards shall comply with chapter 9, "Landscaping And Tree
Protection", of this title.
         c.   Lands in the "floodplain" as defined by state and county
regulations.
         d.   Steep slopes in excess of fifteen percent (15%) as measured over
ten foot (10') intervals, unless appropriate engineering measures concerning
slope stability, erosion, and resident safety are taken.
         e.   Habitats of endangered wildlife as identified on federal or state
lists.
         f.   Historically significant structures and sites, as listed on
federal or state lists of historic places and areas of archeological importance
such as Native American burial grounds or settlements.
      4.   Additional Considerations: The development shall be laid out to
avoid adversely affecting groundwater and aquifer recharge; to reduce cut and
fill; to avoid unnecessary impervious cover; to prevent flooding; to provide
adequate access to lots and sites; and to mitigate adverse effects of shadows,
noise, odor, traffic, drainage, and utilities on neighboring properties.
   C.   Residential Development Design:
      1.   Residential lots shall front on residential access or subcollector
streets, not on collector streets or township, county or state roads, unless
such access or subcollector streets do not exist and are not required to be
installed.
      2.   Variances in lot areas and dimensions, yards, and setbacks may be
permitted for the purpose of encouraging and promoting flexibility, economy,
and environmental soundness in layout and design provided that the average
lots, areas and dimensions, yards, and setbacks within the subdivision conform
to the minimum requirements of chapter 3, "District Intensity And Bulk
Standards", of this title.
      3.   Every lot shall have sufficient access to it for emergency vehicles,
as well as for those needing access to the property and its intended use.
      4.   The placement of buildings and individual dwelling units in
residential developments shall take into consideration topography, privacy,
building height, orientation, drainage, and aesthetics.
   D.   Commercial And Industrial Development Design: Commercial and industrial
developments shall be designed according to the same principles governing the
design of residential developments.
      1.   Buildings shall be located according to topography, with
environmentally sensitive areas avoided to the maximum extent practicable.
      2.   Factors such as drainage, noise, odor, and surrounding land uses
shall be considered in siting buildings.
      3.   Sufficient access shall be provided.
      4.   Adverse impacts shall be buffered.
   E.   Circulation System Design:
      1.   The road system shall be designed to permit the safe, efficient, and
orderly movement of traffic; to meet the needs of the present and future
population served; to have a simple and logical pattern; to respect natural
features and topography; and to present an attractive streetscape.
      2.   In residential subdivisions, the road system shall be designed to
serve the needs of the neighborhood and to discourage use by through traffic.
      3.   The pedestrian system shall be located as required for safety.
Typically, walks shall be placed parallel to the street. Exceptions may be
permitted to preserve natural features or to provide visual interest. In
planned developments, walks may be placed away from the road system, but they
may also be required parallel to the street for safety reasons.
      4.   Bikeways shall be required if specifically indicated in the county's
comprehensive plan.
   F.   Landscape Design:
      1.   The amounts, types, and placement of landscaping shall comply with
the provisions of chapter 9, "Landscaping And Tree Protection", of this title.
      2.   Landscaping should be provided at site entrances, in public areas,
and adjacent to buildings. The type and amount of landscaping required shall be
allowed to vary with the type of development.
      3.   The plant or other landscaping material that best serves the
intended function shall be selected. Landscaping materials shall be appropriate
for the local environment, soil conditions, and availability of water. The
impact of growth rates, eventual sizes, life spans, and seasonal effects shall
also be considered.
   G.   Stormwater Drainage And Detention: All subdivision and land development
projects shall be required to meet applicable regulations presented in and
required by section
8-4-5 of this title. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-6-3-2: OPEN SPACE AND RECREATION:
Residential and mixed use developments in the planned residential (PR) district
and all residential cluster developments shall be required to provide open
space. Developed open space shall be designed to provide active recreational
facilities to serve the residents of the development. Undeveloped open space
shall be designed to preserve important site amenities and environmentally
sensitive areas in accordance with chapter 4, "Environmental Standards", of
this title.
   A.   Minimum Requirements:
      1.   Amount Of Required Open Space: The minimum amount of open space
proposed for development shall comply with the requirements of section
8-3-2-1, "Residential Density Standards", of this title, and the resource
protection standards specified in section
8-4-2, "Resource Protection Standards", of this title.
      2.   Size Of Open Space Parcels: The area of each parcel of open space
designed for active recreational purposes shall be of such minimum dimensions
as to be functionally usable.
      3.   Location Of Open Space Parcels: Open space parcels shall be
convenient to the dwelling units they are intended to serve. However, because
of noise generation, they shall be sited with sensitivity to surrounding
development. Active recreation areas shall not be located adjacent to arterial
roadways.
   B.   Open Space Improvements:
      1.   The county may require the installation of recreational facilities,
taking into consideration:
         a.   The character of the open space land;
         b.   The estimated age and the recreation needs of persons likely to
reside in the development;
         c.   Proximity, nature, and excess capacity of existing municipal
recreation facilities; and
         d.   The cost of the recreational facilities.
      2.   Undeveloped Open Space: As a general principle, undeveloped open
space should be left in its natural state. A developer may make certain
improvements such as the cutting of trails for walking or jogging, or the
provision of picnic areas, etc. In addition, a developer may be required to
make other improvements, such as removing dead or diseased trees, thinning
trees or other vegetation to encourage more desirable growth, and grading and
seeding. However, the preservation of the trees shall comply with chapter 9,
"Landscaping And Tree Protection", of this title.
   C.   Deed Restrictions: Any lands dedicated for open space purposes shall
contain appropriate covenants and deed restrictions, approved by the county
state's attorney ensuring that:
      1.   The open area will not be further subdivided in the future.
      2.   The use of the open space will continue in perpetuity for the
purpose specified.
      3.   Appropriate provisions will be made for the maintenance of the open
space.
   D.   Open Space Ownership: The type of ownership of land dedicated for open
space purposes shall be selected by the owner, developer, or subdivider,
subject to the approval of the county board. Type of ownership may include, but
is not necessarily limited to, the following:
      1.   The county, subject to acceptance by the county board.
      2.   Other public jurisdictions or agencies, subject to their acceptance.
      3.   Quasi-public organizations, subject to their acceptance.
      4.   Homeowner, condominium, or cooperative associations or
organizations.
      5.   Shared, undivided interest by all property owners in the subdivision
or development.
   E.   Homeowners' Association: If the open space is owned and maintained by a
homeowners' or condominium association, the developer shall file a declaration
of covenants and restrictions that will govern the association, to be submitted
with the application for the preliminary approval. The provisions shall
include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:
      1.   The homeowners' association must be established before the homes are
sold.
      2.   Membership must be mandatory for each home buyer and any successive
buyer.
      3.   The open space restrictions must be permanent, not just for a period
of years.
      4.   The association must be responsible for liability insurance, local
taxes, and the maintenance of recreational and other facilities.
      5.   Homeowners must pay their pro rata share of the cost, and the
assessment levied by the association can become a lien on the property if
allowed in the master deed establishing the homeowners' association.
      6.   The association must be able to adjust the assessment to meet
changed needs.
   F.   Open Space Maintenance: The person or entity identified in subsection D
of this section as having the right of ownership or control over the open space
shall be responsible for its continued upkeep and proper maintenance.
   G.   Exceptions To Standards: Minor deviations from open space standards may
be permitted when it can be determined that:
      1.   The objectives underlying these standards can be met without strict
adherence to them; and/or
      2.   Because of peculiarities in the tract of land or the facilities
proposed, it would be unreasonable to require strict adherence to these
standards. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-6-3-3: UTILITY LINES AND MAINS:
   A.   General Placement Requirements: All electric, telephone, television,
and other communication lines, both main and service connections, servicing new
developments shall be provided by underground wiring. They shall be placed
within easements or dedicated public rights of way and installed in accordance
with the prevailing standards and practices of the utility or other companies
providing such services. Placement of such utility lines within easements
rather than street rights of way is preferred and shall be required where
necessary to avoid or minimize conflict with pavements, drainage systems, or
sewer and water utilities.
   B.   Use Of Overhead Existing Lines: Lots that abut existing easements or
public rights of way where overhead electric or telephone distribution supply
lines and service connections have previously been installed may be supplied
with electric and telephone service from those overhead lines. However, the
service connections from the utilities' overhead lines shall be installed
underground. In the case of existing overhead utilities, should a road
widening, or an extension of service, or other such condition occur as a result
of the subdivision and necessitate the replacement or relocation of such
utilities, such replacement or relocation shall be underground.
   C.   Pole Locations: Where overhead lines are permitted as the exception,
the placement and alignment of poles shall be designed to lessen the visual
impact of overhead lines.
      1.   Alignments and pole locations shall be carefully routed to avoid
locations along horizons.
      2.   Clearing swaths through treed areas shall be avoided by selective
cutting and a staggered alignment.
      3.   Trees shall be planted in open areas and at key locations to
minimize the view of the poles and the alignments, and alignments shall follow
rear lot lines and other alignments. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-6-3-4: STREETS, ROADWAYS, AND PATHS:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Compliance With Local And State Regulations:
         a.   Local Plan: Streets shall be planned and arranged to conform to
the transportation policies and traffic map contained in the official county
policy plan. For streets not shown on the county plan or map, the arrangement
shall provide for appropriate extensions of existing streets and anticipated
future development of adjacent areas. The county highway engineer and township
road commissioner shall be consulted as to the appropriateness of any
extensions that affect their jurisdictions.
         b.   State And Federal Guidelines: It is intended that the streets and
roadways covered by this section be in substantial conformance with the Grundy
County highway access regulation ordinance and the Illinois department of
transportation standards and criteria and the guidelines contained in the
American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials publication
"A Policy On Geometric Design Of Highways And Streets". Variations of specific
requirements of this section may be required or allowed to provide design
flexibility tailored to particular situations, so long as such variations
remain within the intended requirement limits and guidelines.
      2.   Residential Streets: Residential streets shall be arranged so as to
discourage through traffic and provide for maximum privacy.
      3.   Design Associated With Speed Limit: The street requirements provided
in this section are based on a design speed of forty (40) miles per hour for
collector streets, thirty (30) miles per hour for subcollector and rural lanes,
and twenty five (25) miles per hour for access streets and cul-de-sacs. When
allowable design speeds are greater than these values, streets shall be
designed in accordance with appropriate standards and criteria of the Illinois
department of transportation, bureau of local roads and streets. Street design
based on speeds less than those noted above may be required (or allowed) if
warranted by development, topographic conditions, or the advice of the county
highway engineer or township road commissioner.
      4.   Standards Applicable To Certain Types Of Streets: The design
requirements indicated in this section are for streets and roadways within and
adjacent to residential and nonresidential developments and subdivisions
intended to serve local access and traffic collection needs. Roadways intended
primarily to serve intracounty travel and provide only limited access to
abutting lands (arterial and major collector roads) shall be designed in
accordance with Illinois department of transportation procedures, standards,
and criteria.
   B.   Street Hierarchy:
      1.   Streets shall be classified in a street hierarchy system with design
tailored to function accordingly. The street hierarchy system shall be defined
by road function and average daily traffic (ADT), calculated by trip generation
rates prepared by the Institute Of Transportation Engineers. Trip generation
rates from other sources may be used if the applicant demonstrates that these
sources better reflect local conditions.
      2.   Each residential street shall be classified and designed for its
entire length to meet the standards for one of the street types defined in
section
8-17-1-4, figures 1 through 3 of this title. The applicant shall demonstrate to
the county's satisfaction that the distribution of traffic to the proposed
street system will not exceed the ADT guidelines indicated in section
8-17-1-1 of this title for any proposed street type. Anticipated future
developed areas shall be taken into account in determining traffic volumes.
      3.   Nonresidential development and subdivision streets shall be
classified and designed in accordance with the uses served and traffic types
and volumes to be handled. Adequate allowance shall be made for generated truck
traffic. The design of such streets shall be governed by applicable Illinois
department of transportation procedures, standards, and criteria.
   C.   Pavement Width:
      1.   Pavement width for each street classification shall be determined by
moving traffic, parking, and curbing requirements that are based on the form
and intensity of development.
      2.   Intensity of residential development shall be based on lot frontage
as follows in
table 8-6-3-4, "Intensity Of Development", of this section:
TABLE 8-6-3-4
INTENSITY OF DEVELOPMENT
 
Lot Frontage (In Feet) Intensity
   More than 150    Low
   80 to 150        Medium
   Less than 80     High
 
      3.   Pavement width shall also consider possible limitations imposed by
sight distance, climate, terrain, and maintenance needs. In order to minimize
street costs, the minimum width assuring satisfaction of needs shall be
selected.
      4.   Pavement widths required for each street classification are shown in
section
8-17-1-2 of this title.
      5.   At medium development intensity, with lot frontage greater than one
hundred fifteen feet (115'), the pavement width may be reduced (subject to
county approval) to that required for low intensity development when front yard
setbacks exceed sixty feet (60') and it can be demonstrated that sufficient off
street parking will exist.
      6.   At intersections with significant left turn traffic, the pavement
width shall be widened sufficiently to allow for a separate left turn lane.
Minimum width of a left turn lane shall be ten feet (10').
   D.   Pavement Edges:
      1.   Curbing:
         a.   Curb requirements shall vary according to street hierarchy and
intensity of development in accordance with the requirements shown in sections
8-17-1-2 and
8-17-1-4, figures 1 through 4 of this title.
            (1)   For drainage control;
            (2)   To stabilize pavement edges;
            (3)   To delineate parking areas;
            (4)   At intersections;
            (5)   At corners; and
            (6)   At tight radii.
         b.   Where curbing is not required, some type of edge definition and
stabilization shall be furnished for safety reasons and to prevent pavement
deterioration.
         c.   At medium development intensity, the curbing requirement may be
waived where front yard setbacks exceed sixty feet (60') and it can be
demonstrated that sufficient off street parking will exist.
         d.   Flexibility regarding curb type shall be permitted as long as the
curb type accommodates the system of drainage proposed. Typically, curbing
shall be B6.12 or M3.12 curb and gutter depending on roadway type and site
development conditions.
         e.   Depressed curb sections shall be installed where necessary to
provide a ramp for bicycles and/or wheelchairs as required by state law.
         f.   Curbing shall be constructed according to the specifications
included in this section.
      2.   Shoulders And Drainage Swales:
         a.   Shoulders and drainage swales shall be provided rather than curbs
when:
            (1)   Shoulders are specified by other Illinois DOT or Grundy
County highway standards.
            (2)   Soil or topography makes the use of shoulders and drainage
swales preferable.
            (3)   It is in the best interest of the county to maintain its
rural character by using shoulders and drainage swales instead of curbs.
         b.   Shoulder requirements shall vary according to street hierarchy
and intensity of development in accordance with the requirements shown in
sections
8-17-1-2 and
8-17-1-4, figures 1 through 4 of this title.
         c.   Shoulders shall have widths as indicated in section
8-17-1-2 and
8-17-1-4, figures 1 through 4 of this title, and shall be located within the
street right of way. The width of drainage swales shall be determined by site
specific conditions.
         d.   Shoulders shall consist of compacted aggregate and earth material
and shall be constructed according to the specifications included in this
section.
   E.   Sidewalks And Pathways:
      1.   Sidewalks shall be provided, depending on road classification and
intensity of development, in accordance with the requirements indicated in
sections
8-17-1-2 and
8-17-1-4, figures 1 through 4 of this title. Sidewalks may also be required in
proximity to pedestrian generators, to continue a walk on an existing street,
to link pedestrian origin and destination areas, or to serve probable future
development as indicated in applicable master plans.
      2.   In conventional subdivisions or development projects, sidewalks
shall be placed in the right of way, parallel to the street, unless an
exception has been permitted to:
         a.   Preserve topographical or natural features;
         b.   Provide visual interest; or
         c.   Unless the applicant shows that an alternative pedestrian system
provides safe and convenient circulation.
      3.   Pathways are intended for bicycle traffic, as well as pedestrians,
and may be required when:
         a.   Topography and/or site conditions make the use of pathways
preferable;
         b.   It is in the best interest of the community to preserve its rural
character by using pathways instead of sidewalks; or
         c.   Significant bicycle traffic is anticipated and it is desirable to
keep such traffic off the roadway.
      4.   In planned residential or mixed use developments, sidewalks or
pathways may be located away from the road system to link dwelling units with
other dwelling units, the street, and on site activity centers such as shopping
areas and school/recreational areas. They may also be required to be parallel
to the street for safety and other reasons.
      5.   Pedestrianway easements (10 foot minimum width) and pavements may be
required through the center of blocks more than six hundred feet (600') long to
provide circulation or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping areas, or other
community facilities.
      6.   Sidewalks shall typically be four feet (4') wide. Wider sidewalks
may be necessary near pedestrian generators and employment centers. Sidewalks
shall be at least six feet (6') wide where they abut curbs or pavements and are
subject to vehicle overhang.
      7.   Pathways shall typically measure six feet (6') in width. Where
significant two-way bicycle traffic is expected, an eight foot (8') width shall
be required.
      8.   Sidewalks and pathways shall be constructed according to the
specifications included in this section.
   F.   Bikeways:
      1.   Separate bicycle paths shall be required:
         a.   If such paths have been specified as part of the county's
comprehensive plan; or
         b.   If such paths are necessary for pedestrian and bicycle traffic
circulation within a planned residential or mixed use development.
      2.   Bicycle lanes, where required, shall be placed in the outside lane
of a roadway, adjacent to the curb or shoulder. When on street parking is
permitted, the bicycle lane shall be between the parking lane and the outer
lane of moving vehicles. Lanes shall be delineated with markings, preferably
striping. Raised reflectors or curbs shall not be used.
      3.   Bikeways shall be constructed according to the specifications
included in this section and also conform to the easement provisions included
in subsection
8-6-3-9B of this chapter.
   G.   Relationship Of Street, Utility, And Shade Tree Locations:
      1.   Sewer and water utilities shall generally be located within the
right of way on both sides of and parallel to the street. Such utilities may
also be located in easements adjacent to the right of way, depending on
development and site conditions.
      2.   Underground electric, telephone, television, and other communication
lines shall preferably be located within utility easements rather than within
street rights of way. Poles for overhead utilities shall be located along
street rights of way within two feet (2') of the property/right of way boundary
line.
      3.   Trees along streets with curb and gutter edges and without parkway
drainage swales shall be located within the street right of way. Trees along
streets with drainage swales shall be placed outside of the street right of way
(within 20 feet of said right of way) unless the street parkway is wide enough
to avoid interferences between swales and trees. Refer to chapter 9,
"Landscaping And Tree Protection", of this title, for additional tree location
requirements.
   H.   Right Of Way:
      1.   The right of way shall be measured from lot line to lot line and
shall be sufficiently wide to contain the required travel pavement, curbs or
shoulders, sidewalks, drainage swales, utilities, and shade trees. Right of way
widths shall be increased if necessary to accommodate major drainage swales,
but swales may be partially located on easements adjacent to the right of way
depending on development and site conditions. Typical right of way requirements
are shown in sections
8-17-1-2 and
8-17-1-4, figures 1 through 4 of this title.
      2.   The right of way width of a new street that is a continuation of an
existing street shall be continued at a width no less than that of the existing
street.
      3.   The right of way shall reflect future development and traffic
conditions anticipated by the county.
   I.   Cul-De-Sacs:
      1.   Maximum cul-de-sac lengths shall be a function of the type and
density of development served. Rather than requiring a maximum length for all
situations, cul-de-sacs shall be classified by traffic volumes (ADT) into the
following two (2) street categories:
         a.   Residential access streets with a maximum ADT of two hundred
fifty (250) and no length limit.
         b.   Subcollector with a maximum ADT of five hundred (500) and length
limit of one thousand feet (1,000').
      2.   A length variance for a subcollector street will be considered if
the cul-de-sac has a paved emergency access connection to an adjacent collector
or higher category street.
      3.   Turnarounds shall typically be of a circular type with a minimum
pavement radius of fifty feet (50'). Subject to specific county highway
commissioner approval, turnarounds may be provided with a landscaped island. In
such cases, minimum pavement width shall be twenty two feet (22').
   J.   Sight Distance:
      1.   Sight distances along roadways and at intersections shall be based
on the design speed of the roadways.
      2.   Minimum stopping sight distance along any type of local street other
than a collector shall be two hundred feet (200'). The minimum requirement
along a collector street shall be three hundred twenty five feet (325').
      3.   Design for passing sight distance is seldom applicable on local
streets and has not been used as a criterion in establishing the standards
indicated in this section. If vehicle passing opportunities are considered
necessary or desirable, the horizontal and vertical curve standards shall be
adjusted to provide the passing sight distance required for the design speed
established.
      4.   Minimum corner sight distance at intersections of local streets
other than collectors shall be three hundred ten feet (310'). At a collector
street intersection, the minimum requirement shall be four hundred fifteen feet
(415'). Corner sight distance shall be measured from a point on the lower
category street at least twenty feet (20') from the edge of the higher category
street pavement.
      5.   Corner sight distance at the intersection of a local street with an
arterial or major collector road shall be based on the design speed of said
road. Fifty (50) miles per hour requires five hundred fifteen feet (515'), and
sixty (60) miles per hour requires six hundred fifty feet (650').
      6.   To maintain visibility at intersections, sight triangle easements
shall be provided at street corners.
         a.   These easements shall consist of the area within the triangle
defined by the following lengths along the street right of way lines, measured
from the intersection of said lines. The noted length for the no stop control
condition is based on a thirty (30) mile per hour design speed for both
streets. If the design speed for either street exceeds thirty (30) miles per
hour, the sight triangle lengths shall be adjusted accordingly.
            (1)   Forty feet by forty feet (40' x 40') where stop control is
provided.
            (2)   Ninety feet by ninety feet (90' x 90') where stop control is
not provided.
         b.   Landscaping, structures, or other accessory uses shall comply
with the provisions of section
8-2-3-16, "Vision Clearance For Corner Lots", of this title. A public right of
entry shall be reserved for the purpose of removing any object or material that
obstructs the clear sight.
         c.   Existing ground, vegetation, trees, and structures within this
easement that would create a traffic hazard by limiting visibility shall be
removed to the extent necessary to provide adequate visibility.
   K.   Grades And Vertical Curves:
      1.   Minimum street grade permitted for streets with curb and gutter
shall be 0.5 percent. Where topographical conditions permit, grades in excess
of 0.5 percent shall be used.
      2.   Maximum street grade shall vary by road hierarchy, with flatter
grades required for roads with higher ADTs, in accordance with the requirements
shown in section
8-17-1-3 of this title.
      3.   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. Maximum grade within fifty feet (50') of intersections shall be as
indicated in section
8-17-1-3 of this title.
      4.   Minimum length or crest and sag vertical curves shall be based on
providing an adequate stopping site distance and shall be as shown in section
8-17-1-3 of this title.
   L.   Intersection And Roadway Geometrics:
      1.   Street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as possible.
In no case shall an intersection be at less than seventy five degrees (75°).
      2.   New intersections along one side of an existing street shall, if
possible, coincide with any existing intersections on the opposite side of each
street. Use of "T" intersections in subdivisions shall be encouraged. To avoid
corner cutting when inadequate offsets exist between adjacent intersections,
offsets shall measure at least one hundred seventy five (175) to two hundred
feet (200') between centerlines.
      3.   Intersections shall be rounded at the surface edge (curb line), with
the street having the highest radius requirement as shown in section
8-17-1-3 of this title, determining the minimum standard for all surface edges
(curb lines).
      4.   Intersections with roads under the jurisdiction of an agency other
than the county or local township shall be as specifically required by the
subject agency.
      5.   Minimum requirements for centerline radius, tangent length between
reverse curves, and edge radii shall be as shown in section
8-17-1-3 of this title.
   M.   Pavements:
      1.   Cross Section Slopes:
         a.   Pavement cross slope (crown) must be adequate to provide proper
drainage. Bituminous pavement cross slopes shall be three- sixteenths inch (3/
16") to three-eighths inch (3/8") per foot. Aggregate pavement cross slopes
shall be one-fourth inch (1/4") to one-half inch (1/2") per foot.
         b.   Bituminous shoulder cross slopes shall be one-fourth inch (1/4")
to one-half inch (1/2") per foot. Gravel shoulders shall be one-half inch (1/
2") to three-fourths inch (3/4") per foot, and turf shoulders shall be three-
fourths inch (3/4") to one inch (1") per foot.
         c.   At super elevated pavement sections, shoulder cross slopes shall
be adjusted so that the algebraic difference between the pavement and shoulder
slopes does not exceed eight percent (8%).
         d.   Front slopes of drainage swales shall not exceed three to one (3:
1). Back slopes shall not exceed two to one (2:1). Back slopes more than four
feet (4') high shall not exceed three to one (3:1).
         e.   Pavement superelevation is typically not used on local streets
but, depending on conditions, may be required on collector streets. The rate of
superelevation shall not exceed 0.08 foot per foot for rural conditions and
0.04 foot per foot for urban conditions.
      2.   Thickness And Materials:
         a.   Local streets covered by this chapter shall typically consist of
bituminous concrete surface and binder courses, an aggregate base course, and a
geotextile fabric placed on a suitable nonorganic subgrade.
         b.   Required pavement thickness shall be a function of traffic
volumes anticipated, pavement materials used, and subgrade support available.
         c.   Pavement thickness design procedures and criteria shall be in
accordance with the Illinois department of transportation publication
"Structural Design Of Flexible Pavement".
         d.   Residential collector streets shall have a structural number of
3.0 or greater. The minimum structural number for all other local residential
streets shall be 2.5. Streets intended for commercial or industrial development
shall have a structural number of 3.0 or greater. These minimum requirements
are based on a subgrade IBR value of 3.0. If this subgrade strength is not
available, the pavement structure section shall be increased in accordance with
IDOT design procedures.
         e.   Street pavements shall be constructed according to the
specifications included in this chapter.
      3.   Typical Street Sections: Section
8-17-1-4, figures 1 through 4 of this title graphically display the various
requirements indicated in this section. The street sections shown are intended
to meet typical conditions and shall be required unless revisions are approved
by the county. Such changes or variations will be allowed or required if, by
reasonable and current engineering practices and standards, they are determined
necessary to resolve specific traffic or site conditions.
   N.   Driveways:
      1.   Local access driveway connections to public streets shall typically
be constructed in accordance with section
8-17-1-5 of this title.
      2.   Revisions to the requirements indicated in section
8-17-1-5 of this title, may be necessary to accommodate specific roadway, site
or traffic conditions (see subsection M3 of this section).
   O.   Signs And Markings:
      1.   Traffic control signs and pavement markings shall be provided and
installed in conformance with the principles and standards contained in the
Illinois department of transportation publication "Manual On Uniform Traffic
Control Devices" (MUTCD).
      2.   The locations and detailed requirements of regulatory and warning
signs and pavement markings shall be as required by the county highway
department.
      3.   Pavement centerlines shall be provided on streets with an ADT
greater than five hundred (500) vehicles. Pavement edge lines shall be provided
on streets with shoulders when the ADT exceeds five hundred (500) vehicles.
Centerlines and edge lines shall also be provided in other situations when
specifically required by the county.
      4.   Street name signs shall be installed at all street intersections.
Placement, size and materials shall be in accordance with IDOT and MUTCD
requirements. At four-way intersections, two (2) sign installations shall be
provided. These signs shall be placed on diagonal corners so that they will be
on the near left hand and far right hand sides of the intersection for vehicles
on the street with the higher traffic volume.
      5.   Information signs in planned residential or mixed use developments
shall be placed so as to avoid street sight distance and other traffic safety
problems. Such signs shall also follow a design theme that is related and
complementary to other elements of the overall site design. Placement, size,
and appearance of information signs shall be subject to approval of the county.
      6.   Traffic control signs along public roadways shall be installed by
the governing local agency (township or county highway department). Material
and installation costs shall be paid for by the developer.
   P.   Street Lighting:
      1.   Streetlights typically shall be provided at all street
intersections, at commercial/industrial driveways, at residential off street
parking access drives, and at a spacing not to exceed six hundred feet (600')
between intersections. Streetlights shall also be provided at curves where
specifically required by the county.
      2.   Continuous lighting may be required along commercial/industrial land
use streets and along collector streets within or adjacent to high and medium
intensity developments. The need for continuous lighting shall depend on the
intensity of land use, volume of vehicle traffic, and amount of pedestrian
traffic.
      3.   The publication "American National Standard Practice For Roadway
Lighting" shall be used as a guide in the design of street lighting systems.
Illumination levels and uniformity ratios should be as recommended in that
publication.
      4.   Streetlights shall typically consist of a sharp cutoff type
luminaire, with a four (4) to six foot (6') bracket arm mounted on a concrete
or steel standard (pole). Maximum mounting height within residential areas
shall be thirty feet (30'). Specific luminaire and standard provided shall be
as approved by the county.
      5.   Streetlights shall be provided and installed according to county
specifications.
      6.   The owner, subdivider, and owners of each subdivision required by
this section to have a street lighting system shall be required to establish a
subdivision or homeowners' association to maintain the system. It shall be
responsible for payment of the repair, replacement, maintenance, and energy
costs generated by the street lighting system once it is provided by the owner
or subdivider. The association shall be responsible for payment directly to the
provider of repair, replacement, maintenance, or energy services. The
association shall keep the street lighting system in good repair and shall
repair or replace nonoperating fixtures or other portions of the system within
thirty (30) days of the time they become nonoperational. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-6-3-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Number Of Spaces: The number of off street parking spaces that shall be
required shall be as specified in chapter 8, "Off Street Parking And Loading;
Access Management; Exterior Lighting", of this title.
   B.   Size Of Spaces And Aisles: The dimensions of automobile off street
parking spaces and aisles shall comply with the provisions of chapter 8, "Off
Street Parking And Loading; Access Management; Exterior Lighting", of this
title.
   C.   Parking Areas:
      1.   Location: Automobile off street parking areas in planned residential
or mixed use projects shall be oriented to and be located within a reasonable
walking distance of the buildings they are designed to serve. Maximum walking
distances shall be:
         a.   Two hundred fifty feet (250') for residents,
         b.   Three hundred feet (300') for guests, and
         c.   Eight hundred feet (800') for shoppers and employees.
      2.   Access: Access to parking areas shall be designed so as not to
obstruct the free flow of traffic. There shall be adequate provision for
entrance to and exit from all parking spaces to ensure ease of mobility, ample
clearance, and safety of vehicles and pedestrians.
      3.   Sidewalks: Where sidewalks occur in automobile parking areas, parked
vehicles shall not overhang the sidewalk unless an additional two feet (2') of
sidewalk width is provided in order to accommodate such overhang.
      4.   Pavement Markings And Signs: All parking spaces, turning lanes, no
parking zones, etc., shall be adequately defined with pavement markings. Signs
shall be installed as required to control traffic movements and parking. Stop
signs shall, in all cases, be installed at exit drive street locations.
      5.   Landscaping: Parking areas shall be suitably landscaped to minimize
noise, glare, and other nuisance characteristics, as well as to improve the
environment of the site and surrounding area. Large parking lots shall be
broken down into sections as appropriate for the type and size of the
development. Sections shall be separated by landscaped dividing strips, berms,
and similar elements. Landscaping shall also be consistent with the
requirements of chapter 9, "Landscaping And Tree Protection", of this title.
   D.   Pavements:
      1.   Off street parking and driveway pavements shall typically consist of
bituminous concrete surface and binder courses and an aggregate base course as
a suitable nonorganic subgrade. The use of a geotextiles fabric between the
base course and subgrade is suggested.
      2.   Required pavement thickness shall be determined in accordance with
subsection
8-6-3-4M2 of this chapter.
      3.   Parking areas (spaces and aisles) with little or no truck traffic
shall have a structural number of 2.2 or greater. The minimum structural number
of main drives with significant traffic volume and driveways that serve truck
traffic shall be 2.5.
      4.   Single-family residential driveways shall, as a minimum, consist of
two inches (2") of bituminous concrete and six inches (6") of aggregate base.
Residential driveways in agricultural areas may be of stone or gravel where
such driveways commonly exist on surrounding properties of similar use.
      5.   Driveway aprons within street rights of way shall be as indicated in
subsection
8-6-3-4N of this chapter.
      6.   The use of curbs along pavement edges is suggested. Curbs or precast
wheel stops shall be provided along all parking spaces.
      7.   Where curbs are not provided along pavement edges, the base course
shall extend one foot (1') beyond the edge of the binder and surface courses.
      8.   Parking area and driveway pavements shall be constructed according
to the specifications included in this chapter. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-6-3-6: SEWAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL 1 :
   A.   General Sewage Collection And Disposal Requirements:
      1.   Developments and occupied facilities shall be connected to an
approved and functioning public or community sewage collection and centralized
treatment system, where such a system is available. Where public or community
sewers and a centralized treatment plant are not available, developments shall
provide and occupied facilities shall be connected to such a collection and
treatment system when required by the county, as discussed in this section.
      2.   The use of individual lot or building on site sewage disposal
systems or facilities shall be restricted and shall be dependent on local soil
and groundwater conditions and the known or anticipated extent/density of
development within the area. The use of cluster on site disposal systems may be
required by the county health department to overcome adverse site conditions.
      3.   Depending on the number of dwelling units, residential developments
shall be connected to an existing sanitary sewer system if service is
available, within the following distances from the nearest property line to the
sanitary sewer as shown in
table 8-6-3-6, "Sanitary Sewer System Distance Requirements", of this section.
TABLE 8-6-3-6
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
 
Development Size Distance
   1 unit         300 feet
   2 units        400 feet
   3 units        600 feet
   4 units        800 feet
   5 - 15 unit   1,000 feet
 
      4.   When a residential subdivision or development with more than fifteen
(15) units is located within one mile of an existing sanitary sewer system,
adequate justification shall be provided as to why it should not be connected
to the existing sewer system. For residential developments with more than
fifteen (15) units and located more than one mile from an existing system,
sewage disposal strategy shall be determined on a case by case basis, taking
into consideration the density of development, costs, and the concerns and
criteria noted in this section.
      5.   Small scale nonresidential developments may be required to be
connected to an existing sanitary sewer system if service is available within
one thousand feet (1,000'). Requirements for large scale nonresidential
development within or more than one mile from an existing system shall be as
indicated in subsection A4 of this section. Judgments and decisions regarding
nonresidential factors such as size, water use, and suitability of on site
sewage disposal facilities shall be as reasonably determined by the county on
an individual basis taking into account the specific characteristics of the
development.
      6.   A complete public or community sewage collection and centralized
treatment system may be required by the county in order to:
         a.   Protect the quality of groundwater that may be used for potable
water.
         b.   Protect the quality of surface waters including wetlands,
streams, ponds, lakes, and rivers.
         c.   Maintain the quality of aquatic habitats, thereby protecting a
variety of plant and animal species.
         d.   Prevent failure of individual sewage disposal systems.
         e.   Protect citizens from the health hazards associated with the
failure of individual sewage disposal systems.
         f.   Protect public investments in public sewer systems.
      7.   The following conditions shall be evaluated in determining the
necessity of a public or community sewage system in place of individual or
cluster on site sewage disposal systems:
         a.   Location of the development with regard to extraterritorial
limits of municipalities with public sewage systems.
         b.   Classification of the soils within areas proposed or needed for
septic ground absorption fields, with regard to the suitability or restrictions
of these soils for such absorption fields. The land use department requires
that, prior to permitting and installing a new septic system, a soil
evaluation, performed by a member of the Illinois Soil Classifier Association,
must be made in the area that the proposed system is to be installed. This
percolation ("perc") test is necessary to determine the absorption capacity of
soils, and the test results will be useful in determining the appropriate type
of sewage disposal system.
         c.   The possibility of future adjacent development that could
negatively impact the concerns noted in subsection A6 of this section.
      8.   If a sanitary sewer system is not available and a new community
sewage system with centralized treatment is not warranted or feasible,
residential housing units and nonresidential facilities shall be served by
individual or cluster on site sewage disposal systems.
         a.   Development density and lot sizes shall be in accordance with
county requirements for the use of such on site disposal systems.
         b.   The type and design of these on site systems shall be subject to
specific site conditions listed by the county health department. They include,
but are not limited to, topography, soil types, bedrock, and groundwater.
         c.   The use of cluster systems or other alternative on site
collection and treatment systems may be required to overcome unsuitable
conditions. A cluster system shall typically consist of individual septic tanks
for each lot or building, a gravity or pressure sewer system, and a small
neighborhood treatment facility such as a sand filter or aerobic plant.
         d.   The use, design, installation, and operation of all on site
sewage disposal systems shall conform to the requirements of the county health
department and will require a permit issued by said department.
            (1)   In some cases, permit approval of the Illinois EPA will be
required in lieu of county approval. Systems that are regulated by the IEPA are
not regulated by the county health department.
            (2)   The county health department enforces the Illinois private
sewage disposal act and code which is promulgated, published, and enforced by
the Illinois department of public health (IDPH). The county has adopted and
does enforce standards that are more stringent than those of the IDPH.
      9.   If it is determined that soil conditions will not support on site
disposal and a satisfactory central collection and disposal system cannot be
provided and maintained, the subdivision or development project shall be denied
by the county board.
      10.   Due to adverse soil or water table conditions, the following
requirements shall apply: Individual dwellings within subdivisions of three (3)
or more lots and nonresidential and multi-family residential facilities within
any size development that are otherwise permitted to have individual on site
sewage disposal systems may be required to have one of the following
alternative on site disposal systems in lieu of a conventional septic tank
seepage field system. Specific requirements shall be as specified by the county
health department upon determination of actual site conditions.
         a.   Septic tank with pumped discharge to an elevated sand filter
(Wisconsin mound).
         b.   Septic tank with a buried sand filter and trickle trenches.
         c.   Aerobic treatment plant with pumped discharge to a full size
seepage field, a buried sand filter, or an elevated sand filter (Wisconsin
mound).
         d.   Aerobic plant with a trickle trench connected to a subsurface
drainage pipe or storm sewer.
         e.   Other approved "alternative" systems.
      11.   Developments that are permitted to have individual sand filter or
aerobic plant on site sewage disposal systems will be required to install
common, community discharge sewers connecting all individual on site systems to
an acceptable receiving stream or body of water, if the local site, soil, and
groundwater conditions indicated in subsection A10 of this section will prevent
adequate subsurface disposal of effluent from seepage fields or sand filters.
Determination of local conditions and the need for common discharge sewers
shall be by the county health department.
      12.   When soil conditions are rated severe for ground absorption
disposal of effluent, installation of a subsurface drainage system may be
required (by the county health department) to lower the groundwater level. Such
drainage systems shall be designed to prevent entry of sewage system effluent.
      13.   If a public or community sewage collection and treatment system is
required, an agreement between the county and the applicant (developer) may be
established (at the county's option) to enable equitable recoupment of system
construction and operating costs if other developments connect to the system.
      14.   If a sanitary sewer system will be provided to the area within a
five (5) year period as indicated in a sewer master plan, official map, or
other official document, the county may require installation of a capped
system, or "dry lines" (mains only), or the county may require a payment in
lieu of the improvements.
      15.   All proposals for new sanitary sewer systems, or extensions to
existing sewer systems, or the installation of "dry lines", or the use of
individual on site disposal systems shall be subject to the approval of the
county.
   B.   Public System Capacity:
      1.   Sanitary sewer systems shall be adequate to handle anticipated flows
based on complete development of the defined service area. Sewer flow from
future development areas shall be based on estimates of development type and
density as determined by the Illinois EPA. Sewers shall be designed to carry
peak flows from the areas served.
      2.   Average and peak flows from proposed development areas and
facilities shall be calculated from sewage flow guides and standards determined
to be acceptable to both the county and the Illinois EPA.
      3.   Daily sewer flows from residential areas shall be determined from
the population served. For design purposes, average daily wastewater flow shall
be assumed to be one hundred (100) gallons per day (gpd) per person. A lower
per capita flow rate may be used if it can be substantiated to the satisfaction
of both the county and the Illinois EPA.
      4.   Peak flows for residential area systems with populations of less
than five hundred (500) people shall be assumed to be four (4) times average
daily flow. Peak flow ratios for larger systems shall be determined from the
following formula:
 
O max = 18 + (P)1/2, where P = population in thousands
O avg  4 + (P)1/2
 
   C.   System Design And Layout:
      1.   General Design And Layout Requirements:
         a.   Sewage system criteria and standards shall be in accordance with
accepted engineering practices regarding such systems. The county shall have
the prerogative to make use of those practices that it believes to represent
the best available information and procedures.
         b.   Alternatives to standard gravity sewer systems such as pressure
sewers (grinder pump or septic tank effluent pump), small diameter gravity
sewers, and vacuum sewers may be permitted by the county, depending on specific
development and site conditions and circumstances.
         c.   Sewage collection and treatment facilities shall be designed and
constructed to conform with all applicable EPA regulations and permit
requirements.
      2.   Location Of Public Sewers:
         a.   Sanitary sewers shall typically be located within street rights
of way or in utility easements adjacent to street rights of way.
         b.   Sanitary sewers may be located within open space areas or along
rear or side lot lines, if such a layout provides an efficient system and if
adequate maintenance access is provided to all manholes.
         c.   If maintenance access cannot be provided to an entire section of
sewer between manholes, or if a sewer is close to a building or within a high
groundwater area, or if it passes under a creek or river, the use of water main
quality pressure pipe shall be required.
         d.   All sewers not within dedicated street rights of way shall be
located within defined utility easements. Easements adjacent to street rights
of way shall be at least ten feet (10') wide. Sanitary easements otherwise
located shall have a minimum width of twenty feet (20').
         e.   Sanitary sewers shall not be located closer than twenty feet
(20') from any building or structure.
         f.   Any sewer within one hundred feet (100') of a water supply well
or a below ground water storage reservoir shall be constructed of water main
quality pressure pipe.
      3.   Public Sewer Mains (Standard Gravity Systems):
         a.   Sewer flow capacity shall be calculated by the Manning formula
using n = 0.013. Minimum allowable velocity with pipe full or half full shall
be two feet (2') per second (fps). Maximum velocity shall be ten (10) fps.
         b.   The minimum sewer size shall be eight inches (8") in diameter.
         c.   The minimum slope for eight inch (8") sewers shall be 0.4
percent. Where possible, a slope greater than minimum shall be provided for
sewers with limited use to minimize blockages due to low flow.
         d.   The maximum manhole spacing shall be four hundred feet (400').
         e.   The minimum sewer depth shall typically be eight feet (8') to
avoid utility conflicts. The minimum depth in a special case circumstance shall
be five feet (5').
      4.   Building Services:
         a.   Minimum gravity service sewer size shall be four inches (4") in
diameter. The minimum slope shall be one percent (1%).
         b.   Two (2) service sewers may be placed in the same trench when they
serve adjacent attached units.
         c.   A common service sewer may be permitted for multi-family housing
or multi-unit nonresidential buildings where there is an entity (such as an
owners' association) responsible for the maintenance of the common services.
         d.   Service risers shall be provided where the sewer depth exceeds
twelve feet (12').
      5.   Additional Requirements: Sanitary sewer system material, equipment,
and construction requirements shall be as indicated in the specifications
included in this chapter. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 5, chapter 2 of this code.
8-6-3-7: WATER SYSTEMS 1 :
   A.   General Potable Water Supply Requirements: All developments and
occupied facilities shall be properly connected to an approved and functioning
public/community water system where such a system is available. Where a public/
community water system is not available, developments shall provide and
occupied facilities shall be connected to such a system when required by the
county, as discussed in subsections C1a and C1b of this section. The use of
individual private wells shall be restricted and shall be dependent on local
groundwater conditions, the type of sewage disposal system used, and the known
or anticipated extent/density of development within the area.
   B.   Connection To Existing System:
      1.   Depending on the number of dwelling units, residential developments
shall be connected to an existing water supply system if service is available
within the following distances from the nearest property to the water system:
TABLE 8-6-3-7A
WATER SYSTEM DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
 
Development Size Distance
   1 unit         200 feet
   2 units        400 feet
   3 units        600 feet
   4 units        800 feet
   5 - 15 unit   1,000 feet
 
      2.   When a residential development with more than fifteen (15) units is
located within one mile of an existing water system, adequate justification
shall be provided as to why it shall not have a connection to the existing
water supply system. For residential developments with more than fifteen (15)
units and located more than one mile from an existing system, water supply
system strategy shall be determined on a case by case basis taking into
consideration density of the development, costs, groundwater availability and
quality, and the concerns and criteria noted in subsections C1a, C1b, C1c and
C2 of this section.
      3.   Small scale nonresidential developments may be required to be
connected to an existing water supply system if service is available within one
thousand feet (1,000'). Water supply requirements for large scale
nonresidential developments within or more than one mile from an existing
system shall be as indicated in subsection B2 of this section. Judgments and
decisions regarding nonresidential factors such as size, water use, and fire
protection needs shall be as reasonably determined by the county on an
individual basis taking into account the specific characteristics of the
development.
   C.   Type Of System:
      1.   Public Or Community Water System:
         a.   When warranted, a complete public/community water system,
including supply well, storage and treatment facilities, and distribution mains
may be requested by the county in order to:
            (1)   Ensure the availability of potable water meeting the quality
standards established by the Illinois EPA.
            (2)   Enable proper monitoring and testing of potable water
supplies for public health purposes.
            (3)   Provide an adequate level of fire protection.
         b.   The following conditions shall be evaluated in determining the
necessity of a public/community water supply system in lieu of private
individual wells:
            (1)   Location of the development with regard to extraterritorial
limits of municipalities with public water systems.
            (2)   Availability and quality of existing groundwater supply
sources.
            (3)   Development density and type with regard to the level of fire
protection that should be provided.
            (4)   The possibility of future additional development that could
negatively impact private individual well water supply sources.
         c.   Residential and nonresidential developments and subdivisions that
will have nine (9) or more lots, fifteen (15) or more service connections, or
twenty five (25) or more residents or occupants shall be required to provide a
community water system. Individual wells may be allowed through variance,
depending on the conditions indicated in subsection A of this section. A
variance shall only be granted to parcels of record as of August 9, 1994,
whether the parcel of record is subdivided or developed as a whole or in
phases.
         d.   If a public/community water system is required, an agreement
between the county and the applicant (developer) may be established (at the
county's option) to enable equitable recovery of system and operating costs if
other developments connect to the system.
         e.   If a public water supply system is to be provided to the area
within a five (5) year period as indicated in a water master plan, official
map, or other official document, the county may require installation of a
capped system or dry lines (mains only), or the county may require a payment in
lieu of the improvement.
      2.   Private Water Supply 2 : If a water supply system is not available
and a new community water system is not warranted or feasible, residential
housing units and nonresidential facilities shall be served by individual
private wells. The use, design, and installation of such wells shall conform to
county health department requirements and will require a permit issued by said
department.
      3.   Approval Of Water Supply Required: All proposals for new community
water supplies, or extensions to existing water systems, or the installation of
dry lines, or use of wells and other water sources shall be subject to the
approval of the county.
   D.   System Capacity:
      1.   The water supply system shall be adequate to handle anticipated
flows based on complete development of the water system service area.
      2.   The demand rates for all uses shall be considered in computing total
system demand. Where fire protection is provided, the system shall be capable
of providing the required fire demand plus the required domestic demand.
      3.   Daily residential demand shall be computed in accordance with the
population served. The water use per person for such calculations shall be one
hundred (100) gpd for single-family detached units and eighty (80) gpd for
other housing types.
      4.   Nonresidential demand shall be computed from water use data and
standards determined to be acceptable to both the county and the Illinois EPA.
      5.   Residential water systems shall be designed to carry peak hour flows
and be capable of delivering the following peak hour demands with a minimum
water main pressure of thirty five (35) psi:
TABLE 8-6-3-7B
WATER SYSTEM DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
Total Residential Units Served Peak Hour Rates (GPM Per Unit)
Total Residential Units Served Peak Hour Rates (GPM Per Unit)
   5                        8
   10                       5
   50                       3
   100                      2
   250                      1.3
   500                      0.8
   700                      0.7
   1,000 or more            0.6
 
      6.   Fire protection facilities (hydrants, storage tanks, and large
capacity pumps) shall be furnished as part of a community water supply system
whenever feasible. Minimum fire flows shall be based on recommendations by the
American Insurance Association and the National Board Of Fire Underwriters.
Detailed fire protection requirements shall be as specified by the local fire
department or fire protection district.
      7.   For developments of one- and two-family dwellings, not exceeding two
(2) stories in height, the following fire flows may be used:
TABLE 8-6-3-7C
WATER SYSTEM FIRE FLOW REQUIREMENTS
 
Distance Between Buildings 1 Required Fire Flow
Over 100 feet                500 gpm
21 - 100 feet                750 - 1,000 gpm
11 - 20 feet                 1,000 - 1,500 gpm
10 feet or less              1,500 - 2,000 gpm
 
Note:
   1.    For contiguous buildings (attached dwelling units of 2 or more two-
family units and/or multi-family units), a minimum of 2,500 gpm may be used.
      8.   When standard fire protection facilities are not feasible for a
small community water system and in rural type developments not served by a
community water system, supplementary fire protection shall be provided by
means of special manhole structures or suitable riser pipes connected to
available water sources such as ponds or lakes. Said facilities are intended to
enable fire vehicle storage tanks to be refilled by drawing water from the
water source. These facilities shall be installed adjacent to street pavements
and connected to water sources with pipes set three (3) to five feet (5') below
normal water level.
   E.   System Design And Layout:
      1.   General Design And Layout Requirements:
         a.   Water supply system criteria and standards shall be in accordance
with accepted engineering practices regarding such systems. The county shall
have the prerogative to make use of those practices that it feels represent the
best available information and procedures.
         b.   The design and construction of water distribution systems; water
supply wells; and treatment, storage, and pumping facilities shall comply with
all applicable American Waterworks Association (AWWA) standards and all
Illinois EPA regulations and permit requirements.
      2.   Water Main Location:
         a.   Water mains shall typically be located within street rights of
way or in utility easements adjacent to street rights of way.
         b.   Water mains may be located within open space areas or along rear
or side lot lines if necessary to create looped main systems and if adequate
maintenance access is provided to valves.
         c.   All water mains not located within street rights of way shall be
placed within defined utility easements. The minimum width of such easements
shall be ten feet (10').
         d.   Water mains shall be located no closer than twenty feet (20')
from any building or structure.
      3.   Distribution Mains:
         a.   The minimum pipe size shall be eight inches (8") in diameter,
except in specific instances where a six inch (6") diameter is warranted and is
approved by the county.
         b.   Looped mains shall typically be required, but nonlooped mains for
short cul-de-sacs, small cluster housing areas, and similar situations will be
considered on an individual basis.
      4.   Valves:
         a.   Water main valves shall be located so that no more than three (3)
of them are required to be shut off to isolate any section of main. In no event
shall more than five (5) valves have to be shut off to isolate a section upon
connection of a new main with an existing main.
         b.   The maximum valve spacing shall be one thousand feet (1,000').
         c.   Distribution main valves shall be placed in concrete vaults.
Valves on large size building service lines and fire protection service lines
may have cast iron valve boxes.
      5.   Fire Hydrants:
         a.   Hydrants shall be located and spaced such that two hundred fifty
foot (250') radius circles centered on each hydrant cover at least seventy six
percent (76%) of each individual building on a site. All points of a building
shall be within a three hundred fifty foot (350') radius of one or more
hydrants. Where, in the opinion of the county, a subject building is not
accessible from a specific hydrant, that hydrant shall not be used to determine
the adequacy of coverage of the building.
         b.   Where water mains are installed in an area prior to knowing the
intended layout of the buildings intended to be served, hydrants shall be
provided at intervals not exceeding four hundred fifty feet (450').
         c.   Hydrants need not be provided in open space areas or along
roadways where there are no buildings existing or planned within a distance of
three hundred feet (300'), or where the buildings are not accessible from the
water main location. But the county has the option of requiring a reasonable
number of hydrants for specific uses other than protecting project structures.
         d.   One hydrant may be installed on a nonlooped six inch (6") main
extension not exceeding three hundred feet (300') in length, provided there are
no building fire protection services connected to the extension.
         e.   Hydrant locations shall be subject to review by the local fire
protection authority.
      6.   Building Services:
         a.   A separate water service connection for each unit shall be
utilized for detached housing and nonresidential buildings where maintenance is
the responsibility of the individual property owner.
         b.   Common water service connections may be allowed for multi- family
housing and multi-unit nonresidential buildings where there is an entity (such
as an owners' association) responsible for the maintenance of the common water
services. Where common services are utilized, individual water shutoffs shall
be provided for each unit.
         c.   The minimum size service for an individual dwelling unit shall be
a one inch (1") line with a three-fourths inch (3/4") meter.
         d.   Services for multi-unit buildings shall be sized for the number
of units served and to provide fire protection, if required.
         e.   Two (2) service lines may be placed in the same trench when they
serve adjacent attached dwelling units.
         f.   Water services and sanitary services may be placed in the same
trench, provided that the water service is placed on an earth bench at least
eighteen inches (18") above the top of the sanitary service pipe.
      7.   Additional Requirements: Water distribution system material,
equipment, and construction requirements shall be as indicated in the
specifications included in this chapter. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 5, chapter 3 of this code.
2 1. See also title 5, chapter 3 of this code.
8-6-3-8: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   Location Of Utility Lines: All utility distribution lines for electric,
gas, and telephone services within and adjacent to subdivisions shall be placed
underground within defined easements or within dedicated rights of way, as
described in section
8-6-3-3, "Utility Lines And Mains", of this chapter.
   B.   Overhead Lines: Overhead electric and telephone lines will be permitted
only in special circumstances when specifically approved by the county board.
   C.   Approval From Street Or Highway Authority: Placement and construction
of electric, gas, and telephone utility lines and structures within street and
highway rights of way shall be subject to the approval of the appropriate
street or highway authority.
   D.   Avoidance Of Conflicts With Roads Or Other Utilities: Underground
electric, gas, and telephone lines shall be located and installed so as to
avoid conflicts with and prevent damage to other underground utilities, such as
sewers and water mains. Aboveground structures, such as transformers, shall be
located so as not to be roadway traffic hazards or obstruct overland drainage.
   E.   Compliance With State Regulations: Installation of electric, gas, and
telephone utilities shall be in compliance with applicable orders, rules, and
regulations of the Illinois commerce commission. The developer shall be
responsible for compliance with rules and regulations of all public utility
companies that will service the development. Utility company rules and
regulations shall be those filed with the Illinois commerce commission and in
effect with regard to the utility service to be provided. The developer shall
also be responsible for providing the county engineer with all public utility
location plans for review and record purposes.
   F.   Cable Television And Other Communications Services: Installation
requirements for cable television or other types of communication or
information lines and facilities shall be in accordance with those indicated
for electric, gas, and telephone utilities. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-6-3-9: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Utility And Drainage Easements:
      1.   Easements for utility and drainage purposes shall be provided along
the rear and side lot lines of all lots within a subdivision and along the rear
and side property lines of individual development sites, except where the
county's review engineer determines such easements are unnecessary. Easements
containing or intended to contain sewer, water main, electric, natural gas, or
telephone utilities shall be not less than twenty feet (20') wide. Easements
for overland drainage only shall be not less than ten feet (10') wide. Such
easements shall be centered on the lot or property lines except where site
conditions warrant offsetting the easement.
      2.   Utility and drainage easements shall be provided along front and
side lot and property lines adjacent to street rights of way where required.
      3.   Utility easements shall be in substantial conformance to the
requirements of the utility companies that service the area. The developer
shall furnish evidence that easement layouts and provisions have been reviewed
by all of the individual companies or organizations responsible for furnishing
the services involved. Conflicts shall be resolved prior to county approval of
the final subdivision plat or development plan.
      4.   Where a property or subdivision is traversed by a watercourse,
drainageway, channel or stream, or other body of water, appropriate easements
shall be provided to accommodate observed, computed, or anticipated stormwater
drainage through and from the site. The width or extent of the easement shall
conform substantially with the base flood elevation or estimated high water
level of the watercourse and shall allow access for construction and
maintenance equipment.
      5.   Storm detention basins and other types of flood control facilities
shall be provided with permanent easements reserving the use of such areas for
drainage and flood control purposes. The limits of these easements shall extend
sufficiently beyond the planned high water level to allow access for
construction and maintenance equipment. Where such facilities are not adjacent
to public rights of way, additional easements, not less than twenty feet (20')
wide, shall be provided allowing personnel, vehicle, and equipment access from
the public right of way to perform construction or maintenance work on the
facilities.
   B.   Sidewalk And Bike Path Easements: Easements for sidewalks or bike paths
shall be provided along street rights of way or along lot or property lines in
accordance with the approved development plan. Such easements shall be not less
than ten feet (10') wide when located adjacent to a street right of way and not
less than twenty feet (20') wide when located elsewhere.
   C.   Construction Vehicle Turnaround Easements: Temporary vehicle turnaround
easements shall be provided at the ends of streets planned to be extended in
the future. The dimensions of such easements shall be as necessary to
accommodate a circular or "T" shaped turnaround, as required by the county's
review engineer. Upon completion of the future public street extension, the
temporary turnaround easement shall be considered automatically vacated for
such use.
   D.   Clear Sight Distance Easements: Easements to provide clear sight
distance shall be provided at street intersections. Such easements shall be in
accordance with subsection
8-6-3-4J, "Sight Distance", of this chapter.
   E.   No Access Strip Easements: Easements defined as no access strip
easements shall be provided along lot and property lines abutting streets, upon
which no vehicle driveway will be allowed. Such easements shall be at least
fifteen feet (15') wide.
   F.   Screen Planting Easements: Where landscape buffers or screens are
required in accordance with this chapter, screen planting easements may be
required by the county to ensure the permanent use of such areas for landscape
buffer/screen purposes.
   G.   Alterations Or Damages To Easements: In the event that areas or
facilities within designated easements are altered, damaged, or destroyed so as
to impede or prevent the uses for which they were intended or change the
conditions or requirements shown on the development site improvement plans, the
county will have cause to have such alterations or damages corrected at the
expense of the party or parties causing such alterations or damages. (Ord. 10-
001, 1-12-2010)
8-6-4: GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
Improvement guarantees shall be provided to ensure the proper installation and
maintenance of required street, utility, drainage, and other improvements. The
nature and duration of the guarantee shall be structured to achieve this goal
without adding unnecessary costs to the developer.
   A.   Guarantees Required: Before the recording of final subdivision plats or
as a condition of final site plan approval, the county board shall require the
following guarantees:
      1.   The furnishing of a performance guarantee in the amount of one
hundred twenty percent (120%) of the cost of installation at the improvements.
      2.   Provision for a maintenance guarantee for a period of eighteen (18)
months after final acceptance of an improvement in the amount of fifteen
percent (15%) of the cost of the improvement.
      3.   In the event that other governmental agencies will own the
improvements to be installed and the improvements are covered by a performance
or maintenance guarantee to these other entities, no performance or maintenance
guarantee, as the case may be, shall be required by the county for such
improvements.
   B.   Effect Of Guarantee: The maximum time allowed for installation of the
improvements for which the performance guarantee has been provided shall be two
(2) years from the date of approval of the final subdivision plat or final
development project. This time period may be extended by the county board by
resolution.
   C.   Notice Of Completed Improvements, Inspections, And Approval: Upon
substantial completion of all required improvements, the developer shall notify
the county's review engineer and highway engineer in writing, by certified
mail. This notice shall include identifications, quantities, and installation
costs of the subject improvements and a statement by the developer's engineer
that the improvements have been completed in accordance with this chapter.
      1.   The county's review engineer and highway engineer shall inspect all
improvements of which such notice has been given and advise the developer of
any outstanding issues.
      2.   If there are no outstanding issues, the county's review engineer and
highway engineer shall notify, in writing, the township road commissioner in
whose township the subdivision roads lie that the roadway improvements meet the
regulations of this chapter.
      3.   The county's review engineer and highway engineer shall request the
township road commissioner inspect the road improvements and, if acceptable,
send a letter to the county's review engineer and highway engineer stating that
the improvements are acceptable and that the township will start to maintain
the roads.
   D.   Alteration Of Guarantee: No performance or maintenance guarantee shall
be reduced, terminated or otherwise altered without written authorization of
the county. At time of final plat or development project approval, the obligor/
surety shall submit a letter or other document verifying this requirement.
   E.   Mechanisms Of Providing Guarantees: Performance and maintenance
guarantees shall be provided before the official plat recording by one or more
of the following means. The form and details of the guarantees to be provided
shall be as required by the county board and approved by the state's attorney.
      1.   Surety Bond: The applicant shall obtain a security bond from a
surety bonding company authorized to do business in Illinois.
      2.   Letter Of Credit: The applicant shall provide an irrevocable letter
of credit from a bank or other reputable institution.
      3.   Escrow Account: The applicant shall deposit cash, or other
instruments readily convertible into cash at face value, either with the county
or in escrow with a bank.
      4.   Subdivision Improvement Agreement: The applicant shall provide as a
guarantee a subdivision improvement agreement between the applicant, lender,
and county. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
   F.   Maintenance Guarantee: A maintenance guarantee shall be provided by the
developer upon the final completion of the public improvements of the
subdivision. The maintenance guarantee shall be a minimum of two (2) years and
shall guarantee against and secure against the correction of any damage to
public improvements by reason of settling of the ground, base or foundation
thereof. The maintenance guarantee shall also provide funds for repairs in the
event that there are defects of the materials that were used for the
construction of the improvements. The maintenance guarantee shall be provided
in the same manner as the improvement guarantees established in subsection E of
this section. (Ord. 2012-013, 4-10-2012)
8-6-5: PROJECT COMPLETION AND TURNOVER:
Upon completion of the required improvements for a subdivision or other land
development project, the developer shall submit to the county the following
indicated items. Submittal and acceptance of these items shall be required for
the county to authorize termination of the improvement guarantees covering the
subject subdivision or development.
   A.   Record Drawings: An electronic version and a set of reproducible mylar
drawings of the originally approved engineering plans marked to indicate all
significant changes in location, elevation, size, or material of the
improvements shown thereon. The drawings shall be identified as "record
drawing", and dated and shall, at a minimum, contain the following information:
      1.   Realignments or relocations of streets or other pavements,
streetlights, storm drainage systems, flood control facilities, and sanitary
and water utility systems, including all structures such as manholes, drainage
inlets, valve vaults, and fire hydrants.
      2.   Actual rim and invert elevations of all sanitary manholes and
drainage structures and measured lengths of sewers between such structures.
      3.   Dimensioned locations of sanitary service stubs and water service
valves. Two (2) tie dimensions (at approximately right angles) to each stub and
valve are required. Typically, one shall be from edge of street pavement and
the other from a staked property corner or a visible structure such as a
manhole or fire hydrant.
      4.   All original design data and information, as well as "as
constructed" elevations, dimensions, etc.
      5.   As constructed topography and storage volumes of stormwater
detention/retention facilities. For clarity, this information shall be provided
on separate drawings to be submitted with the updated original plans. These
drawings shall also indicate original design storage volumes and control
elevations and contain a statement from the developer's engineer regarding
conformance of the as constructed facilities to the originally approved plans.
   B.   Statements:
      1.   Written notification and information from the developer in
accordance with subsection
8-6-4C, "Notice Of Completed Improvements, Inspections, And Approval", of this
chapter.
      2.   A written statement from the developer's engineer indicating the
specific improvements that have been completed and a professional opinion
regarding their installation in conformance with the approved plans,
specifications, and this chapter.
      3.   A written statement from the developer's surveyor that all property
corners, lot corners, and other boundary points indicated on the subject survey
or subdivision plat were inspected upon completion of the site improvements,
that missing pipes or other required forms of monumentation were reset and that
all of the required boundary point markers for the subject development were in
place at the time of the statement. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-6-6: COST SHARING OF OFF TRACT IMPROVEMENTS:
As a condition of final subdivision or development plan approval, the county
board may require an applicant to pay a pro rata share of the cost of
reasonable and necessary roadway improvements, water, sewerage, and drainage
facilities, and other improvements, including land and easements, located off
tract of the property limits of the subdivision or development, but
necessitated or required by the development. Necessary improvements are those
clearly and substantially related to the subject development. The county board
shall provide in its resolution of approval the basis of the required
improvements. The capacity and design of proposed improvements shall be based
upon the circulation plan element and utility service plan element of the
approved overall plan. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
CHAPTER 7
SCHOOL SITE DEDICATION AND SCHOOL FACILITIES FEES
SECTION:
8-7-1: School Site Dedication Land Or Cash
8-7-1-1: Findings And Purpose
8-7-1-2: Criteria For Requiring School Site Dedication
8-7-1-3: Criteria For Requiring Contribution In Lieu Of School Site
8-7-1-4: Criteria For Requiring Land Dedication And Fee
8-7-1-5: Collection And Disposition Of Fee
8-7-1-6: Refund Of Fee
8-7-1-7: Fair Market Value
8-7-1-8: Conveyance Of Land
8-7-1-9: Density Formula
8-7-1-10: Site Condition
8-7-2: School Facilities Fees
8-7-2-1: General
8-7-2-2: Annual Adjustments
8-7-2-3: Time Of Payment Of School Facilities Fees
8-7-2-4: Other Taxes And Fees
8-7-2-5: Owner's Recorded Declaration
8-7-1: SCHOOL SITE DEDICATION LAND OR CASH:
8-7-1-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
In recent years, the county has experienced a steadily increasing population
growth due primarily to the residential subdivision, planned unit development
and/or special use permit of vacant land within the county. Planning studies
indicate accelerated growth during the next ten (10) years resulting in the
disappearance of available land and the marked increase in land value. The
county is dedicated to the concept that healthful, productive community life
depends in part on the availability of adequate school facilities. It has been
found and determined that the location of school sites to serve the immediate
and future needs of adults and children of each new subdivision, planned unit
development and/or special use permit is just as essential to proper land
development as are streets, water, sewers and sidewalks. To this end, the
county has determined that the dedication of land for school sites or cash
contributions in lieu of actual dedication (where the latter is deemed
impractical) or a combination of both, shall prevail upon all new final plats
of residential subdivisions, planned unit developments and/or special use
permits. The impact upon schools is likewise equally affected by construction
of new dwellings that are not part of a platted subdivision, and accordingly,
cash contributions should be made with regard to such construction as well.
Therefore, in the public interest, convenience, health, welfare and safety, the
establishment of school sites and facilities are required for each final plat
of a residential subdivision and/or special use permit. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-7-1-2: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING SCHOOL SITE DEDICATION:
The ultimate number of students to be generated by a subdivision, planned unit
development and/or special use permit shall bear directly upon the amount of
land required to be dedicated for school sites. The land dedication requirement
shall be determined by obtaining the ratio of:
   A.   Estimated children to be served in each school classification (this
number is determined by applying the estimated ultimate population per dwelling
unit table [section
8-7-1-9,
table 8-7-1-9A, of this chapter] to the number of respective units in the
development) over the;
   B.   Actual average number of students to be served in each such school
classification as stated herein, and then applying such ratio to the;
   C.   Said number of acres for a school site of each such classification as
stated herein. The product thereof shall be the acres of land deemed needed to
have sufficient land for school sites to serve the estimated increased children
in each such school classification. For purposes of this computation, it is
presumed that each single-family home will have three (3) bedrooms. For other
dwelling units, such as townhouses and apartments, it is presumed that each
unit will have two (2) bedrooms.
Example: Development A is composed of 100 single-family units:
 
Estimated children by school
classification                     x Actual acreage by school = Land donation
Actual school population by school   classification
classification
 
 
Classification By Grades County Average Students Per County Acreage Per School
                         School Classification       Classification
Elementary               850 students                20 acres
Middle                   500 students                30 acres
High                     1,000 students              80 acres
 
Elementary:   100 x 0.369 x 20 = 0.8682 acres
                  850
              
Middle:       100 x 0.173 x 30 = 1.038 acres
                  500
              
High school:  100 x 0.184 x 80 = 1.472 acres
             1,000
              
Total acreage = 3.378
 
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-7-1-3: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING CONTRIBUTION IN LIEU OF SCHOOL SITE:
Where available land is inappropriate for school sites, as determined by local
school officials, the county shall require a cash contribution in lieu of land
dedication by the subdivider or unit developer. The county shall furthermore
require a cash contribution for all residential dwellings which are constructed
not part of a platted subdivision. For all computations, one acre is the
maximum home site. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-7-1-4: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING LAND DEDICATION AND FEE:
There will be situations in subdivisions or planned unit developments when a
combination of land dedication and a contribution in lieu of land are both
necessary. These occasions will arise when:
   A.   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the location
for a school site. That portion of the land within the subdivision falling
within the school location shall be dedicated as a site as stated earlier, and
a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required for any additional land
that would have been required to be dedicated.
   B.   A major part of the school site has already been acquired and only a
small portion of land is needed from the development to complete the site. The
remaining portions shall be required by dedication, and a cash contribution in
lieu thereof shall be required. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-7-1-5: COLLECTION AND DISPOSITION OF FEE:
   A.   Collection Of Fee:
      1.   The total cash contribution to be required shall be determined prior
to the approval of the final plat and paid to the county designee prior to
issuance of a building permit. Receipt of payment shall be proof of said
payment.
      2.   In a platted subdivision, when a building permit for a lot is
requested three (3) years or more from the date of final plat approval,
determination of a new current cash contribution shall be required. The new
current cash contribution shall be determined and shall be paid to the county
designee prior to the issuance of a building permit.
      3.   The cash contribution required for a residential unit not part of a
platted subdivision shall be determined in the same manner as for other
residential developments and shall be determined and collected prior to the
issuance of a building permit.
      4.   This subsection does not apply to reconstruction.
   B.   Disposition Of Fee: The cash contribution in lieu of school sites shall
be held in trust by the county or other public body designated by the county.
Said funds shall be used solely for the acquisition of land for a school site
to serve the immediate or future needs of children from that subdivision or
development, or for the improvement to any existing school site or buildings
which already serve or will serve such need. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-7-1-6: REFUND OF FEE:
If any portion of a cash contribution in lieu of school sites is not expended
for the purposes set forth herein within ten (10) years from the date of
receipt, it shall be refunded with accrued interest to the lot owner or owners
of those lots for which the contribution was made, which owner or owners are
determined at the time the date of refund is established. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-7-1-7: FAIR MARKET VALUE:
The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be based on the fair market value
of the acres of land in the area improved that otherwise would have been
dedicated as school sites. An "improved acre" in a planned unit development is
defined as a tract of land improved with streets, curbs, water, storm sewer,
sanitary sewer, electrical, natural gas and telephone service. Fair market
value for land not part of a planned unit development shall be calculated on
the market value of an unimproved acre. Because of the diversity of lands
within the county, a single determination of fair market value or market value
of an unimproved acre is not possible. The fair market value or market value of
an unimproved acre for any particular parcel shall be determined by the
supervisor of assessment office of the county prior to plat approval. This
valuation determined by the supervisor of assessments shall be used unless any
subdivider, developer, or public body files a written objection thereto. In the
event of any such objection, the subdivider, developer, or public body shall
submit an appraisal showing the fair market value of such improved land or
market value of an unimproved acre in the area of development or other
evidence. Final determination of said fair market value per acre of such
improved land or market value of an unimproved acre shall be made by the county
board based on such information submitted by the subdivider or developer and
from other sources as may be submitted to the county board by affected parties.
The value of an unimproved acre shall be estimated with those improvements
necessary to make the land habitable. Dual districts will be treated as they
are affected by the impact of the subdivision or development within their
territories. Elementary and middle school contributions shall go to the
elementary district, and high school contributions shall go to the high school
district. Two-thirds (2/3) of the special contribution shall go to the
elementary district, and one-third (1/3) shall go to the high school district.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-7-1-8: CONVEYANCE OF LAND:
The subdivider or developer shall convey to the respective school district the
lands required under this section
8-7-1 within ninety (90) days after request by the district. (Ord. 10-001, 1-
12-2010)
8-7-1-9: DENSITY FORMULA:
   A.   
Table 8-7-1-9A, "Estimated Ultimate Population Per Dwelling Unit", of this
section is generally indicative of current and short range projected trends in
family size for new construction and shall be used in calculating the amount of
required dedication of acres of land or the cash contributions in lieu thereof,
unless a written objection thereto is filed by the subdivider or developer.
   B.   In the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to the
table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit, as referenced in
subsection A of this section, said subdivider or developer shall submit his own
demographic study showing the estimated additional population to be generated
from the subdivision or planned unit development, and in that event, final
determination of the density formula to be used in such calculations shall be
made by the county board, based upon such demographic information submitted by
the subdivider or developer and from other sources which may be submitted to
the county board by the school district or others. It is recognized that
population density, age distribution and local conditions change over the
years, and the specific formula components for the dedication of land, or the
payment of fees in lieu thereof, as stated herein, are subject to periodic
review and amendment upon verification of current data by the county board or
its designee.
TABLE 8-7-1-9A
ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
Type                                    Junior High                                              Adults Total
Of   Preschool   Elementary Grades K–5Grades 6–8  Total Grades K–8High School Grades 9–12       Per
Unit 0–4 Years 5–10 Years           11–13 Years 5–13 Years      14–17 Years            18     Dwelling
                                                                                                 Years+ Unit
                                                  Junior High                                              Adults Total
Type Of Unit   Preschool   Elementary Grades K–5Grades 6–8  Total Grades K–8High School Grades 9–12       Per
               0–4 Years 5–10 Years           11–13 Years 5–13 Years      14–17 Years            18     Dwelling
                                                                                                           Years+ Unit
Detached                                                                                                     
single-family:
    2 bedro0.113       0.136                  0.048         0.184             0.02                     1.7    2.017
    3 bedro0.292       0.369                  0.173         0.542             0.184                    1.881  2.899
    4 bedro0.418       0.53                   0.298         0.828             0.36                     2.158  3.764
    5 bedro0.283       0.345                  0.248         0.593             0.3                      2.594  3.77
Attached                                                                                                     
single-family:
    1 bedro0m          0                      0             0                 0                        1.193  1.193
    2 bedro0.064       0.088                  0.048         0.136             0.038                    1.752  1.99
    3 bedro0.212       0.234                  0.058         0.292             0.059                    1.829  2.392
    4 bedro0.323       0.322                  0.154         0.476             0.173                    2.173  3.145
Apartments:                                                                                                  
    Efficie0cy         0                      0             0                 0                        1.294  1.294
    1 bedro0m          0.002                  0.001         0.003             0.001                    1.754  1.758
    2 bedro0.047       0.086                  0.042         0.128             0.046                    1.693  1.914
    3 bedro0.052       0.234                  0.123         0.357             0.118                    2.526  3.053
 
Note: There are only 3 significant categories provided in this table. Because
of the similarity of yields of all types of attached single-family dwelling
units, only 1 category is provided. The same is true with apartments; thus,
only 1 category. Because of the relatively short history of some newer types of
detached and attached single-family units, individual evaluations may be
necessary.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-7-1-10: SITE CONDITION:
   A.   Condition Of Site: The slope, topography and geology of the dedicated
site as well as its surroundings must be suitable for its intended purposes.
Grading and seeding on sites to be dedicated for school uses shall be performed
according to plans and specifications provided by the school district.
   B.   Improved Sites: All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for
full service of electrical, water, sewer and streets (including enclosed
drainage and curb and gutter) as applicable to the location of the site, or
acceptable provision made therefor. Such improvements shall conform to plans
provided by the school district. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-7-2: SCHOOL FACILITIES FEES:
The county of Grundy requires that school facilities fees shall be applied to
all new final plats of residential subdivisions, planned unit developments and/
or special use permits. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-7-2-1: GENERAL:
A final plat of subdivision, PUD, or special use permit by the county shall
require the timely payment in full of the school facilities fees as set forth
below: In tables 8-7-2-1A, "Unit School District (K – 12)"; 8-7-2-1B:
"Elementary School District (K – 8)"; and 8-7-2-1C, "High School District (9 –
12)", of this section.
For purposes of this section
8-7-2, the school facilities fees shall only be utilized for new school
buildings, building additions and improvements, school site improvements and
related infrastructure (hereinafter "school facilities"). The school facilities
fee is in addition to the land cash ordinance currently in effect.
   A.   Unit School Districts: The school facilities fee shall be paid by the
owner in accordance with
table 8-7-2-1A of this section, for a unit school district consisting of
kindergarten through twelfth grade:
TABLE 8-7-2-1A
UNIT SCHOOL DISTRICT (K – 12)
Number Of Bedrooms 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Number Of   2008      2009      2010      2011      2012      2013      2014
Bedrooms
Detached
single-
family                                                             
dwelling
units:
    4+  $5,220.00 $5,428.80 $5,645.95 $5,871.79 $6,106.66 $6,350.93 $6,604.97
bedroom
    3   4,233.00  4,402.32  4,578.41  4,761.55  4,952.01  5,150.09  5,356.10
bedroom
    2   796.00    827.84    860.95    895.39    931.21    968.46    1,007.19
bedroom
Attached
single-
family                                                             
dwelling
units:
    4+  2,890.00  3,005.60  3,125.82  3,250.86  3,380.89  3,516.13  3,656.77
bedroom
    3   1,575.00  1,638.00  1,703.52  1,771.66  1,842.53  1,916.23  1,992.88
bedroom
    2   943.00    980.72    1,019.95  1,060.75  1,103.18  1,147.30  1,193.20
bedroom
Apartments:                                                        
    3+  2,160.00  2,246.40  2,336.26  2,429.71  2,526.89  2,627.97  2,733.09
bedroom
    2   761.00    791.44    823.10    856.02    890.26    925.87    962.91
bedroom
    1   18.00     18.72     19.47     20.25     21.06     21.90     22.78
bedroom
 
   B.   Elementary School Districts: The school facilities fee shall be paid by
the owner in accordance with
table 8-7-2-1B, "Elementary School District (K – 8)", of this section, for an
elementary school district consisting of kindergarten through eighth grade:
TABLE 8-7-2-1B
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT (K – 8)
Number Of Bedrooms 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Number Of   2008      2009      2010      2011      2012      2013      2014
Bedrooms
Detached
single-
family                                                             
dwelling
units:
    4+  $3,910.00 $4,066.40 $4,229.06 $4,398.22 $4,574.15 $4,757.11 $4,947.40
bedroom
    3   2,917.00  3,033.68  3,155.03  3,281.23  3,412.48  3,548.98  3,690.94
bedroom
    2   679.00    706.16    734.41    763.78    794.33    826.11    859.15
bedroom
Attached
single-
family                                                             
dwelling
units:
    4+  1,918.00  1,994.72  2,074.51  2,157.49  2,243.79  2,333.54  2,426.88
bedroom
    3   1,204.00  1,252.16  1,302.25  1,354.34  1,408.51  1,464.85  1,523.44
bedroom
    2   727.00    756.08    786.32    817.78    850.49    884.51    919.89
bedroom
Apartments:                                                        
    3+  1,481.00  1,540.24  1,601.85  1,665.92  1,732.56  1,801.86  1,873.94
bedroom
    2   515.00    535.60    557.02    579.30    602.48    626.58    651.64
bedroom
    1   12.00     12.48     12.98     13.50     14.04     14.60     15.18
bedroom
 
   C.   High School District: The school facilities fee shall be paid by the
owner in accordance with
table 8-7-2-1C, "High School District (9 – 12)", of this section, for a high
school district consisting of ninth grade through twelfth grade:
TABLE 8-7-2-1C
HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT (9 – 12)
Number Of Bedrooms 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Number Of   2008      2009      2010      2011      2012      2013      2014
Bedrooms
Detached
single-
family                                                             
dwelling
units:
    4+  $1,310.00 $1,362.40 $1,416.90 $1,473.57 $1,532.51 $1,593.82 $1,657.57
bedroom
    3   1,316.00  1,368.64  1,423.39  1,480.32  1,539.53  1,601.12  1,665.16
bedroom
    2   117.00    121.68    126.55    131.61    136.87    142.35    148.04
bedroom
Attached
single-
family                                                             
dwelling
units:
    4+  972.00    1,010.88  1,051.32  1,093.37  1,137.10  1,182.59  1,229.89
bedroom
    3   371.00    385.84    401.27    417.32    434.02    451.38    469.43
bedroom
    2   216.00    224.64    233.63    242.97    252.69    262.80    273.31
bedroom
Apartments:                                                        
    3+  679.00    706.16    734.41    763.78    794.33    826.11    859.15
bedroom
    2   246.00    255.84    266.07    276.72    287.79    299.30    311.27
bedroom
    1   6.00      6.24      6.49      6.75      7.02      7.30      7.59
bedroom
 
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-7-2-2: ANNUAL ADJUSTMENTS:
Beginning January 1, 2009, the amount of the school facilities fee shall be
annually increased by four percent (4%) per year. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-7-2-3: TIME OF PAYMENT OF SCHOOL FACILITIES FEES:
School facilities fees shall be paid in full for a particular dwelling unit
prior to the application for a permit to construct said dwelling unit. Payment
shall be made directly to the school district or districts in which the
dwelling unit is located. Evidence of payment shall be issued by the school
district or districts and shall be submitted to the Grundy County land use
department at the time of building permit application. The failure to provide
sufficient evidence of the required payments shall constitute sufficient
grounds for the denial of the application for a building permit, or for the
suspension or revocation of a building permit. In addition, the Grundy County
land use department may refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy, or may
suspend or revoke the same, if sufficient evidence of payment of applicable
school facilities fees is not presented. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-7-2-4: OTHER TAXES AND FEES:
The payment of school facilities fees shall be in addition to any other tax,
fee, charge, assessment or requirement levied or imposed in the county. (Ord.
10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-7-2-5: OWNER'S RECORDED DECLARATION:
The owner shall provide, prior to a case being considered by the Grundy County
board, a recorded copy of the declaration of covenants for the applicable
homeowners' association for the subject property, which contains substantially
the following language:
   The record owner of each lot, shall at the time of application for building
permit, pay a School Facilities Fee in accordance with the attached Exhibit
"        ". This is a private obligation running with the land at law. If said
owner does not pay said fee at the time of application for building permit, the
same shall constitute a lien on said lot. This covenant and foreclosure of said
lien is restriction placed upon this property by the Declarant (Developer) and
shall be enforceable by the developer or by the affected school district. Said
lot owner shall be responsible for all reasonable attorney's fees and costs
incurred in enforcing this covenant. This covenant may not be rescinded or
amended without consent of the affected school district(s).
Owner shall present to the county, prior to the time of action on said final
plat of subdivision, PUD and/or special use permit, at its cost, a commitment
for title insurance issued or later dated not more than five (5) days before
action by the county board, showing said covenant has been recorded and is a
valid declaration of said requirement on said property, together with the
affidavit that said covenant has not been amended, rescinded or revoked. (Ord.
10-001, 1-12-2010)
CHAPTER 8
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING; ACCESS MANAGEMENT; EXTERIOR LIGHTING
SECTION:
8-8-1: Off Street Parking
8-8-1-1: Scope
8-8-1-2: Permitted Parking And Loading Facilities
8-8-1-3: Damage To Or Destruction Of Building Or Use
8-8-1-4: Submission Of Plot Plan And Plat Of Survey
8-8-1-5: Additional Regulations For Parking Facilities
8-8-1-6: Standard Parking And Handicapped Space Standards
8-8-1-7: Number Of Off Street Parking Spaces
8-8-1-8: Additional Regulations For Loading Facilities; Number Of Spaces
8-8-1-9: Bicycle Parking
8-8-2: Access Management And Circulation
8-8-2-1: Common Access And Internal Cross Access
8-8-2-2: Number Of Access Points
8-8-3: Exterior Lighting Standards
8-8-3-1: Nonresidential Lighting Standards
8-8-3-2: Exterior Lighting For Outdoor Recreation
8-8-3-3: Public Safety And Public Nuisance
8-8-1: OFF STREET PARKING:
8-8-1-1: SCOPE:
The off street parking and off street loading provisions of this UDO shall
apply as follows:
   A.   Accessory off street parking and off street loading facilities shall be
provided as required by the regulations of this chapter for all buildings and
structures erected and all uses of land established in each district after the
effective date hereof.
   B.   When the intensity of use of any building, structure, or premises shall
be increased through the addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating
capacity, or other units of measurement for required parking and loading
facilities in the amount specified herein, additional parking and loading
facilities as required herein shall be provided for such increase in intensity
of use.
   C.   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall hereafter be
changed to a new use, parking and loading facilities shall be provided as
required for such new use. However, if the said building or structure was
erected prior to the effective date hereof, additional parking or loading
facilities are mandatory only in the amount by which the requirements for the
new use would exceed those for the existing use, if the latter were subject to
the parking and loading provisions of this UDO. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-8-1-2: PERMITTED PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES:
Nothing in this title shall be deemed to prevent the voluntary establishment of
off street parking or loading facilities to serve any existing use of land or
buildings; provided, that all regulations herein governing the location, design
and operation of such facilities are adhered to. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-8-1-3: DAMAGE TO OR DESTRUCTION OF BUILDING OR USE:
When any conforming or nonconforming building, structure, or use which is in
existence on the effective date hereof, which is restored and continued in
operation after being damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion, or
other cause, to the extent that the cost of restoration does not exceed sixty
percent (60%) of equalized assessed valuation, there may be provided only the
off street parking or loading facilities equivalent to any maintained at the
time of such damage or destruction. However, in no case shall it be necessary
to restore or maintain parking or loading facilities in excess of those
required by this title for equivalent new uses or construction. (Ord. 10-001,
1-12-2010)
8-8-1-4: SUBMISSION OF PLOT PLAN AND PLAT OF SURVEY:
   A.   Any application for a building permit, or for a zoning certificate
where no building permit is required, shall include a plot plan and an up to
date survey, drawn to scale and fully dimensioned, showing off street parking
and loading facilities to be provided in compliance with this title. The plan
shall show:
      1.   The use of the building, structure, or parcel of land;
      2.   The number of dwelling units, gross floor area, design capacity,
estimated number of employees, or other units of measurement specified herein
for determining the number of off street parking spaces or loading berths
required by this title; and
      3.   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of
all parking facilities shall be considered in relation to existing and planned
streets; to reasonable circulation for traffic within and adjacent to parking
areas; to topographical conditions and to runoff of stormwater; and to public
convenience and safety.
   B.   No building permit or zoning certificate shall be issued until the plot
plan showing all required off street parking and loading facilities is approved
by the Land Use Department. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-8-1-5: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR PARKING FACILITIES:
Off street parking facilities for motor vehicles shall be provided in
accordance with the following additional regulations:
   A.   Existing Parking Facilities: Accessory off street parking facilities in
existence on the effective date hereof and located on the same lot as the
building or use served shall not hereafter be reduced below, or, if already
less than, shall not be further reduced below the requirements for a similar
new building or use under the provisions of this title.
   B.   Use Of Parking Facilities: Access of off street parking facilities
required as accessory to uses listed herein shall be solely for the parking of
vehicles of patrons, occupants, or employees. When bus transportation is
provided for patrons, occupants, or employees of a specific establishment,
additional open or enclosed off street parking spaces for each bus to be parked
on the premises shall be provided in accordance with regulations set forth in
this chapter.
   C.   Off Site Parking Facilities: In cases where the parking facilities are
permitted on a lot other than the lot on which the structure or use served is
located, the owner of record of such lot shall be the same as the owner of
record of the lot occupied by the structure or use in which the parking
facilities are accessory. A covenant running with the land must be recorded in
the Office of the County Recorder of Deeds on the lot upon which the accessory
off street parking is located which prohibits any other use on that lot, and a
copy of the recorded covenant certified by the County Recorder of Deeds must be
deposited with the Land Use Department. The covenant shall not be released
until such time as either one of the following conditions occur:
      1.   The structure on the lot containing the principal use is removed and
the principal use terminated.
      2.   Another lot of the required size within the required distance is
properly developed and used for the required accessory off street parking in
place of and in lieu of the initial lot used for accessory off street parking
with the same requirements, covenants and conditions attaching to such
substitute accessory use lot as approved by the same authority as required for
approval of such initial lot.
   D.   Employee Parking: Parking spaces required on an employee basis shall be
based on the maximum number of employees on duty or residing on the premises,
or both, at any one time.
   E.   Handicapped Parking: All uses except single-family detached or attached
dwellings shall be required to provide off street parking spaces for
handicapped persons in accordance with the standards established by section
8-8-1-6, "Standard Parking And Handicapped Space Standards", of this chapter.
   F.   Location:
      1.   In Yards: Off street parking spaces, open to the sky, may be located
in required interior side yards and rear yards, not less than five feet (5')
from the nearest lot line, except a parking area containing four (4) or more
parking spaces shall be not less than twenty feet (20') from a residential lot
line. In the business district, the required off street parking spaces may be
located in a front yard or side yard adjoining a street, not less than five
feet (5') from a street line.
      2.   Reserved Land Area For Parking:
         a.   All business, office, or manufacturing complexes containing more
than thirty thousand (30,000) square feet of gross floor area, where the
petitioner feels he does not need the number of parking spaces required by this
title, may request a variation and, if granted, shall reserve adequate land
area consistent with the requirements of this title to provide for the required
off street parking in case of change of ownership or operations.
         b.   After the effective date hereof, required accessory off street
parking spaces shall be located on the same lot as the building or use served,
except when the Zoning Board of Appeals or the Land Use Committee recommends
and the County Board authorizes for a specific use, the location of all or part
of the required off street parking spaces on a lot that does not contain the
principal use or structure. However, there shall be compliance with the
regulations set forth in subsection C of this section. (Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-
2018)
   G.   Reduction Of Parking Or Loading Requirements By Demonstration Of Lesser
Demand:
      1.   Special Parking Study: It is understood that uses may have very
different hours of operation and peak parking demand hours. The County desires
to encourage the sharing of parking and reduced impervious surfaces. Thus,
where a reduced need for parking exists, the County may reduce the required
number of spaces. There may be a reduction in the number of required parking or
loading spaces if the applicant demonstrates that such a reduction is
appropriate based on specific parking demand forecasts for the proposed use(s),
provided that:
         a.   Such forecasts are made by a qualified traffic engineer and are
based upon a peak parking analysis of at least five (5) comparable uses; and
         b.   The comparability of the uses shall be documented in detail,
which includes their location, size, transportation system access, use
restrictions, and all other factors that were considered by the traffic
engineer that could affect parking demand.
      2.   Retainment Of Engineer: The County may retain a qualified traffic
engineer at the applicant's expense to review the parking demand forecast and
provide recommendations to the County.
      3.   Parking Study Reliance: The County may rely on the applicant's
special study or the special study conducted by the County's consultant.
      4.   Reservation Of Space For Additional Parking: The County may require
that space be reserved or land banked for additional parking upon a
determination that there is a reasonable likelihood that the nature of the use
could change in a manner that increases its parking demand.
   H.   Design And Maintenance:
      1.   Access: Each required off street parking space shall open directly
upon an aisle or driveway of width and design in accordance with standards set
forth in section
8-8-1-6, "Standard Parking And Handicapped Space Standards", of this chapter.
All off street parking facilities shall be provided with appropriate means of
vehicular access to a street or alley with location and design of intersection
of parking area access driveway and the street or alley in accordance with
regulations set forth in section
8-8-1-6, "Standard Parking And Handicapped Space Standards", of this chapter.
      2.   Computation Of Number Of Spaces: When determination of the number of
off street parking spaces required by this title results in a requirement of a
fractional space, any fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded,
while a fraction in excess of one-half (1/2) shall be counted as one parking
space.
      3.   Size: A required off street parking space shall have a width and
length, exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns, or office and
work areas, in accordance with standards set forth in section
8-8-1-6, "Standard Parking And Handicapped Space Standards", of this chapter.
Enclosed parking spaces shall have a vertical clearance of at least seven feet
(7').
      4.   Surfacing: All open off street parking areas containing more than
four (4) parking spaces shall be improved with a hard surface and a dustproof
wearing surface as approved by the Land Use Department. Also see subsection
8-6-3-5D of this title.
      5.   Screening And Landscaping: All open off street parking areas
containing more than four (4) parking spaces, located less than forty feet
(40') from the nearest property line of a lot in a residential district, shall
be effectively screened on each side adjoining or fronting on such property
line by a wall, fence, or densely planted compact hedge not less than five feet
(5') and not more than eight feet (8') in height. Also see subsection
8-6-3-5C5 of this title.
      6.   Repair And Service: No motor vehicle repair work or service of any
kind shall be permitted in off street parking areas. No gasoline or motor oil
shall be sold in conjunction with any accessory parking facilities. (Ord. 10-
001, 1-12-2010)
8-8-1-6: STANDARD PARKING AND HANDICAPPED SPACE STANDARDS:
   A.   Standard Parking Space Dimensions: Parking spaces shall have the
following dimensions: Nine feet by eighteen feet (9' x 18').
   B.   Number Of Required Disabled Parking Spaces: Disabled parking shall be
provided as set out in
table 8-8-1-6A, "Disabled Parking Requirements", of this section. Disabled
parking is included in the total number of required parking spaces.
TABLE 8-8-1-6A
DISABLED PARKING REQUIREMENTS
Number Of Required Parking                           Number Of Disabled Spaces
Spaces                     Number Of Disabled Spaces That Must Be Van
                                                     Accessible
Number Of Required Parking                           Number Of Disabled Spaces
Spaces                     Number Of Disabled Spaces That Must Be Van
                                                     Accessible
1 to 25                    1                         1
26 to 50                   2                         1
51 to 75                   3                         1
76 to 100                  4                         1
101 to 150                 5                         1
151 to 200                 6                         1
201 to 300                 7                         1
301 to 400                 8                         1
401 to 500                 9                         2
501 to 1,000               2 percent of total        1 out of 8 disabled
                                                     parking spaces, rounded up
1,001 and over             20 plus 1 for each 100    1 out of 8 disabled
                           over 1,000                parking spaces, rounded up
 
   C.   Disabled Parking Space Dimensions, Design, And Location:
      1.   Disabled parking spaces shall be nine feet by twenty feet (9' x
20'), with an access aisle on one side (may be shared with another disabled
space), as shown in
figure 8-8-1-6B, "Disabled Parking", of this section, with the following
dimensions:
         a.   Car space: Five feet by twenty feet (5' x 20').
         b.   Van space: Nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20').
      2.   The access aisle adjacent to disabled spaces shall be:
         a.   Clearly marked (the end of the aisle that is adjacent to the
driving aisle may be a squared or curved shape);
         b.   Level (1:50 maximum slope in all directions, no intrusion by
ramps);
         c.   The same length as the adjacent parking space(s) it serves; and
         d.   Connected to an accessible route to the building served by the
space.
      3.   An accessible route shall be provided from disabled spaces to the
building, which:
         a.   Shall always be provided from the accessible parking to the
accessible entrance;
         b.   Shall not be obstructed by curbs or stairs;
         c.   Shall be at least three feet (3') wide (if the accessible route
is located in front of a parking space, as shown in
figure 8-8-1-6B, "Disabled Parking", of this section, wheel stops shall be
installed to keep vehicles from reducing the effective width of the accessible
route to less than 3 feet);
         d.   Shall have a firm, stable, slip resistant surface; and
         e.   Shall have a slope of not greater than one to twelve (1:12) in
the direction of travel.
      4.   A vertical clearance of not less than eight feet two inches (8'2")
shall be provided and maintained above van accessible disabled parking spaces
and the vehicular routes that access them.
      5.   Disabled spaces shall be posted with a sign that includes the
international symbol of accessibility, mounted high enough so it can be seen
while a vehicle is parked in the space. Signs posted for van accessible spaces
shall also include the words "Van Accessible".
      6.   Accessible parking spaces shall be located on the shortest
accessible route of travel to an accessible facility entrance (where buildings
have multiple accessible entrances with adjacent parking, the accessible
parking spaces must be dispersed and located closest to the accessible
entrances), except that:
         a.   Accessible parking spaces may be clustered in one or more lots if
equivalent or greater accessibility is provided in terms of distance from the
accessible entrance, parking fees, and convenience; and
         b.   Van accessible spaces located in parking structures may be
clustered on one floor if necessary to accommodate the eight foot two inch
(8'2") minimum vertical clearance requirement.
FIGURE 8-8-1-6B
DISABLED PARKING
Car spaces
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1652.gif]
 
Van spaces
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1654.gif]
   D.   Alternative Disabled Space Dimensions: In the alternative to providing
car and van accessible spaces, the applicant may provide all required disabled
spaces with the following dimensions:
      1.   Width: Eleven feet (11').
      2.   Depth: Twenty feet (20').
      3.   Accessible route width: Five feet (5').
   E.   Parking Module Dimensions: Parking modules shall be dimensioned as
shown in
table 8-8-1-6C, "Minimum Horizontal Parking Dimensions For Standard
Automobiles", of this section. The dimensions that are set out in the table are
illustrated in
figure 8-8-1-6D, "Parking Module Standards", of this section.
TABLE 8-8-1-6C
MINIMUM HORIZONTAL PARKING DIMENSIONS FOR STANDARD AUTOMOBILES
Parking Size Angle S P C D E F J K L M
Parking       Size     Angle S    P   C   D   E   F   J   K    L   M
Parallel      Compact  0°   8'   19' 8'  8'  12' 15' 28' –  25' 5'
Parallel      Standard 0°   9'   22' 9'  9'  12' 15' 30' –  25' 5'
Angle         Compact  30°  8.5' 15' 15' 11' 15' 15' – 82'  – –
Angle         Standard 30°  9'   17' 17' 13' 15' 15' – 90'  – –
Angle         Compact  45°  8.5' 17' 17' 13' 18' 15' – 96'  – –
Angle         Standard 45°  9'   19' 19' 16' 18' 15' – 106' – –
Angle         Compact  60°  8.5' 17' 17' 15' 21' 15' – 106' – –
Angle         Standard 60°  9'   20' 20' 18' 21' 15' – 118' – –
Perpendicular Compact  90°  8.5' 15' 15' 15' 24' 24' 54' –  – –
Perpendicular Standard 90°  9'   18' 18' 18' 24' 24' 60' –  – –
 
FIGURE 8-8-1-6D
PARKING MODULE STANDARDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1656.gif]
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-8-1-7: NUMBER OF OFF STREET PARKING SPACES:
There shall be provided for each building, structure and use hereafter erected,
structurally altered or enlarged, the minimum number of accessory off street
parking spaces in accordance with the following:
PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS
Type Of Use Parking Space Required
Type Of Use                             Parking Space Required
Business, commercial and industrial      
uses:
                                        1 space for each employee, and in
                                        addition, reservoir standing spaces to
                                        accommodate automobiles awaiting
                                        entrance to the automobile laundry
Automobile laundries                    equal in number to 5 times the maximum
                                        capacity of the automobile laundry.
                                        "Maximum capacity" shall mean the
                                        greatest possible number of automobiles
                                        undergoing some phase of laundering at
                                        the same time
Automobile service stations             1 space for each island of gasoline
                                        pumps, plus 2 for each service stall
                                        4 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of
Banks and other financial institutions  gross floor area, plus 5 reservoir
                                        spaces for each drive-up window
Furniture and appliance stores, motor
vehicle sales establishment, and        1 space for each 400 square feet of
establishments for repair of household  floor area
equipment or furniture
Manufacturing, fabricating, processing, 1 space for each 1.5 employees as
storing, cleaning, testing, assembling, related to the working period when the
repairing or servicing establishments   maximum number of persons is employed
as permitted in the manufacturing       on the premises, or 1 space for each
district                                800 square feet of floor area,
                                        whichever is greater
                                        2 spaces for each office, examining
                                        room and treatment room, plus 1 space
Medical and dental clinics              for each 50 square feet of floor area
                                        contained in the reception room or
                                        waiting lobby
Offices; business, professional and     1 space for each 250 square feet of
public administration or service office floor area
buildings
Public utility and public service uses  1 space for each 2 employees
Restaurants, not including drive-in     1 space for each 100 square feet of
establishments                          floor area
Shopping center uses under unified      5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross
control or ownership                    leasable area
Undertaking establishments and funeral  1 space for each 100 square feet of
parlors                                 floor area, plus 1 space for each of
                                        the funeral parlor's official vehicles
                                        4 spaces, plus 1 space for each 1,500
                                        square feet of floor space over 4,500
Warehouse, storage, wholesale and mail  square feet or, when the number of
order establishments                    employees is specifically indicated, 1
                                        space for each 1.5 employees employed
                                        on the premises
All other businesses                    1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        floor area
Dwelling and lodging uses:               
                                        1 space for each room or suite of rooms
                                        comprising a lodging unit, 1 space for
Hotels and motels                       each 2 employees, and 1 space for each
                                        100 square feet of retail sales and
                                        dining area
                                        1 space for each lodging room, 1 space
Lodging houses and apartment hotels     for each dwelling unit, and 1 space for
                                        each 2 employees
Multiple-family dwellings               11/2 spaces for each dwelling unit1
Single-family detached dwellings        2 spaces for each dwelling unit1
Single-family semidetached or attached  2 spaces for each dwelling unit1
dwellings
Two-family detached dwellings           2 spaces for each dwelling unit1
Recreational uses; commercial or         
noncommercial:
                                        7 spaces for each lane, plus such
Bowling alleys                          additional spaces as may be required
                                        herein for affiliated uses such as
                                        restaurants and the like
                                        1 space for each 4 persons, based upon
Parks, recreation center, and community the maximum number of persons that can
centers; public or private              be accommodated at the same time in
                                        accordance with such design capacity,
                                        and 1 space for each 2 employees
Theaters                                1 space for each 2 seats
                                        Reservoir standing spaces equal in
Theaters (automobile drive-in)          number to 10 percent of the vehicle
                                        capacity of such theaters
Schools, institutions and auditoriums    
or other places of assembly:
Auditoriums, meeting halls, exhibition
halls and auditoriums as accessory to   1 space for each 5 seats or for each 90
churches, schools, and other            linear inches of seating space
establishments
Churches, chapels, temples and          1 space for each 5 seats or for each 90
synagogues                              linear inches of seating space
                                        1 space for each 4 students, based upon
Colleges, junior colleges, and          the maximum number of students that can
universities                            be accommodated in accordance with
                                        design capacity, plus 2 spaces for each
                                        3 employees
                                        1 space per bed, plus 1 space for each
Hospitals                               staff doctor, and 1 space for each 2
                                        employees
Libraries, museums, and art galleries   3 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
Nursing homes and similar types of      1 space for each 2 beds, plus 1 space
establishments                          for each 2 employees
Private clubs and lodges                5 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
Schools:                                 
                                        1 space for each employee, plus 1 space
Commercial or trade, music, dance, or   for each 3 students, based on the
business                                maximum number of students that can be
                                        accommodated in accordance with design
                                        capacity
                                        1 space for each 6 students, based on
                                        the maximum number of students that can
High; public or private                 be accommodated in accordance with
                                        design capacity, plus 1 space for each
                                        faculty member and each other full time
                                        employee
Nursery, elementary, or junior high;    1 space for each faculty member and
public or private                       each other full time employee
                                        Parking spaces for other permitted uses
                                        or special uses not listed in this
Other uses                              section shall be provided in accordance
                                        with requirements designated by the
                                        Zoning Board of Appeals
 
Note:
    1.   Parking spaces located in a garage or carport are counted in
determining compliance with this provision.
(Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
8-8-1-8: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR LOADING FACILITIES; NUMBER OF SPACES:
There shall be provided off street loading spaces of not less than the minimum
requirements specified in this section in connection with any building,
structure or use which is to be erected or substantially altered, and which
requires the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by trucks or
similar vehicles in accordance with the following:
   A.   Location: Accessory off street loading spaces shall be located on the
same lot as the principal use. No loading space shall be located within forty
feet (40') of the nearest point of intersection of any two (2) streets. No
loading space shall be located in a required front or side yard, and any
loading space located in a required rear yard shall be open to the sky.
   B.   Screening: Open off street loading spaces which abut a residential
district boundary line shall be completely screened therefrom by a fence, wall,
door, or any combination thereof, not less than six feet (6') nor more than
eight feet (8') in height, or a densely planted tree or shrub hedge maintained
to not less than six feet (6') in height.
   C.   Size: Unless otherwise specified in this title, a required off street
loading space shall be at least fourteen feet (14') in width and at least fifty
five feet (55') in length, exclusive of access drives, aisles, ramps, and
maneuvering space, and shall have a vertical clearance of not less than fifteen
feet (15').
   D.   Access: Each required off street loading space shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movements. Access drives and intersection of
driveways with streets shall be in accordance with regulations set forth in the
Grundy County highway access regulation ordinance.
   E.   Surfacing: All open off street loading spaces, access drives, aisles,
and maneuvering space shall be improved with a hard surface and a permanent
wearing surface as approved by the Land Use Department.
   F.   Use Restrictions: No storage of any kind nor motor vehicle repair work
or service of any kind shall be permitted within any required loading space.
   G.   Utilization: Space allocated to any off street loading spaces shall
not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off
street parking facilities or portions thereof.
   H.   Number Of Spaces: The minimum number of off street loading spaces
accessory to buildings, structures, and uses hereafter erected, structurally
altered, or enlarged, in all business and manufacturing districts, shall be in
accordance with the following schedule:
TABLE 8-8-1-8

REQUIRED PARKING BY GROSS FLOOR AREA
 
Gross Floor Area Of Establishment                            Required Number
5,000 to 10,000 square feet                                  1
10,001 to 40,000 square feet                                 2
40,001 to 100,000 square feet                                3
For each additional 100,000 square feet of gross floor area,
or fraction thereof, over 100,000 square feet of gross floor 1 additional space
area
 
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-8-1-9: BICYCLE PARKING:
   A.   Applicability: Bicycle parking shall be required for all parcels
proposed for development that have parking lots with twenty (20) or more
parking spaces.
   B.   Number Of Bicycle Parking Spaces: One bicycle parking space per ten
(10) parking spaces, to a maximum of six (6) bicycle parking spaces.
   C.   Bicycle Parking Design Standards: Bicycle parking shall be designed so
that:
      1.   The bicycle frame and one wheel can be locked to the rack with a
high security, U-shaped lock if both wheels are left on the bicycle. See
figure 8-8-1-9, "Permitted Bicycle Parking Example - Wave Rack", of this
section.
      2.   A bicycle that is six feet (6') long can be securely held with its
frame supported so that the bicycle cannot be pushed or fall in a manner that
will damage the wheel components.
      3.   Racks must be securely anchored.
      4.   Areas devoted to bicycle parking shall be hard surfaced.
      5.   Bicycle parking designs that only allow one locking point at the
wheel are prohibited.
      6.   Bicycle racks are not required for bicycle parking associated with
residential uses.
FIGURE 8-8-1-9

PERMITTED BICYCLE PARKING EXAMPLE - WAVE RACK
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1658.gif]
   D.   Bicycle Parking Location Standards:
      1.   Short term bicycle parking must be located within fifty feet (50')
of the principal building entrance, at the same grade as the sidewalk or
accessible route.
      2.   An aisle at least five feet (5') wide shall be provided behind all
required bicycle parking to allow room for bicycle maneuvering.
      3.   If required bicycle parking is not visible from the street or
principal building entrance, a sign shall be posted at the principal building
entrance indicating the location of the bicycle parking.
   E.   Administrative Adjustments: The land use director is authorized to
approve an administrative adjustment reducing the number of bicycle spaces if
it is demonstrated that:
      1.   The use will not generate any bicycle traffic; or
      2.   It is impossible to provide bicycle parking at the subject location.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-8-2: ACCESS MANAGEMENT AND CIRCULATION:
8-8-2-1: COMMON ACCESS AND INTERNAL CROSS ACCESS:
   A.   Separate Ownership; No Common Plan Of Development: Where adjacent
properties are separately owned and not part of a common plan of development,
the county may require common access or internal cross access as the parcels
are developed, substantially improved, or redeveloped. As such, an applicant
may be granted temporary individual access if:
      1.   The applicant demonstrates that a reasonable offer with regard to
cross access was refused by the adjacent landowner; and
      2.   The applicant records a covenant acceptable to the land use
department to ensure that the connection will be provided and access will be
consolidated upon the earlier of:
         a.   Approval for development, substantial improvement, or
redevelopment, of the adjacent property, if providing such connection is a
requirement of the approval for the adjacent property; or
         b.   The applicant's parcel and the adjacent parcel coming under
common ownership.
      3.   The applicant demonstrates that the proposed temporary access will
not materially affect the safe and efficient flow of traffic.
   B.   Common Ownership Or Common Plan Of Development: Phased development,
development sites under the same ownership, or development sites that are
consolidated for the purposes of development and comprised of more than one
building are considered unified parcels. Unified parcels shall provide access
as follows:
      1.   The number of connections permitted shall be the minimum number
necessary to provide reasonable access to the overall site and not the maximum
available for the site's frontage; and
      2.   Access to outparcels shall be internalized using the shared
circulation system and designed to avoid excessive movement across parking
aisles or queuing across surrounding parking and driving aisles.
   C.   Terms: The county may require that common and cross access easements
include one or more of the following:
      1.   A continuous drive extending the entire length of each block it
serves, or at least one thousand feet (1,000') of linear frontage along a
thoroughfare, whichever is less.
      2.   Sufficient width to accommodate a two-way access between properties,
designed to accommodate automobiles and service and loading vehicles.
      3.   Stub-outs and other design features to allow abutting properties to
be tied in to provide future cross access.
      4.   Linkage to other cross access drives in the area.
      5.   Common access, internal cross access, and driveway entrance
improvements for nonresidential developments shall be made prior to the
recording of a subdivision plat, unless proper surety has been posted to
guarantee those improvements.
   D.   Approval And Recording Of Easements: Access that is shared by adjacent
properties, whether under single or separate ownership, requires that an
appropriate legal instrument to ensure continued shared access be approved by
the land use department and recorded in the official public record at the
applicant's expense. The recorded book and page number shall be referenced on
any subsequent subdivision plats of the property. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-8-2-2: NUMBER OF ACCESS POINTS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Generally, the maximum number of access points allowed will be the
smallest number of access points that are necessary to accommodate the peak
hour demands of the site.
      2.   The maximum number of access points may be increased if:
         a.   The lot fronts on an arterial and one or more side streets of
lesser functional classification;
         b.   Access to the site will be provided from the streets of lesser
functional classification; and
         c.   The total number of access points along the arterial frontage is
reduced. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-8-3: EXTERIOR LIGHTING STANDARDS:
8-8-3-1: NONRESIDENTIAL LIGHTING STANDARDS:
   A.   Generally: The maximum permitted illumination and the maximum permitted
luminaire height shall conform with this section.
   B.   Fixture Type:
      1.   Generally, light fixtures shall be "cutoff" fixtures that limit
lighting that is visible or measurable at the property line.
      2.   "Non cutoff" fixtures may be used only for decorative purposes,
provided:
         a.   They have luminaires that produce no more than one thousand five
hundred (1,500) lumens (approximately equal to a 100W incandescent bulb);
         b.   They have a maximum height of fifteen feet (15'); and
         c.   They use energy efficient bulbs, such as compact fluorescent
(CF).
   C.   Maximum Freestanding Fixture Height: No freestanding light fixture
shall be greater than twenty five feet (25') in height.
   D.   Maximum Illumination:
      1.   Outdoor lighting shall be deflected, shaded, and focused away from
adjacent properties and shall not be a nuisance to such adjacent properties.
      2.   Outdoor lighting shall be designed so that any overspill of lighting
onto adjacent properties shall not exceed three-tenths (3/10) foot-candle,
measured vertically, and three-tenths (3/10) foot-candle, measured
horizontally, on adjacent properties.
      3.   The ground level luminance ratio (the ratio between the luminance of
the brightest point on the property and the darkest point on the property)
shall not exceed twelve to one (12:1).
      4.   If additional light is necessary, it shall be provided within an
enclosed structure.
   E.   Canopy Lighting: Canopy lighting for uses that have sheltered outside
work or service areas, such as gas stations, shall meet the standards of this
section. All luminaires shall be recessed into the canopy so that they cannot
be viewed from off site from an eye height of four feet (4') (to protect
automobile drivers from glare).
   F.   Outside Wall Mounted Lighting: No outside wall mounted lighting is
permitted unless it is a cutoff fixture that is pointed straight down. (Ord.
10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-8-3-2: EXTERIOR LIGHTING FOR OUTDOOR RECREATION:
   A.   Generally: Ball diamonds, playing fields, driving ranges, tennis
courts, and similar amusement or recreation uses have unique requirements for
nighttime visibility and, generally, have limited hours of operation. The
standards of this section, and not section
8-8-3-1, "Nonresidential Lighting Standards", of this chapter, apply to outdoor
recreation uses.
   B.   Fixture Type: Light fixtures for illumination of playing courts and
athletic fields shall be "cutoff" fixtures that limit lighting that is visible
or measurable at the property line.
   C.   Maximum Freestanding Fixture Height: No freestanding light fixture
shall be greater than eighty feet (80') in height.
   D.   Maximum Illumination:
      1.   Field and court lighting shall be deflected, shaded and focused away
from adjacent properties and shall not be a nuisance to such adjacent
properties.
      2.   Field and court lighting shall be designed so that any overspill of
lighting onto adjacent properties shall not exceed one-half (1/2) foot-candle,
measured vertically, and one-half (1/2) foot-candle, measured horizontally, on
adjacent properties.
      3.   A landscaped buffer yard may be used to block lighting spillover
onto adjacent property. The land use department may require more opaque buffer
yards than those in chapter 9, "Landscaping And Tree Protection", of this
title, to achieve this objective.
   E.   Hours Of Illumination: If the development is within three hundred feet
(300') of a residential district, field lights shall be turned off by ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-8-3-3: PUBLIC SAFETY AND PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   A.   Generally: The county may require the modification or removal or
limited operation of existing or new lighting fixtures found to be a public
hazard or public nuisance according to the criteria of this title.
   B.   Hazards: Criteria for finding illumination to be a public hazard are as
follows:
      1.   Light trespass or glare which is sufficiently intense or contrasts
excessively with surrounding illumination, regardless of the intensity of the
surrounding illumination, in a manner to cause impairment of visual performance
or to distract from or impair the safe operation of a vehicle.
      2.   Light trespass or glare that impairs a person's visual performance
or ability to avoid obstacles in their path.
   C.   Nuisance: Criteria for finding illumination to be a public nuisance are
as follows:
      1.   Light trespass or glare that deprives an owner or occupant of usual
and reasonable use and enjoyment of their property.
      2.   A high frequency and/or duration of periods when light trespass or
glare is sufficient to interrupt or interfere with usual and reasonable use and
enjoyment of a property.
      3.   Light trespass or glare that causes visual discomfort or impairment
of visual performance in a manner that deprives any person from the usual and
reasonable enjoyment of the public streets and properties of the county. (Ord.
10-001, 1-12-2010)
CHAPTER 9
LANDSCAPING AND TREE PROTECTION
SECTION:
8-9-1: General Requirements
8-9-2: Site Protection And General Planting Requirements
8-9-3: Landscaping And Buffer Areas
8-9-4: Front Yard Requirements
8-9-5: Parking Lot Landscape Requirements
8-9-6: Performance Standards
8-9-7: Incentives
8-9-8: Landscape Standards For Streets
8-9-9: General Landscape Requirements
8-9-10: Installation, Maintenance, And Replacement
8-9-11: Preservation Of Trees And Other Vegetation
8-9-12: Invasive Nonnative Plant Restrictions
8-9-13: Natural Landscaping Restrictions
8-9-14: Stormwater Basin Landscaping
8-9-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A landscape plan shall be submitted for the initial site plan and for
the subdivision submittals of the preliminary and the final plats.
   B.   The landscape plan shall contain the following information:
      1.   Date, scale, north arrow, title block, and landscape architect seal
and signature. (Ord. 2012-012, 4-10-2012)
      2.   Size and quantity of the plantings including the species' names,
both common and botanical names, and the locations of those plantings.
      3.   Existing conditions including topography at two foot (2') contour
lines, trees survey (if necessary), plantings, and any other landscape features
such as rock outcroppings on the site. This plan shall identify existing trees
having a trunk size of four inches (4") measured six feet (6') from grade. The
information shall also include the general health of the tree, species,
diameter and height.
      4.   Landscaping for all areas on the site including, but not limited to,
parkway detail, interior parking lot areas, foundation plantings, and perimeter
detention/retention areas.
      5.   A protection plan for existing landscaping shall be provided for the
construction phases of the development.
      6.   Location of all buildings, structures, and pavement that are
proposed will remain on the site.
      7.   Location of any watercourses, ponds, or lakes.
      8.   Any information that the land use department finds necessary for an
adequate review of the proposal. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-9-2: SITE PROTECTION AND GENERAL PLANTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Topsoil Preservation: Topsoil moved during the course of construction
shall be redistributed on all regraded surfaces so as to provide at least six
inches (6") of even cover to all disturbed areas of the development and shall
be stabilized by seeding or planting.
   B.   Removal Of Debris: All stumps and other tree parts, litter, brush,
weeds, excess or scrap building materials or other debris shall be removed from
the site and disposed of in accordance with the law. All dead or dying trees,
standing or fallen, shall be removed from the site. Trees and limbs that are
reduced to chips are encouraged to be used as mulch in landscaped areas. (Ord.
10-001, 1-12-2010)
   C.   Protection Of Existing Landscaping: The following restrictions shall be
followed for areas that are designated as preserved landscape areas:
      1.   Barriers: Temporary barriers shall be placed in areas where
preservation is indicated on the landscape plans. The barriers shall provide
protection of the areas such that erosion control is established such as silt
fences and have signage that specifically states restrictions. Barriers shall
be self- supporting and be a minimum of four feet (4') in height and
constructed of a durable material that will be maintained until the
construction is completed.
      2.   Grading: Grading and construction equipment is prohibited from
encroaching on the drip line of any trees that are indicated as preserved. No
material or temporary soil deposits shall be placed within four feet (4') of
shrubs or the drip line of trees within the preserved areas.
      3.   Material Deposited: Limestone or any other material that is
detrimental to trees, shall not be discarded or placed within the drip line of
any trees nor shall material be located at an elevation which would contribute
runoff of such material toward the tree(s).
      4.   Utility Lines: Utility lines that are located within five feet (5')
of a trunk of a preserved tree shall be augured to prevent root damage to the
tree.
      5.   Pruning: Trees that are located within the preserved area which have
been subjected to the activity within the drip line should be selectively
pruned or thinned a minimum of ten percent (10%). All dead wood shall be
removed. (Ord. 2012-012, 4-10-2012)
      6.   Slope Plantings: Landscaping of all cuts and fills and/or terraces
shall be sufficient to prevent erosion, and all roadway slopes steeper than one
foot (1') vertically to three feet (3') horizontally shall be planted with
ground cover appropriate for the purpose and for soil conditions, water
availability, and the environment. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-9-3: LANDSCAPING AND BUFFER AREAS:
   A.   Applicability And Exemptions:
      1.   Landscaping requirements that are set forth within this section
shall apply to all improvements to a parcel with the exception of the
following:
         a.   Agriculture uses and structures.
         b.   Single- and two-family dwelling units.
   B.   New Development: Landscaping requirements shall apply to all new
development described below:
      1.   A nonresidential zoning district adjacent to a residential use or
residential zoning district.
      2.   A two-family or multi-family use that is adjacent to a single-
family detached use or a single-family detached zoning district.
      3.   Commercial driveways, parking areas, and outdoor trash containers
located on main arterial streets.
      4.   Parking lots that contain more than four (4) parking spaces that are
located less than forty feet (40') from a residential zoning district or use or
street right of way line.
      5.   Outdoor storage of goods, products, materials, supplies, machinery,
equipment, or commercial vehicles.
      6.   Outdoor trash facilities.
      7.   Planned use or special use development with mixed uses. (Ord. 10-
001, 1-12-2010)
   C.   Landscape Points: Landscape points shall be assigned as the following:
TABLE 8-9-3
LANDSCAPE POINTS
 
Tree classification:  Point Value
Shade tree            20 points
Evergreen tree        20 points
Intermediate tree     20 points
Shrub classification:  
Evergreen shrubs      5 points
Deciduous shrubs      3 points
 
(Ord. 2012-012, 4-10-2012)
8-9-4: FRONT YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landscape plans for front yards shall have a total amount of landscape
points equivalent to taking the length of the front property line and dividing
by two (2).
   B.   The minimum points that shall be used shall be eighty (80) landscape
points and shall be balanced appropriately between the shrubs and trees.
   C.   Berms may contribute to up to fifty percent (50%) of the total
landscape points for that portion of the landscaped yard. Berm heights of at
least two and one-half feet (2'6") will receive credit based on the following:
      1.   Berm height in feet x 10 = % of points credited (0.5') increments:
         a.   Example: 100'0" long berm at 2.5' high x 10 = 25% of points
credited for that landscape yard.
      2.   Berm heights of five feet (5') or more shall be credited a maximum
of fifty percent (50%) of the points required for that portion of the landscape
yard.
      3.   When berms are used in combination with fencing for required
screening, credit will be given for either the berm or the fence but not for
both. (Ord. 2012-012, 4-10-2012)
8-9-5: PARKING LOT LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Parking lot landscaping shall be evenly dispersed throughout the off
street parking areas in internal islands, in terminal medians, and along the
perimeter of the parking lot area.
Landscaping within the interior of off street parking areas shall be improved
with one canopy tree or one understory tree and a minimum of one hundred (100)
square feet of landscape area for every twelve (12) parking spaces.
      1.   End islands shall be a minimum width of nine feet (9') and a minimum
length of three feet (3').
      2.   Intermediate and half end islands shall be a minimum width of nine
feet (9') and minimum length of eighteen feet (18'). In the case of angle
parking, the perpendicular from the center of the parking bay to the aisle
shall be the minimum length.
      3.   Corner islands shall be a minimum of eighteen (18) square feet,
except in the case of angle parking, where the perpendicular length of the
stall from the centerline of the parking bay shall be the minimum dimension.
      4.   Center islands between head-in parking and drive islands shall be a
minimum width of nine feet (9') and the same length as the parking bay. (Ord.
2012-012, 4-10-2012)
   B.   Perimeter off street parking areas adjacent to a buffer zone shall be
improved with three (3) plant units per one hundred feet (100') of linear
distance surrounding the parking area. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010; amd. Ord. 2012-
012, 4-10-2012)
8-9-6: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   All landscape plans shall fully meet the following performance
standards of this section in order to receive approval:
      1.   Landscaping shall not impede the line of sight necessary for
motorists and pedestrians to move into, out of, and within the site.
      2.   Landscaping materials shall be selected and placed in such a manner
that they do not interfere with or damage existing utilities.
      3.   Landscaping materials shall be selected and placed such that the
materials do not inhibit the safe and enjoyable use of surrounding properties.
      4.   Landscaping should reduce the intrusion of headlights and other
glare and also provide a buffer between pedestrians and vehicles.
      5.   Landscaping should offer a visual separation or screen between land
uses that have intense activities or significantly different appearances or
that are otherwise incompatible to some degree. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-9-7: INCENTIVES:
   A.   Incentive For Preserving Existing Landscaping: Existing landscaping
that is in vigorous growing condition and is not specifically prohibited by
this title may count toward meeting the point requirements of this section.
Furthermore, the following plant materials will be awarded five (5) additional
points (added to the base value) per tree when preserved:
      1.   Shade trees: Twelve inch (12") diameter trunk or greater.
      2.   Intermediate trees: Fifteen foot (15') height or taller.
      3.   Evergreen trees: Fifteen foot (15') height or taller.
   B.   Incentive For Planting Larger Landscape: Planting of landscaping larger
than the minimum required sizes as specified herein will be rewarded with five
(5) additional points (added to base value) per tree when the proposed sizes
are as follows:
      1.   Shade trees: Four inch (4") diameter or greater.
      2.   Intermediate trees: Ten foot (10') height or taller.
      3.   Evergreen trees: Ten foot (10') height or taller. (Ord. 10-001, 1-
12-2010)
8-9-8: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS FOR STREETS:
   A.   Subdivisions And Local Streets: Subdivisions and local streets shall
have two (2) canopy trees per one hundred feet (100') of road frontage.
   B.   Arterial/Collector:
      1.   Residential uses abutting an arterial or collector street shall have
three (3) plant units per one hundred feet (100') of road frontage.
      2.   Nonresidential uses abutting an arterial or collector street shall
have one plant unit per one hundred feet (100') of road frontage. (Ord. 10-001,
1-12-2010)
8-9-9: GENERAL LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Conformance: All plants shall conform to the "American Standards For
Nursery Stock", latest edition according to the current standards of the
American Association Of Nurserymen.
   B.   Plant Availability And Hardiness: All plants used in landscape plans
shall be hardy in USDA zone 5.
   C.   Deciduous Shade And Street Trees: Deciduous shade and street trees
shall be fully branched, and have a minimum caliper of three inches (3"),
except for single lot residential development, which shall have a minimum
caliper of two and one-half inches (21/2") as measured six inches (6") above
ground level. Specimens shall be properly pruned to maintain a natural form.
   D.   Ornamental Trees: Ornamental trees shall be fully branched, and have a
minimum caliper of two and one-half inches (21/2") for single lot residential
development, which shall have a minimum caliper of two inches (2"), as measured
six inches (6") above ground level. Specimens shall be properly pruned to
maintain a natural form and effective screening.
   E.   Evergreen Trees: Evergreen trees shall have a minimum height of eight
feet (8'), except for single lot residential development, which shall have a
minimum height of six feet (6'). Trees shall be fully branched to the ground.
   F.   Columnar Evergreens: Columnar evergreens shall have a minimum height of
four foot (4') and shall be fully branched to the ground.
   G.   Tall Shrubs And Plants: Tall shrubs shall be supplied in five (5)
gallon or larger containers, or balled and burlapped. Plants shall measure at
least thirty six inches (36") in height and shall be fully branched to the
ground. Shrubs shall be properly pruned to maintain effective screening.
   H.   Low Shrubs And Plants: Low shrubs shall be supplied in two (2) gallon
or larger containers for residential developments or five (5) gallon or larger
containers for nonresidential development. Plants shall measure at least
eighteen inches (18") in height or spread for residential development and at
least twenty four inches (24") in height or spread for nonresidential
development.
   I.   Ground Cover Plants: Ground cover plants shall be planted so that an
effective covering is obtained within two (2) growing seasons, or a maximum
spacing of one foot (1') on center, in all directions.
   J.   Hazards: Plant materials, including deciduous trees and evergreen
trees, shall not cause a hazard. Landscape plant material overhanging walks,
pedestrian or bicycle paths, and seating areas shall be pruned to a minimum
height of eight feet (8'); and to a minimum height of twelve feet (12') over
streets and highways, and above parking lot aisles and spaces.
   K.   Mixture Of Trees: The landscape plan shall provide a mixture of trees
such that a maximum of thirty three percent (33%) of the total amount of the
required trees will not be of the same genus. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-9-10: INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPLACEMENT:
   A.   Installation: All landscaping shall be installed according to sound
nursery practices in a manner designed to encourage vigorous growth. Sites for
plant material shall be prepared or improved in accordance with American
Association Of Nurserymen standards for soil preparation and drainage. Friable
soil shall be provided in all planting areas, and subsurface drainage shall be
provided where berms, elevated areas, or other suitable means for providing
proper drainage do not exist. All shrubs shall be of a species that is hardy to
the USDA zone 5 restrictions.
   B.   Timing Of Installation: Required trees, shrubs, and sod shall be
installed on each lot prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for
that lot. The county may issue a temporary certificate of occupancy during
winter months, and a final certificate of occupancy when weather permits.
   C.   Maintenance And Replacement: Required trees, shrubs, structures, and
other landscape features shall be considered as elements of the project in the
same manner as parking, building materials, and other details are elements of
the plan. The landowner or successors in interest shall be jointly and
severally responsible for the following:
      1.   All landscaping shall be maintained in good condition and in a way
that presents a healthy, neat, and orderly appearance. All landscaping shall be
maintained free from disease, pests, weeds, and litter. Maintenance shall
include weeding, watering, fertilizing, pruning, mowing, edging, mulching, or
other maintenance, as needed. All maintenance shall be performed in accordance
with acceptable horticultural practices.
      2.   The repair or replacement of required landscape structures (fences,
etc.) to be in structurally sound condition.
      3.   The regular maintenance, repair, or replacement, where necessary, of
any landscaping required by this section; and
      4.   Continuous maintenance of the site as a whole.
      5.   The land use department shall be authorized to require assurance of
continued landscape performance and/or maintenance in the form of a condition,
covenant, contract, development agreement, or performance/maintenance assurance
to assure installation and, for a minimum two (2) year period, the continued
maintenance of landscape improvements associated with a development. The amount
of the performance assurance shall be at least one hundred twenty percent
(120%) of the estimated cost of the required landscape improvements. The
maintenance assurance shall be equal to at least ten percent (10%) of the
performance assurance.
   D.   Mechanisms Of Providing Guarantees: Performance and maintenance
guarantees shall be provided by one or more of the following means. The form
and details of the guarantees to be provided shall be as required by the county
board and approved by the state's attorney.
      1.   Surety Bond: The applicant shall obtain a security bond from a
surety bonding company authorized to do business in Illinois.
      2.   Letter Of Credit: The applicant shall provide an irrevocable letter
of credit from a bank or other reputable institution.
      3.   Escrow Account: The applicant shall deposit cash, or other
instruments readily convertible into cash at face value, either with the county
or in escrow with a bank.
      4.   Subdivision Improvement Agreement: The applicant shall provide as a
guarantee a subdivision improvement agreement between the applicant, lender,
and county. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-9-11: PRESERVATION OF TREES AND OTHER VEGETATION:
   A.   Applicability And Exemptions: Tree preservation shall be applied to
parcels that are greater than five (5) acres with the exception of the
following:
      1.   Agricultural uses.
      2.   Single- and two-family dwelling units which have trees that cover
less than twenty five percent (25%) of the parcel.
      3.   Diseased trees or trees that are damaged to the point where they
would no longer be considered healthy or pose a danger to the occupant or
structure(s).
      4.   For personal use for firewood for single- and two-family dwelling
uses.
      5.   For construction purposes where no alternate plan is feasible based
on site conditions.
   B.   Tree Removal: No live trees that are four inches (4") or greater in
diameter at a height of five feet (5') may be removed without first submitting
an application for tree removal and receiving approval.
   C.   Tree Removal Permit: The application for tree removal shall be made to
the county land use department. This application must be submitted and approved
prior to the site grading plan permit issuance. The plan shall include the
following:
      1.   A tree survey showing the location of all trees that are four inches
(4") in caliper or greater within one hundred feet (100') of any tree proposed
to be removed, including a description of the tree(s), botanical name, common
name, caliper size, and general condition or health of the tree(s). The survey
shall be completed by an International Society Of Arboriculture certified
arborist or Illinois department of natural resources consultant forester.
      2.   Delineation of trees to be removed and trees to be preserved.
      3.   Details and specifications or procedures to be used to protect trees
being preserved.
      4.   Location, size, and name of the replacement trees.
   D.   Tree Preservation And Removal Guidelines:
      1.   Preservation: Every reasonable effort shall be made to retain
existing trees shown on the tree survey through the integration of those trees
into the site plan and landscape plan for proposed development.
         a.   Critical areas, such as forested riparian zones, steep slopes,
and wetlands, should be left in their natural condition or only partially
cleared where invasive plants are located. Resource preservation standards are
listed in section
8-4-2-2, "Resource Protection Levels", of this title.
         b.   Cutting and filling within the vicinity of the preserved trees
should be minimal.
         c.   On all lots, the area that is within fifty feet (50') of the
front lot line shall be preserved unless there is a demonstrated need for
removal due to driveway or utility access.
         d.   On corner lots, existing trees in street side yards that abut
collector or arterial streets shall be preserved unless there is a demonstrated
need for removal due to driveway or utility access.
         e.   If more than one-third (1/3) of the tree's root system is to be
affected by construction (such as compaction of the soil, cutting, etc.), the
tree should be part of the removal plan and replaced with the appropriate
number of trees.
      2.   Preconstruction Protection Measures:
         a.   A temporary six foot (6') orange construction safety fence, rigid
wood fence, or chainlink fence, along with signage, must surround the periphery
of the tree drip line as a construction barrier prior to the start of any site
work.
         b.   If construction limits encroach within the drip line of the tree,
the following procedures will be required:
            (1)   Trunk wrapping from the base of the tree to a height ten feet
(10') above grade. No attachments, such as board shall be attached with nails
or other fasteners to the tree.
            (2)   Underground utility lines that are proposed within five feet
(5') of the preserved trees shall be augured or bored. This should be clearly
shown on the plans.
      3.   Tree Removal: Trees shall be removed if the following conditions
exist:
         a.   Dead from natural causes.
         b.   Pose a safety hazard to people or property.
         c.   Substantially diseased or weakened by age, storm, fire or other
injury.
         d.   The tree removal is of a nuisance tree as listed below:
NUISANCE TREES
Common Name Scientific Name
NUISANCE TREES
Common Name      Scientific Name
Ash, green       Fraxinus pennsylvanica spp.
Ash, white       Fraxinus americana spp.
Autumn olive     Eleagnus umbellate
Black locust     Robina pseudoacacia
Boxelder         Acer negundo
Common buckthorn Rhamnus cathartica
Cottonwood       Populus deltoids
European ash     Fraxinus excelsior
Gingko (female)  Gingko biloba
Golden rain tree Koelreuteria paniculata
Osage orange     Maculra pomifera
Russian olive    Eleagnus angustifolia
Siberian elm     Ulmus pumila
Silver maple     Acer saccharinum
Tree of heaven   Ailanthus altissma
White mulberry   Morus alba
Willow           Salix, spp.
 
      4.   Acceptable Landscaping:
SHADE TREES
Common Name Scientific Name
SHADE TREES
Common Name            Scientific Name
Coffee tree, Kentucky  Gymnocadius dioica
Ginkgo                 Ginkgo biloba
Hackberry              Celtis occidentialis
Honey locust           Gleditsia tricanthos
Linden, American       Tilia americana spp.
Linden, little leaf    Tilia cordata spp.
Linden, silver         Tilia tomentosa
Maple, black           Acer nigrum
Maple, Norway          Acer platanoides spp.
Maple, red             Acer rubrum
Maple, sugar           Acer saccharum
Oak, burr              Quercus macrocarpa
Oak, swamp white       Quercus bicolor
Oak, white             Quercus alba
Pear, Bradford         Pyrus calleryana
Pear, Cleveland select Cleveland select
Sycamore               Platanus occidentalis
Tulip tree             Liriodendron tulipfera
EVERGREEN TREES
Common Name            Scientific Name
Fir, douglas           Pseudotsuga menziesli
Fir, white             Abies concolor
Pine, Austrian         Pinus, nigra
Pine, Scotch           Pinus sylvestris
Pine, white            Pinus strobes
Spruce, Black Hills    Picea glauca densata
Spruce, Colorado       Picea pungens
Spruce, Norway         Picea abies
Spruce, white          Picea strobes
ORNAMENTAL TREES
Common Name            Scientific Name
Alder                  Alnus glutinosa
Birch, river           Betual nigra
Hawthorn, downy        Crataegus molis
Hawthorn, thornless    Crataegus crusgali inermis
Hawthorn, Washington   Crataegus phaenopyrum
Hornbeam, American     Carpinus carolinaiana
Lilac, Japanese tree   Syringa reticulate
Magnolia, saucer       Magnolia soulangiana
Magnolia, star         Magnolia stellata
Redbud                 Cercis canadensis
Serviceberry, apple    Amelanchier grandflora
Serviceberry, shadblow Amelanchier canadensis
 
         a.   Any tree approved for removal shall be replaced with new trees
that have a minimum caliper of two and one-half inches (21/2") and shall
consist of the shade tree varieties listed under this subsection C4,
"Acceptable Landscaping". The tree replacement schedule is as follows:
            TREE REPLACEMENT SCHEDULE
 
Caliper Of Tree (Inches) Number Of Replacement Trees
30 or greater            6
13 to 29                 5
8 to 12                  4
4 to 7                   2
 
         b.   Any tree that is identified as a preserved tree and is removed or
damaged shall be replaced with the following schedule:
         PRESERVED TREE REPLACEMENT SCHEDULE
 
Caliper Of Tree (Inches) Number Of Replacement Trees
30 or greater            12
13 to 29                 10
8 to 12                  8
4 to 7                   4
 
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-9-12: INVASIVE NONNATIVE PLANT RESTRICTIONS:
All weeds in excess of fifteen inches (15") in height shall be cut. Failure to
cut weeds will require that the zoning officer notify the owner of the lot that
if the weeds are not cut within fifteen (15) days of notification that the
weeds will be cut at the owner's expense. Failure to pay the cutting fees will
require that a lien be placed against the property for that amount.
   A.   Exceptions:
      1.   Native Plantings: The use of native plant species for function,
aesthetics, and/or wildlife reasons.
      2.   Wildlife Plantings: The use of native and/or introduced plant
species to attract and aid wildlife.
      3.   Erosion Control: To offset and control any soil loss problems both
occurring and predicted. Erosion control plantings should be selected in
accordance with section
8-9-13, "Natural Landscaping Restrictions", of this chapter.
      4.   Soil Fertility Building: The enrichment and eventual stabilization
of soil fertility through the use of various plant species.
      5.   Governmental Programs: Any federal, state or local programs which
require the unimpaired growth of plants during a majority or all of the growing
season.
      6.   Educational Programs: Any areas designated for educational studies.
      7.   Cultivation: Any plant species or group of plant species native or
introduced and grown for consumption, pleasure, or business reasons.
      8.   Biological Control: The planting of a particular plant species or
group of species which will effectively out compete and replace a noxious or
troublesome weed species without additional soil disturbance of the site.
      9.   Parks And Open Space: Any and all public parks and open space lands
whether under the jurisdiction of federal, state or local agencies including
private conservation/preservation organizations.
      10.   Wooded Areas: All areas that are predominantly wooded. (Ord. 10-
001, 1-12-2010)
8-9-13: NATURAL LANDSCAPING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   All natural landscaped areas shall have a setback of three feet (3')
from the lot line of an adjoining property. The setback area shall consist of
turf grass that is maintained.
   B.   Natural landscaped areas shall include features that are conducive to
the lighting, soil conditions, and the current landscape of the property.
Owners of natural landscaped areas shall have a detailed plan that indicates
the species of plants and topography of the site.
   C.   Prescribed burning of native plants should be done. A fire plan shall
be provided as part of the landscape plan. The fire plan information shall be
provided prior to the burn to the fire district in which the property is
located and to the Illinois EPA. Signage shall be provided on the property to
indicate that a prescribed burn will be completed for public notice.
   D.   Natural landscaped areas shall include native plantings and shall be
free of noxious weeds as listed in subsection
4-8-1A of this code and the weeds as listed below:
      1.   Common ragweed.
      2.   Giant ragweed.
      3.   Japanese honeysuckle.
      4.   Multiflora rose. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-9-14: STORMWATER BASIN LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Applicability: All stormwater retention and detention facilities shall
apply the following landscaping requirements:
      1.   Native prairie grasses, grass like species, wildflowers, and wetland
species shall be planted in and around stormwater basins. Trees, shrubs, and
native plantings may be included in the planting schedule of the basins above
the high water line of the basins.
      2.   Stormwater basin planting area shall include:
         a.   The bottom and side slopes of dry basins or ponds from the normal
water line to ten feet (10') beyond the high water line.
         b.   The submergent, emergent wet meadow and upland zones of wetland
basins, wet basins, or ponds shall be planted with native plantings that are
conducive to the region in which they are planted.
   B.   Stormwater Basin General Landscape Requirements:
      1.   All plants specified, excepting temporary cover crop, shall be
native to the north central region of the United States.
      2.   A minimum of five (5) native grasses, which may include rush and
sedge species, and twenty five (25) native wildflower species, shall be
included in the planting area.
      3.   Seventy percent (70%) of native nonwoody species shall have a mature
height of at least thirty inches (30") to provide sufficient plant height and
density for goose control.
      4.   Safety ledges in ponds shall be planted with native wetland species.
      5.   Cover crop shall consist of noninvasive species compatible with the
establishment of native plantings.
      6.   Specify erosion control measures for seedling and planting.
      7.   Plantings shall be designed to provide a variety of blooming periods
throughout the year.
   C.   Establishment Requirements: Areas to be planted with native species
shall conform to the following requirements to ensure establishment:
      1.   Planting area shall not exceed a five to one (5:1) slope.
      2.   Where space allows, areas up to one foot (1') above the normal water
line shall not exceed a ten to one (10:1) slope.
      3.   Planting areas shall have at least twelve inches (12") of clean
uncompacted topsoil. Subsoils shall be loosened and topsoil applied to minimize
compaction.
      4.   Cover crop may be planted immediately after grading to prevent
erosion if conditions are conducive for native species seeding. Permanent
native species shall be planted during the first available growing season at
the appropriate time and conditions for such plantings.
      5.   Open areas shall be separated within three feet (3') of adjacent
properties with mowed turf or short native grass. The grasses shall be
regularly mowed to serve as a physical separation between native plantings and
adjacent properties.
      6.   Paths within the native landscape area shall be no more than four
feet (4') in width and shall not be asphalt or oil granular material. Paths may
access shoreline of permanent water areas along no more than a total of twenty
percent (20%) of the shoreline length.
      7.   Trees and shrubs shall not interfere with access easements and
access to stormwater basins for maintenance purposes.
      8.   Plantings shall meet the following minimum annual performance
criteria. A report shall be provided to the land use department indicating the
status of these annual evaluations. Areas which do not meet annual
establishment standards as determined by the county shall be replanted at the
developer's/owner's expense.
         a.   First year: Ninety percent (90%) of cover crop established. No
bare areas greater than two (2) square feet. Invasive species control measures
approved in the plan.
         b.   Second year: Full vegetative cover. At least fifty percent (50%)
of vegetation present shall be native noninvasive species. Invasive species
control measures approved in the plan.
         c.   Third year: At least seventy five percent (75%) of vegetation
present shall be native noninvasive species. Nonnative species shall constitute
no more than twenty five percent (25%) of relative aerial coverage of the
planted area. Invasive species control measures approved in the plan.
            (1)   A compliance report shall be submitted by the owner's/
developer's certified landscape architect no less than sixty (60) days prior to
the expiration of the landscape letter of credit certifying that the planting
meets the performance criteria and requesting the release of the landscape
letter of credit. Final acceptance and release shall be determined by the
county upon inspection to verify compliance.
   D.   Long Term Maintenance: Stormwater basin native plantings shall be
maintained according to approved management practices as provided for in
subdivision covenants or easement, following final acceptance of the planting
by the county.
      1.   Prescribed burning annually or at least every three (3) years is the
best management practice for established native prairie plantings. Burning
requires a permit from Illinois EPA and notification of the local fire
district. Burning shall be performed by a contractor that has experience in
burning natural landscape.
      2.   Late fall or early winter mowing to a height of six (6) to twelve
inches (12") with removal of hay may be performed in alternate years where
burning is not practical or conditions are not conducive to burning.
      3.   Application of herbicide to control invasive species may be
necessary if burning does not control or eliminate them. A certified and
licensed pesticide applicator shall select a herbicide which is nontoxic to
animal and aquatic life and shall apply the herbicide by the appropriate method
to prevent killing of desirable native species. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
CHAPTER 10
OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-10-1: Purpose And Applicability
8-10-2: Nonresidential Design Standards
8-10-2-1: Nonresidential Use Site Design Standards
8-10-2-2: Nonresidential Building Design Standards
8-10-2-3: Connectivity And Access Management
8-10-3: Residential Design Standards
8-10-3-1: Residential Site Design Standards
8-10-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this overlay district is to establish access
and design standards to ensure that new development, redevelopment, substantial
reconstruction, or expansion of existing buildings enhances the overall quality
and character of the county.
   B.   Traffic Safety And Access Management Intent: Traffic and access
management safety issues associated with major arterials are also primary
concerns in this overlay district. The provision of safe access to adjoining
roads and interconnections between adjoining developments is important to a
transportation system that works. Access to the state's roads is governed by
the Illinois department of transportation, which is responsible for the review
of the site plan for access to the adjoining road network. It is the purpose of
this overlay district to encourage connectivity between adjoining uses along
arterial and collector roads to reduce the need for traffic to go onto major
roads to reach nearby uses. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
   C.   Applicability: The extent of the overlay district is coterminous with
the extent of the commercial land uses identified along U.S. 6, IL-47, and IL-
113 in the Grundy County land use plan as indicated in the overlay district
maps on file with the county. The requirements for the overlay districts shall
be applicable for all parcels that from U.S. 6, IL-47, and IL-113 for a
distance of one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of depth from the front lot
line into the parcel. The land use plan and the overlap maps are available from
the Grundy County land use department. (Ord. 2012-014, 4-10-2012)
8-10-2: NONRESIDENTIAL DESIGN STANDARDS:
8-10-2-1: NONRESIDENTIAL USE SITE DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Parking And Loading:
      1.   Parking Location: Parking areas containing more than twenty (20)
vehicle spaces shall have at least seventy five percent (75%) of the spaces
located beside or behind the principal building unless there are site
conditions that prohibit such parking lot design.
      2.   Loading Location And Screening: All loading areas are required to be
located on the same lot as the building or lot served by the loading area.
Semitrailer loading spaces and loading docks shall be located behind buildings
and completely screened from view from adjacent properties and public rights of
way by walls, enclosures, berms, or landscaping. Loading areas shall be located
such that no part of a truck extends into right of way or interferes with
parking access while it is loading or unloading.
   B.   Signage: Within the overlay district, the sign regulations identified
in chapter 5, "Signs", of this title, are modified such that only monument
signs with a height of not more than eight feet (8') are permitted in the
overlay district. No other sign types, including pole mounted signs, are
allowed in the overlay district.
   C.   Landscaping Requirements: All of the landscaping standards from chapter
9, "Landscaping And Tree Protection", of this title apply in the overlay
district, except as follows:
      1.   The landscaping requirements apply within the overlay district
regardless of the zoning of adjacent property;
      2.   The landscaping requirements apply to all nonresidential, two-
family, and multi-family development; and
      3.   Front yard landscaping shall be calculated as one point for each
foot in length of the front property line.
      4.   An additional twenty (20) points of landscaping is required in the
area within five feet (5') of a monument sign. This signage landscape
requirement may be applied towards the front yard landscaping requirement. See
subsection B of this section for the overlay district signage requirements.
   D.   Trash Collection: All dumpsters and trash collection areas are subject
to the following standards:
      1.   Dumpster and trash areas shall be located and designed for loading
and trash collection to be done in an efficient manner that allows trucks easy
movements for trash collection.
      2.   Trash areas shall be located and oriented so that they do not create
a nuisance to adjoining owners or an unsightly view from public or private
roads. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
      3.   Trash container or collection areas shall be screened on three (3)
sides at one hundred percent (100%) opacity with materials that are
aesthetically similar as the architecture of the main structure and also
durable for the use intended. Chainlink fencing is prohibited. (Ord. 2012-009,
4-10-2012)
      4.   Dumpster enclosures shall be architecturally compatible to the
principal building in terms of materials and color.
      5.   Gates are required and shall be constructed of wood. (Ord. 10-001,
1-12-2010)
8-10-2-2: NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Generally: Nonresidential buildings shall conform to the design
standards of this section.
   B.   Three Hundred Sixty Degree Architecture: The architectural features,
materials, and articulation of the front facade shall be continued on all
sides. The rear facade may be exempted if no section shall be visible from an
existing or planned public street.
   C.   Prohibited Building Finish Materials: Building materials used for
exterior walls of each elevation of all commercial or mixed use buildings shall
not use prefabricated metal siding or corrugated metal.
   D.   Blank Walls: All exterior building elevations that face public streets,
customer parking areas, or areas of residential use shall be designed so that
there are no areas of blank wall that are more than forty feet (40') in
horizontal or vertical direction. This requirement can be met by window
openings, articulation of the building, porches or balconies, material and
color variations, decorative cornices, murals, score lines, and graphics.
Foundation plantings equal to a shrub every ten feet (10') or tree every forty
feet (40') are also sufficient.
   E.   Corporate Logos And Signage: Corporate logos or signs that are used on
building facades are regulated as signs, in accordance with chapter 5, "Signs",
of this title.
   F.   Mechanical Equipment: Rooftop mechanical equipment (e.g., HVAC systems)
mounted on a flat roof shall be screened with materials and colors that are
consistent with the design of the building. In addition, mechanical equipment
shall be screened from all ground level views from adjacent property and rights
of way by:
      1.   Parapet walls; or
      2.   Hedges installed on a green roof system, provided that the
mechanical equipment is set back at least twenty five feet (25') from all
exterior building walls; or
      3.   Sloped roof systems or other architectural elements that conceal the
flat roof area where the equipment is not visible from ground level views.
   G.   Building Design Features Menu: Each building over fifty thousand
(50,000) square feet shall incorporate five (5) of the following ten (10)
building design options:
      1.   Building Materials:
         a.   In order to vary texture, every elevation of the building shall
be composed of not less than two (2) materials.
         b.   Use of masonry or brick for fifteen percent (15%) of the building
front facade.
         c.   The front facade shall have a rhythm created by vertical elements
with a twenty (20) to twenty five foot (25') on center spacing. This vertical
element shall be wrapped around the side of the building for the first fifty
feet (50').
         d.   The buildings should articulate the floor levels with horizontal
bands of different materials, offsets and shadow lines, changes in window
treatments, or changes in material or color, balconies, or railings.
         e.   Minor setback offsets to make it appear as if it were a separate
building. The minimum offset is one foot (1') with a maximum of six feet (6').
         f.   A change in the number of floors.
         g.   Obvious variations in roof or parapet height or design.
      2.   Transparency:
         a.   Not less than thirty percent (30%) of the ground level front
facade shall be transparent, including window or door openings that allow views
into and out of the interior of the building.
      3.   Entrances:
         a.   Entrances to ground level uses shall be recessed between three
(3) and eight feet (8').
         b.   Covered by awnings that project between four (4) and six feet
(6') from the building face. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-10-2-3: CONNECTIVITY AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT:
The following governs the review of access and interconnection:
   A.   General: Developments shall have restricted access to collector or
arterial roads in the overlay district and conform to the Grundy County highway
access regulation ordinance. Every effort shall be made to ensure developments
along these roads share common access points to maintain the capacity of the
road by restricting turning movements.
   B.   Highway Access Management: Strip development with each use having its
own access to state roads is undesirable.
      1.   Access To Arterials: All access points to arterials shall comply
with the Grundy County highway access regulation ordinance.
      2.   Corner Parcels And Access To IL-47: A corner parcel that has street
frontage on IL-47 and another thoroughfare shall take access from the other
thoroughfare unless such access poses a safety challenge or requires the
destruction of a high value resource.
      3.   Additional Highway Access Review: The Illinois department of
transportation (IDOT) shall review all subdivision and land development
applications and indicate whether it approves of the proposed access in terms
of location and sight distances, acceleration and deceleration lanes, turn
lanes, traffic signs and/or signals, and the capacity of the road to handle the
proposed traffic.
      4.   Temporary Curb Cuts: Should the first parcel to develop not be at
the best location for access to an area, the county and IDOT may issue a
temporary curb cut permit. This temporary curb cut allows the entrance to be
located there, provided that there are connections to the adjoining properties
and the landowner signs an agreement giving IDOT permission to close the curb
cut, at the landowner's expense, once the property has access to a better curb
cut location.
      5.   Curb Cut Width: Wherever consistent with safe access and traffic
circulation, limit curb cuts to the least width necessary.
   C.   Internal Circulation: The internal circulation shall be such that it
provides for automobile and pedestrian access across the site and adjoining
sites for interconnecting traffic. The land use department, or its designee,
shall review the plans to ensure that, where interconnections can be made or
where adjoining properties have provided for interconnections, the plan makes
the connections.
      1.   Internal Pedestrian Access: In parking areas containing over twenty
(20) vehicles, pedestrian walkways between the main entrance and the parking
area should include a sidewalk or be clearly identified with a crosswalk.
      2.   Connectivity: To ensure safe and convenient access and circulation,
the county may require connections between abutting parcels, including
connected parking areas, frontage roads, or reverse frontage roads. The
development committee shall review the layout and engineering of such linkages
to ensure that they are feasible and safe. The plan shall be changed if the
circulation pattern does not meet these criteria:
         a.   Sufficient width to accommodate a two-way access between
properties, designed to accommodate automobiles and service and loading
vehicles.
         b.   Stub-outs and other design features to allow abutting properties
to be tied in to provide future cross access.
         c.   Linkage to other cross access drives in the area.
      3.   Planned Cross Access (Stub Streets): Land development plans may be
required to be modified to make the connections or to ensure that the
interconnections between a number of properties are planned in a manner that
facilitates movements between sites. In the event that a neighboring site has
not yet been developed, the plans shall illustrate the space reserved for stub
street location. Any planned connections may defer construction until the
adjacent property is developed.
      4.   Existing Stubs: If the neighboring property has provided a stub to
the subject property, the connection shall be made unless there is a high
quality resource that would have to be destroyed to make the connection.
      5.   Intersection Alignment: Either the centerline of opposing
nonresidential access points shall be directly aligned or they shall be offset
no less than seventy five feet (75').
   D.   Easements: Access that is shared by adjacent properties, whether under
single or separate ownership, requires that an access easement and agreement
between property owners be approved by the county and recorded. The recorded
book and page number shall be denoted on any subsequent subdivision plats of
the property. Access shall conform to the Grundy County highway access
regulation ordinance. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-10-3: RESIDENTIAL DESIGN STANDARDS:
8-10-3-1: RESIDENTIAL SITE DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Landscaping: In addition to any applicable landscaping requirements set
out in chapter 9, "Landscaping And Tree Protection", of this title, two (2)
trees shall be planted in the front yard of new single-family detached
residential units. This landscaping requirement applies whether located as a
single lot split or as part of a larger subdivision.
   B.   Prohibited Building Finish Materials: Building materials used for
exterior walls of each elevation of all attached residential, multi-family
buildings shall not use prefabricated metal siding or corrugated metal.
   C.   Driveway Access: The driveway should be configured to allow for cars to
not have to back out onto an arterial or collector street. A turnaround or
similarly functional driveway feature should be identified on the site plans.
   D.   Subdivision Access: Subdivisions should take access from local streets
and not allow individual lots to access arterials directly (see subsection
8-6-3-1C, "Residential Development Design", of this title). (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
CHAPTER 11
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS AND CAMPGROUNDS
SECTION:
8-11-1: Purpose And Intent
8-11-2: Development Permit And Site Plan Requirements
8-11-3: Health And Sanitation Requirements
8-11-4: Service Buildings And Accessory Uses
8-11-5: Recreational Areas
8-11-6: Street System, Parking, And Pedestrian Access
8-11-7: Individual Space Requirements
8-11-8: Environmental, Open Space, And Access Requirements
8-11-9: Fires
8-11-10: Responsibilities Of Park Management
8-11-11: Responsibilities Of Park Users
8-11-12: Access For Repairs And Maintenance
8-11-13: Inspections
8-11-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The County is dedicated to the preservation of productive agricultural land.
This chapter is not intended to conflict with this policy, but rather, this
chapter offers an alternative use for marginally productive farmland such as
woodlands. This chapter is designed to:
   A.   Protect and maintain productive agricultural lands;
   B.   Protect and maintain the future development of agricultural operations
by protecting existing agricultural operations from incompatible uses;
   C.   Prevent excessive increases in public service costs by directing
proposed campgrounds to areas served by or adjacent to public service
facilities;
   D.   Protect the County's high quality recreational resource areas including
wooded areas, natural watercourses, ponds, wetlands, unique topographic
features, and slopes exceeding ten percent (10%); and
   E.   Ensure that recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds maintain the
high quality of the County's recreational resource areas. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-11-2: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application For Permit: All applications for a permit to operate a
recreational vehicle park or campground shall contain the following:
      1.   Name, address, and telephone number of applicant.
      2.   Percentage of interest of the applicant and/or owners in the
proposed campground.
      3.   Names and addresses of all persons holding interest or having an
interest in the proposed campground.
      4.   Location, address, and legal description of the entire proposed
campground.
      5.   Existing zoning of subject property and all adjacent properties.
      6.   Complete engineering plans and specifications of the proposed
campground showing:
         a.   The area and dimensions of the entire tract of land.
         b.   The number, location, and size of all lots intended for use by
recreational vehicles or tents.
         c.   The number, location, and size of all unimproved, partially
improved, and fully improved lots.
         d.   The location, right-of-way and surfaced roadway width, and
surfacing material of roadways and walkways.
         e.   The location of proposed interior vehicular and pedestrian
circulation patterns.
         f.   The location of service buildings, sanitary stations, and any
other existing or proposed structures.
         g.   The location of water and sewer lines.
         h.   Plans and specifications of all buildings constructed or to be
constructed within the campground.
         i.   Plans and specifications of the water supply, refuse and sewage
disposal facilities, and pet exercise and sanitation areas.
         j.   The location and details of lighting and electrical systems.
         k.   The location of fire hydrants, if provided.
         l.   Location of all drainage easements shall comply with County
drainage plans.
         m.   Quantity and point or area of departure of stormwater runoff
prior to and subsequent to construction of the proposed RV park. Engineering
plans and calculations for these measurements shall be in compliance with the
County soil and erosion ordinance (see section
8-4-5 of this title).
         n.   Erosion control and landscaping plan.
         o.   The County ASCS Soils Report.
         p.   The calendar months of the year during which the applicant will
operate the proposed campground.
   B.   Site Plan:
      1.   Information Required: Every application for the construction,
operation, maintenance, and occupancy for a campground shall be accompanied
with plans and specifications, fully setting out the RV spaces, the position of
each RV, motor vehicle parking spaces, the driveway giving access thereto, and
a plan of landscaping.
      2.   Review: Before any permit is issued for a campground and the use
thereof, the plans and specifications shall be reviewed by the Grundy County
Zoning Board of Appeals taking into account all the provisions set out herein,
as well as such special use provisions specified in section
8-2-5-3, "Campgrounds And Recreational Vehicle Parks", of this title.
Additional requirements may be imposed by the County Board, the Zoning Board of
Appeals, and the Land Use Committee. Further, all plans and specifications must
be in accordance with State regulations governing campgrounds. (Ord. 2018-012,
6-12-2018)
   C.   Phased Developments: Where a campground development is proposed for
construction in a series of stages, a master plan for the development of the
entire tract of land shall be submitted along with the detailed plans and
specifications for the initial stage, as well as any subsequent stages.
   D.   Issuance Of Permit: After receiving approval as a special use, the Land
Use Department may issue a permit based upon the review and the requirements
set forth in section
8-14-6, "Special Use Permits", of this title. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-11-3: HEALTH AND SANITATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application Of State Regulations: Health and sanitation requirements
shall be based upon the requirements of the State rules and regulations for
recreational areas, effective October 29, 1980, as amended.
   B.   Garbage, Refuse, And Litter:
      1.   The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse shall be performed
so as to minimize accidents, fire hazards, air pollution, odors, insects,
rodents, or other nuisance conditions. Durable, watertight, easily cleanable
refuse containers, sufficient to contain all the refuse, shall be provided at
each service building and sanitary waste station or at a central storage area
readily accessible and located not more than three hundred feet (300') from any
camp or picnic site unless provided at campsite lots. Refuse containers shall
be provided at the rate of eight (8) cubic feet (60 gallons) for each five (5)
campsites or the equivalent thereof. Containers shall be covered with close
fitting, flytight covers.
      2.   The park or campground must maintain litter control and refuse
collection so as to prevent litter or refuse from blowing onto or otherwise
being deposited on nearby agricultural lands.
      3.   Insects and rodents shall be controlled by elimination of breeding
and harborage sources, proper sanitary practices, extermination, vermin
proofing of buildings, and other approved control methods.
   C.   Food Service: Food service facilities or activities must meet
requirements and recommendations of the health department. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-11-4: SERVICE BUILDINGS AND ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Permitted Buildings And Uses: Service buildings and accessory uses may
be permitted for some classes of parks or campgrounds. Permitted accessory
buildings and uses are as follows:
      1.   Classes A, B, C, D, E, F, and G:
         a.   Management offices, repair shops for park equipment, and storage
areas.
         b.   One dwelling unit is permitted and required in classes E, F, and
G for the manager or owner exclusively for seasonal use.
         c.   Sanitary facilities, including toilets and showers.
         d.   Store, for use by campers and daily users only.
      2.   Classes A, B, C, D, and E:
         a.   Laundry facilities.
         b.   Picnic shelters.
      3.   Classes A, B, C, and D:
         a.   Indoor recreation facilities, not to exceed three thousand
(3,000) square feet.
         b.   Management residence; each recreational vehicle park or
campground in class A, B, C, or D may have two (2) dwellings for residential
purposes of the owner and/or manager.
      4.   Classes A, B, and C:
         a.   Indoor recreational facilities not to exceed six thousand (6,000)
square feet.
         b.   Swimming facilities, indoor and outdoor.
   B.   Special Uses: Other special uses may be granted for classes A, B, C,
and D as provided by the county board. These may include, but are not limited
to:
      1.   Marinas.
      2.   Miniature golf or regulation golf courses.
      3.   Snack shops.
      4.   Stables or corrals.
      5.   Theaters.
   C.   Structural Requirements: All service buildings, recreational buildings,
and accessory use buildings shall be constructed to meet the Grundy County
building code. "Recreational vehicles", as defined in chapter 16,
"Definitions", of this title, shall not be used for accessory purposes in
connection with the park or campground.
   D.   Signs: Commercial uses supplying foods or services for the exclusive
use of campers and/or daily users may have signs for identification purposes
only. Signs or advertising must not be visible from outside the park, and signs
may be restricted in size by the land use department. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-11-5: RECREATIONAL AREAS:
In all campgrounds, there shall be one or more recreational areas which shall
be easily accessible to all campers and/or picnickers. Recreational areas shall
be so located as to be free of traffic hazards and should, where the topography
permits, be centrally located. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-11-6: STREET SYSTEM, PARKING, AND PEDESTRIAN ACCESS:
   A.   Street System:
      1.   All recreational vehicle parks shall be provided with safe and
convenient vehicular access from abutting streets or roads to each lot. Such
access shall be provided by streets, driveways, or other means. No on street
parking shall be allowed.
      2.   All recreational vehicle parks shall be provided with safe and
convenient vehicular access from an improved public street or road. It shall be
the responsibility of the applicant to provide the necessary access in all
cases where there is no existing improved street or road connecting the
recreational vehicle park site with an improved existing public street or road.
The county highway department shall approve all access and entrance locations
and improvements before the issuance of a permit.
      3.   Entrances to recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds shall be
designed to minimize congestion and hazards and allow free movement of traffic
on adjacent streets. All park entrance streets shall be a minimum of twenty
four feet (24') in width to their first point of intersection with a minor park
street and have a six inch (6") gravel base.
      4.   Collector streets shall have a minimum roadway of not less than
twenty feet (20') in width with a dust controlled surface which will include a
six inch (6") gravel base.
      5.   Minor streets shall have a minimum width roadway of not less than
eighteen feet (18').
   B.   Off Street Parking: Off street parking areas shall be provided for the
use of campers and daily users. Parking spaces shall be provided for not less
than 2.25 cars per recreational vehicle lot. Required parking spaces may
include one car space on a recreational vehicle lot and, in addition, shall
include a sufficient number of parking spaces off street to bring the total
number of parking spaces up to the required 2.25 car spaces per lot. Each
parking space shall be not less than ten feet (10') wide and twenty feet (20')
deep and shall be surfaced for its entire area with a dust palliate.
   C.   Pedestrian Access: All parks shall be provided with safe, convenient
pedestrian access of adequate width for intended use between individual lots,
the park streets and all service buildings and accessory facilities provided
for campers. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-11-7: INDIVIDUAL SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All recreational vehicles and tents shall not be located along park
boundaries so as to cause an adverse impact to adjoining properties. A fifty
foot (50') setback or greater shall be imposed with a reasonable increase in
plantings and/or berms which shall be required in order to lessen the impact to
adjoining properties affected.
   B.   All recreational vehicles and tents shall be located at least ten feet
(10') from a minor street and twenty five feet (25') from a collector street or
entrance street.
   C.   All recreational vehicles and tents shall be located at least thirty
feet (30') from a body of water.
   D.   Recreational vehicles and accessory structures must be separated from
one another by at least ten feet (10') in all directions. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-11-8: ENVIRONMENTAL, OPEN SPACE, AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Requirements: Conditions of soil, groundwater level, drainage,
and topography shall not create hazards to the property or the health, safety,
or welfare of the occupants. The site shall not be exposed to objectionable
smoke, noise, odors, or other adverse influences, and no portion subject to
flooding, subsidence, or erosion shall be used for any purpose which would
expose persons or property to hazards.
   B.   Screening And Barriers:
      1.   The park or campground must be screened from nearby agricultural
uses by a vegetative buffer. The width of the buffer should vary in proportion
to the maximum campground or park population up to a maximum of three hundred
feet (300') and, depending upon the site specific relationship with adjacent
contiguous development, the buffer may vary.
      2.   The periphery of the park or campground, except at designated access
roads, must be completely enclosed by a barrier or other enclosure which will
not permit people or farm animals to pass through it.
      3.   Adequate screening and/or fencing shall be provided along the
boundaries and public roads adjoining the site.
   C.   Soil And Ground Cover Regulations: Exposed ground surfaces in all parts
of every campground shall be covered with stone screening or other solid
material or protected with a vegetative growth that is capable of preventing
soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable dust, except pathways and
baseball diamond areas, depending upon the site specific nature of the area and
upon the review of the county board. Compliance with section
8-4-5 of this title, is required.
   D.   Site Drainage; Preservation Of Waters And Natural Features:
      1.   Site Drainage And Slopes:
         a.   The ground surface in all parts of every recreational vehicle
park or campground shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface water in a
safe, efficient manner.
         b.   Stormwater runoff shall be limited to the rate which would occur
under natural conditions.
         c.   Areas with slopes greater than fifteen percent (15%) are to be
retained in permanent open space.
      2.   Floodplain Areas: All lands classified as floodplain shall remain in
permanent open space.
      3.   Forests: No more than twenty percent (20%) of any forest shall be
cleared or developed, and the remaining eighty percent (80%) shall be retained
in permanent open space unless the county soil and water conservation service
reviews and recommends more than twenty percent (20%) of the forest area to be
cleared.
      4.   Waterways And Wetlands:
         a.   All ponds, wetlands, and watercourses shall be left in permanent
open space, and no dredging, filling, or diversion of water shall be permitted.
         b.   All ponds, wetlands, and watercourses are to be protected from
erosion and sedimentation in accordance with section
8-4-5 of this title.
      5.   Scenic View Protected: Scenic views from public highways or
adjoining lands must be maintained.
   E.   Bulk Requirements:
      1.   Size Of Park Or Campground: The size of each recreational vehicle
park or campground shall be regulated according to the following classes:
 
Class A 500 acres
Class B 300 - 500 acres
Class C 100 - 300 acres
Class D 25 - 100 acres
Class E 10 - 25 acres
Class F 5 - 10 acres
Class G 3 - 5 acres
 
      2.   Lot Area: Every RV or tent shall be located on a lot having a
minimum area of one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet, except for a
recreational vehicle with a gross floor area of more than three hundred twenty
(320) square feet; then the minimum lot area is six thousand (6,000) square
feet.
      3.   Required Separation Of Vehicles And Structures: Recreational
vehicles shall be separated from neighboring units and from any buildings or
structures by at least ten feet (10') which shall be maintained unobstructed.
Any accessory buildings shall be separated from RVs, tents, and all other
buildings or structures by at least twenty feet (20') and shall be located no
closer than ten feet (10') from any lot line.
      4.   Density: Density shall vary according to classes and shall be based
on total acreage minus the acreage of any body of water larger than one hundred
twelve (112) acres.
 
Class A An overall density of 6 lots per acre
Class B An overall density of 7 lots per acre
Class C An overall density of 8 lots per acre
Class D An overall density of 8 lots per acre
Class E An overall density of 9 lots per acre
Class F An overall density of 9 lots per acre
Class G An overall density of 10 lots per acre
 
      5.   Recreational Areas: A certain percentage of the gross acreage of a
recreational vehicle park or campground shall be provided for recreational use,
generally provided in centralized locations or in areas with natural
recreational amenities and shall include suitable landscaping. Requirements for
recreational areas vary according to classes and, for computation, all water
would be included in the percent of gross acreage.
 
Class A 50 percent of the gross acreage shall be provided
Class B 45 percent of the gross acreage shall be provided
Class C 40 percent of the gross acreage shall be provided
Class D 35 percent of the gross acreage shall be provided
Class E 30 percent of the gross acreage shall be provided
Class F 25 percent of the gross acreage shall be provided
Class G 25 percent of the gross acreage shall be provided
 
   F.   Primitive/Group Camping: Primitive/group camping may be permitted for
some classes of recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds. Group camping areas
must be identified as such on the plot plan in the application for permit and
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Group camping areas shall contain at least one acre in area.
      2.   Group camping shall contain at least one toilet facility
conveniently located.
      3.   Group camping areas shall not contain more than thirty (30) RVs and/
or tents.
      4.   Group camping shall not be permitted within seventy five feet (75')
of any park boundary.
      5.   Primitive/group camping shall be allowed in designated areas.
   G.   Daily Use:
      1.   Daily use of the recreational vehicle or campground for classes D,
E, F, and G are subject to the following restrictions:
         a.   Daily use is limited to guests or visitors of registered campers
only.
         b.   Daily users must register with the park management.
      2.   Daily use for class C is subject to the following restrictions:
         a.   Campers are permitted to have four (4) guests daily, provided the
daily users register as such with the park management.
         b.   Picnicking is permitted as a daily use until sundown. Picnickers
must register as daily users with the park management.
      3.   Daily use for classes A and B is subject to the following
restrictions:
         a.   All daily users must register as such with the park management.
         b.   The total number of users registered at any point in time cannot
exceed the number of permitted lots for that park or campground.
   H.   Minimum Development For Occupancy: For classes A, B, and C, the minimum
number of spaces completed and ready for occupancy before first occupancy is
permitted shall be twenty percent (20%) of the total spaces proposed to be
developed. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-11-9: FIRES:
   A.   Fires will be permitted only in facilities which have been provided for
such purposes or where open fires are allowed.
   B.   Fireplaces, fire pits, charcoal braziers, wood burning stoves, or other
cooking facilities shall be located, constructed, maintained, and used to
minimize fire hazard and smoke nuisance in the campground and the neighboring
properties.
   C.   No fire shall be abandoned, left unattended, or allowed to become a
hazard to trees, vegetation, camping equipment, or adjacent campsites.
   D.   Fires shall be completely extinguished before the campsite is vacated.
   E.   No fuel shall be used and no material burned which emits dense smoke or
objectionable odors. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-11-10: RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARK MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions; Supervision: The person to whom a permit
for a recreational vehicle park or campground is issued shall operate the park
in compliance with this chapter and shall provide adequate supervision to
maintain the park, its facilities, and equipment in good repair and in a clean,
sanitary condition.
   B.   Information To Registrant: The park management shall give to each park
registrant a copy of this section and section
8-11-11, "Responsibilities Of Park Users", of this chapter, for his or her
inspection and may offer other applicable provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Register Kept: The park management shall maintain a register containing
the names, addresses, make of car, and license plate number of all campers and
daily users. Such register shall be available to any authorized person
inspecting the park.
   D.   Noise Control: The park management shall be responsible for controlling
noise within the park to levels which do not exceed the state EPA rules and
regulations. Quiet time shall be observed from eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. to
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   E.   Pets: The park management shall adopt and enforce regulations
prohibiting campers' and daily users' pets from running at large, committing a
nuisance, or otherwise disturbing other campers or residents in the county.
   F.   Telephone Services: The park management shall provide one public
telephone for each four hundred (400) lots or portion thereof. Individual
camper telephone or mail service shall be prohibited.
   G.   Lease Or Rental Of Vehicles Or Tents Prohibited: The park management
shall not offer for lease or rent any recreational vehicle or tent. (Ord. 10-
001, 1-12-2010)
   H.   Restrictions On Use Of Vehicles Or Tents:
      1.   No RV or tent shall be used for business purposes.
      2.   No RV or tent shall be used as a permanent place of abode or
dwelling. Continuous occupancy is permitted for a maximum duration of time from
April 1 to November 1. (Ord. 2012-030, 9-11-2012)
8-11-11: RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARK USERS:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions; Clean, Sanitary Conditions: The camper or
picnicker shall comply with all applicable requirements of this chapter and
shall maintain his lot, its facilities, and equipment in good repair and in a
clean and sanitary condition.
   B.   Proper Installation Of Equipment And Utility Connections: The camper
shall be responsible for proper placement of his recreational vehicle on its
stand or his tent in its proper location and proper installation of any utility
connections in accordance with the instructions of the park management.
   C.   Pets: Pets, if permitted in the park, shall be prohibited from running
at large or committing any nuisance.
   D.   Garbage And Refuse: The camper or picnicker shall store and dispose of
all his refuse and garbage in a clean, sanitary, and safe manner and in
containers. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-11-12: ACCESS FOR REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
It shall be the duty of every camper or picnicker in the park to give the owner
thereof or his agent or employee access to any part of such recreational
vehicle park at reasonable times for the purpose of making such repairs or
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with this chapter and to
facilitate inspections. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-11-13: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspection Authorized: The zoning officer is hereby authorized to make
such inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with
this chapter.
   B.   Entry Powers:
      1.   The zoning officer shall have the power to enter at reasonable times
upon any private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and
investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this chapter.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the park management to give the zoning
officer free access to all lots and other areas at reasonable times for the
purpose of inspection.
   C.   Inspection Of Register: The zoning officer shall have the power to
inspect the register containing a record of all campers and picnickers of the
park. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
CHAPTER 12
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES, USES, AND LAND
SECTION:
8-12-1: Purpose
8-12-2: Continuation Of Nonconformities
8-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation of nonconforming
uses, buildings, and structures, and to specify those circumstances and
conditions under which those nonconforming buildings, structures, and uses may
be continued. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-12-2: CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMITIES:
Any building, structure, or use which existed lawfully at the effective date
hereof and which becomes nonconforming upon the effective date hereof or any
subsequent amendment hereto may be continued only in accordance with the
following regulations:
   A.   Repairs And Alterations: Ordinary repairs and alterations may be made
to a nonconforming building or structure provided that no structural
alterations shall be made in or to such building or structure, except those
required by law, or except to make the building or structure and use thereof
conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located. Ordinary
repairs and alterations shall be determined by the zoning officer and shall
include, among other things, the replacement of storage tanks where the safety
of operation of the installation requires such replacement.
   B.   Additions And Enlargements:
      1.   A nonconforming building or structure shall not be added to or
enlarged in any manner unless such nonconforming building or structure and use
thereof, including all additions and enlargements thereto is made to conform to
all the regulations of the district in which it is located.
      2.   A nonconforming building or structure which is nonconforming only as
to bulk may be added to or enlarged, provided such additions or enlargements
conform to all regulations of the district in which it is located.
   C.   Moving Buildings Or Structures: No nonconforming building or structure,
shall be moved in whole or in part to any other location unless every portion
of such building or structure, and the use thereof, are made to conform to all
regulations of the district in which the moved building is to be located.
   D.   Restoration Of Damaged Buildings Or Structures: A nonconforming
building or structure or portion thereof, which is destroyed or damaged by fire
or other casualty or act of nature to the extent that the cost of restoration
to the condition in which it was before the occurrence will exceed sixty
percent (60%) of the total cost of reconstructing the building or structure,
shall not be restored unless said building or structure and the use thereof
shall conform to all regulations of the district in which it is located except
that an existing nonconforming residential use and building in any district is
permitted to be restored within one year to the condition in which it was
before destruction, and it must conform to all other regulations of the
district in which it is located. However, if the damage is less than sixty
percent (60%) of the cost of reconstructing the building or structure, no
repairs or restoration shall be made unless such work is started within one
year from the date of partial destruction.
   E.   Change Of Use: The nonconforming use of a building or structure, or
portion thereof, may be changed to a use permitted in the district in which the
building or structure is located; however, once a use is changed to a
conforming use, such building or structure shall not thereafter be used for a
nonconforming use.
   F.   Nonconforming Use Of Conforming Buildings Or Structures: The existing
nonconforming use of a part or all of a conforming building or structure may be
continued subject to the following provisions:
      1.   The nonconforming use of a part of such building or structure shall
not be expanded or extended into any other portion of such building or
structure nor changed to any other nonconforming use.
      2.   If a nonconforming use of such a building or structure is
discontinued or abandoned for a period of six (6) consecutive months, it shall
not be renewed, and any subsequent use of such building or structure shall
conform to the use regulations of the district in which the premises are
located.
      3.   Any lawful nonconforming use in a conforming building or structure
existing in a residential district on the effective date hereof, or any
amendments hereto, shall be entirely discontinued within ten (10) years from
the effective date hereof, or any amendments hereto.
   G.   Nonconforming Use Of Land: The nonconforming use of land not involving
a building or structure, or in connection with which any building or structure
thereon is incidental or accessory to the principal use of land, or land used
for parking or storing one or more trailers may be continued subject to the
following provisions:
      1.   Such nonconforming use of land shall not be expanded or extended
beyond the area it occupied on the effective date hereof, or changed to another
nonconforming use, and no additional trailers shall be brought onto such
nonconforming use of land, except that any trailer existing on said land on the
effective date hereof may be replaced.
      2.   If such a nonconforming use of land is discontinued or abandoned for
a period of six (6) consecutive months, it shall not thereafter be renewed, and
any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the regulations of the
district in which the land is located.
      3.   Where the nonconforming use of land is accessory to the
nonconforming use of a building or structure, it shall be discontinued on the
same date as the nonconforming use of the building or structure.
   H.   Conversion To Special Use: Any legally nonconforming building,
structure, or use may be converted to a special use as authorized by chapter 2,
"Permitted Uses", of this title. This conversion may occur only when it is
shown that the nonconforming building, structure, or use is providing a
particular service to the residents of the county and that the use is not
detrimental to the county as whole or to adjacent properties. (Ord. 10-001, 1-
12-2010)
CHAPTER 13
ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES
SECTION:
8-13-1: Purpose
8-13-2: Summary Of Responsibility
8-13-3: Responsible County Bodies
8-13-3-1: County Board
8-13-3-2: Planning And Zoning Committee
8-13-3-3: Regional Planning Commission (Rep. by Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
8-13-3-4: Zoning Board Of Appeals
8-13-3-5: County Staff
8-13-4: External Bodies
8-13-4-1: Municipalities
8-13-4-2: Township Boards Of Trustees
8-13-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes the responsibilities of decision making and
administrative bodies identified by this title. This chapter does not attempt
to recite all responsibilities granted under the State Enabling Act, only those
required by this title. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-13-2: SUMMARY OF RESPONSIBILITY:
The responsibility for major actions required by this title is set forth in
this chapter. The following
table 8-13-2, "Procedural Responsibilities", of this section, indicates
responsibility. A group may have more than one responsibility, such as holding
a public hearing in addition to taking action. Further, regardless of the
appeal notation, all decisions may be appealed to the courts in accordance with
State and Federal law.
TABLE 8-13-2
PROCEDURAL RESPONSIBILITIES
Type Of Action County Board Land Use Committee Zoning Board Of Appeals Staff
Type Of Action         County Board Land Use Committee Zoning Board Of Staff
                                                       Appeals
Discretionary:                                                       
UDO text amendment     D            R                  H, R            R
Zoning map amendment   D            R                  H, R            R
Special use            D            R                  H, R            R
Zoning variance        -            -                  H, D            R
Ministerial:                                                         
Subdivision plat       D            R                  R               R
review
Site development       -            -                  -               D
permit
Variation - plat/land  D            R                  R               R
development
Administrative review                                                
permit:
Limited use            -            -                  A               D
Certificate of         -            -                  A               D
compliance
Certificate of         -            -                  A               D
occupancy
Floodplain development -            -                  A               D
permit
Appeals:                                                             
Interpretation         -            -                  A               D
Appeal                 -            -                  H, D            R
 
R = The body makes recommendations to the decision makers.
H = The body must hold a public hearing.
D = The body makes the final decision.
A = The body hears an appeal to the decision.
(Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
8-13-3: RESPONSIBLE COUNTY BODIES:
8-13-3-1: COUNTY BOARD:
   A.   General: The County Board shall have all powers conferred upon it by
Illinois Statutes and the Grundy County Charter. With respect to development
approval and amendments to this title and the County's comprehensive plan, the
County Board retains and shall exercise the powers set out in this section.
   B.   Approvals: The County Board shall decide on the following applications
after a public hearing is held and after reports and recommendations are
provided by the County staff, Zoning Board of Appeals and the Land Use
Committee:
      1.   Amendments to the text and maps within the comprehensive plan.
      2.   Text amendments to this title.
      3.   Amendments to the official zoning map.
      4.   Special use permit approvals.
   C.   Staff: The County Board shall hire staff when necessary and shall
designate the Director, Land Use Department.
   D.   Appointments: The County Board shall appoint the Zoning Board of
Appeals members. (Ord. 2018-12, 6-12-2018)
8-13-3-2: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMITTEE:
In exercising its powers, the County Board may under its own rules and
regulations establish a Planning and Zoning Committee, also referred to as the
"P&Z Committee", which is made up of members of the County Board appointed by
the Chairman. It shall act as a facilitator to the full County Board in all
planning and development related matters.
   A.   Approval Of Actions: The P&Z Committee shall review and recommend
actions to the County Board for the following approval process functions:
      1.   UDO text amendment.
      2.   Zoning map amendment.
      3.   Special use approval.
      4.   Major subdivision preliminary and final plat approval.
      5.   Minor subdivision final plat approval.
   B.   Staff Oversight: It shall serve as the Oversight Committee of the
Building and Zoning, and Planning Offices of the Land Use Department.
   C.   Fee Schedules: It shall recommend fee schedule changes to the County
Board.
   D.   Comprehensive Plan: After receiving the recommended comprehensive plan
from the Planning Commission, the P&Z Committee shall place the document on
file and recommend the resolution for adoption by the County Board. (Ord. 10-
001, 1-12-2010)
8-13-3-3: REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION:
(Rep. by Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
8-13-3-4: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
The Grundy County Zoning Board of Appeals shall be maintained in accordance
with Illinois Statutes. It may also be referred to as the "Zoning Board".
   A.   Membership And Compensation: The Grundy County Zoning Board of Appeals
shall consist of seven (7) members appointed by the Chairman of the County
Board subject to confirmation by a majority of the full County Board.
      1.   Residency: All members shall be residents of separate townships at
the time of their respective appointments.
      2.   Compensation: Members of the Zoning Board may receive compensation
in an amount that is established by the County Board.
   B.   Terms:
      1.   Each member shall serve a five (5) year term and may be reappointed.
These terms shall be staggered so that one member's term shall expire each
year.
      2.   Vacancies occurring other than through the expiration of terms shall
be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original
appointment.
      3.   Members of the Zoning Board who are already seated as of the
effective date hereof shall continue to serve out their respective terms.
   C.   Removals: The Chairman of the County Board shall have the power to
remove any member of the Zoning Board for cause, after a public hearing.
   D.   Officers:
      1.   One of the members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
designated by the County Board as Chairman at the time of his/her appointment.
      2.   In the case of a vacancy, the Chairman of the County Board shall
designate a new Chairman, which shall be confirmed by a majority vote of the
County Board present and voting on the matter.
   E.   Rules:
      1.   All meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held at the
call of the Chairman and at such times and places within the County as the
Zoning Board of Appeals may determine.
      2.   All meetings shall be open to the public.
      3.   The Zoning Board, or designated staff member, shall keep minutes of
its examinations, proceedings, and other official business that indicate the
vote of each member upon every question or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact.
      4.   The Chairman, or in his/her absence the Vice Chairman, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   F.   Powers And Duties: The Zoning Board shall have the following authority:
      1.   Ordinance Amendments: The Zoning Board shall hear applications for
amendments to this title, as provided for in sections
8-14-8, "Ordinance Text Amendments", and
8-14-9, "Map Amendments", of this title, report its findings and
recommendations to the County Board.
      2.   Variances: The Zoning Board shall hear and approve or deny
applications for variances to the density, bulk, yard, and height provisions of
this title, as provided in section
8-14-7, "Variances", of this title.
      3.   Special Use Permits: The Zoning Board shall hear applications for
special use approvals and report its findings and recommendations to the County
Board, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-14-6, "Special Use Permits", of this title.
      4.   Appeals: The Zoning Board shall also hear and decide appeals from
and review any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative official charged with the enforcement of this title.
      5.   Subdivisions: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall review the
preliminary and final plats of major or minor subdivisions or replats, shall
recommend approval or disapproval to the Land Use Committee and shall provide a
statement of reasons supporting its recommendation. (Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
8-13-3-5: COUNTY STAFF:
   A.   Director, Land Use Department:
      1.   Powers And Duties: The Land Use Department Director, also referred
to as "Director", shall:
         a.   Administer and enforce, or share in the administration and
enforcement of, the provisions of this title.
         b.   Oversee the policies and practices of the Building and Zoning,
Planning and Environmental and Resource Conservation Offices of the Land Use
Department. Supervisory staff of these offices shall report to the Director.
         c.   Have the authority to enter property to make inspections, as
required to carry out necessary administration and enforcement.
         d.   Interpret and enforce the County comprehensive plan and confer
with local authorities, land planners, and development specialists on Best
County Land Use Practices.
         e.   Serve as the Plat Officer and may delegate these duties to
department staff when deemed necessary.
      2.   Recommendations: The Director shall provide a recommendation with
regard to all discretionary approvals.
      3.   Approvals: The Director shall overview the processes of the
following types of applications:
         a.   Zoning clearance.
         b.   Special use permits.
         c.   Development plans.
         d.   Administrative variances.
   B.   Building And Zoning Officer: A staff member of the Land Use Department,
also referred to as "Zoning Officer" or "Building Officer", and/or designee,
may share in the administration and enforcement of all of the chapters of this
title.
      1.   Powers And Duties: The Zoning Officer shall:
         a.   Have the authority to grant or deny building permits and/or
occupancy permits and to enter property to make inspections necessary for the
administration and enforcement of this title.
         b.   Act in accordance with the decisions of the County Board, Land
Use Committee and Zoning Board of Appeals.
         c.   Review and prepare cases for minor subdivisions.
         d.   Supervise all aspects of building construction, limited and
special use compliance, preparation of zoning map updates.
         e.   Provide input into UDO text amendments and adjustments to
administrative procedures.
         f.   Report and confer with the Director, as needed.
      2.   Approvals: The Zoning Officer shall approve or deny building permits
and other County regulations.
   C.   Development Review Committee:
      1.   Committee Established: A Development Review Committee is
established, which is comprised of the following members:
         a.   Land Use Department Director.
         b.   County Highway Engineer.
         c.   Plats Review Engineer (consultant).
         d.   Director of Environmental Health.
   D.   Floodplain Administrator:
      1.   Appointment: The Floodplain Administrator is the Zoning Officer and
Review Engineer.
      2.   Powers And Duties: The Floodplain Administrator shall administer
section
8-4-5 of this title. (Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
8-13-4: EXTERNAL BODIES:
8-13-4-1: MUNICIPALITIES:
Any municipality within the County that has adopted a municipal zoning
ordinance shall be notified of an application for a zoning map amendment,
special use approval, variance, or subdivision if the land affected is located
within 1.5 miles of its corporate limits.
   A.   Public Hearing Participation: A designated representative of the
affected municipality may attend the scheduled public hearing and provide a
written statement and testimony regarding the municipality's position regarding
the proposed action.
   B.   Zoning Map Amendments: If the proposed action is a zoning map
amendment, the affected municipality's written protest shall have the effect of
increasing the required vote of approval by the County Board from a simple
majority to a three-fourths (3/4) majority. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-13-4-2: TOWNSHIP BOARDS OF TRUSTEES:
If a township located within the County has a Planning Commission and the
Planning Commission objects to a proposed rezoning of property within that
township or any UDO text amendment, the township Board of Trustees may submit a
written protest of the proposed action. The effect of this protest shall be to
increase the required vote of approval by the County Board from a simple
majority to a three-fourths (3/4) majority. (Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
CHAPTER 14
PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
8-14-1: Purpose
8-14-2: General Procedures
8-14-2-1: Preapplication Conference
8-14-2-2: Applications
8-14-2-3: Application Completeness Review
8-14-2-4: Application Review
8-14-2-5: Notice Of Public Hearings
8-14-2-6: Public Hearings
8-14-2-7: Actions By Decision Making Bodies
8-14-2-8: Effect Of Approval
8-14-3: Zoning Certificates
8-14-3-1: Certificate Of Zoning Compliance
8-14-3-2: Certificate Of Occupancy
8-14-3-3: Temporary Use Permit
8-14-4: Site Development Permit
8-14-5: Administrative Review
8-14-6: Special Use Permits
8-14-7: Variances
8-14-8: Ordinance Text Amendments
8-14-9: Map Amendments
8-14-9-1: Agricultural Residential (AR) District Map Amendment
8-14-9-2: Planned Residential (PR) District Map Amendment
8-14-9-3: Residential (R) District Map Amendment
8-14-9-4: Commercial General (CG) District Map Amendment
8-14-9-5: Commercial Interchange (CI) District Map Amendment
8-14-9-6: Industrial (I) District Map Amendment
8-14-10: Subdivision Plat Procedures
8-14-10-1: Concept Plan
8-14-10-2: Minor Subdivisions
8-14-10-3: Major Subdivisions
8-14-10-4: Required Certificates
8-14-10-5: Recording
8-14-11: Interpretations
8-14-12: Appeals
8-14-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes the procedures for all approvals, administrative
reviews, and administrative relief required by this unified development
ordinance. It also provides a guide to the steps of application review and
development requests. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-2: GENERAL PROCEDURES:
8-14-2-1: PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE:
A preapplication conference is mandatory prior to submitting certain
applications. The purpose of the preapplication conference is to familiarize
the applicant with any county concerns and with this title's applicable
provisions. Also, this conference permits the department to assess the proposal
and identify any problems or concerns.
   A.   Initiation: An applicant shall request a date for the preapplication
conference with the department. The request shall be accompanied by a
description of the character, location, and magnitude of the proposed
development and the type of approval sought. If a concept plan is required,
then it should be brought to the preapplication conference.
   B.   Scheduling: After receiving the request for a preapplication
conference, the department shall schedule and hold the preapplication
conference. The department shall notify the applicant of the time, date, and
place of the preapplication conference.
   C.   Conference Determinations: At the preapplication conference, the
department shall review the material, make recommendations, and indicate
concerns, problems, or other factors the applicant should consider in pursuing
the proposal.
   D.   Written Summary: The department shall mail to the applicant a written
summary of the preapplication conference and provide a copy of the planning and
zoning calendar that lists applicable meeting times. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-2-2: APPLICATIONS:
Applications shall be submitted to the department, along with the corresponding
application fee on a form approved by the department.
   A.   Initiation: Unless otherwise indicated in this chapter, applications
shall be submitted by the owner, an authorized agent, or any other person
having a contractual interest in the land for which the use is proposed.
   B.   Consent To Inspection: Accompanying any application that would directly
authorize land disturbance or construction shall be a signed statement of the
applicant's consent to inspection of the premises by department staff, in order
to ensure compliance with this title and conditions of approval. The applicant
shall give a right of reasonable access to view, enter, and inspect the
property at reasonable times until a certificate of occupancy (or its
equivalent) is issued. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-2-3: APPLICATION COMPLETENESS REVIEW:
The department shall determine if the application is sufficient and includes
all data required or necessary to evaluate the application.
   A.   Notice To Applicant:
      1.   If the department determines the application is not sufficient, a
written notice shall be mailed to the applicant specifying deficiencies.
      2.   When the application is determined sufficient, the department shall
notify the applicant and begin the requisite reviews by forwarding the material
to the appropriate recommending body or other staff, as appropriate. If a
public hearing is required, the date shall be set to hear the application and
the applicant notified in writing.
   B.   Additional Information: Nothing in this section shall limit the
department's authority to require additional information deemed reasonably
necessary following the determination that the application is sufficient. At
any time during the review process, the department may require the applicant to
provide additional information to thoroughly evaluate the application.
   C.   Rejection Of Successive Applications: A reapplication involving any
land area for which a map amendment was denied within the prior twelve (12)
months shall not be accepted by staff. An applicant who believes the intended
amendment has merit may ask the county board to authorize the acceptance.
However, the county board shall not authorize reapplication unless it finds
there are changed circumstances or unless it finds that the new application
addresses all the concerns that led to the earlier denial. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-14-2-4: APPLICATION REVIEW:
   A.   Acceptance Of Complete Application: Upon receiving a complete
application, the department shall forward it to the applicable body. As
appropriate, the department shall also provide copies of the application to
county, school, municipal, and state agencies for review and comment. The
department shall evaluate the comments of reviewing agencies regarding the
application.
   B.   Notice To Applicant: The department shall notify the applicant as to
when it will review the plan. All department and reviewing agency comments
shall accompany the notification.
   C.   Meetings: The department shall conduct meetings as needed with county
and other reviewing agencies to review the application. The applicant shall be
given an opportunity to respond to the comments on the plan.
   D.   Recommendations: Upon completion of the application review, the
department shall prepare a written recommendation regarding the application.
Such recommendation shall be sent to the recommending body(ies). A copy shall
also be provided to the applicant. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-2-5: NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARINGS:
When a public hearing is required pursuant to this title, the department shall
be responsible for scheduling the hearing and the applicant responsible for
ensuring notice is properly provided.
   A.   Notice In Newspaper: Application shall be advertised in the legal
notice section of a newspaper of general circulation in the township or road
district in which the subject property is situated, as selected by the county
board. Notice shall appear once at least fifteen (15) but not more than thirty
(30) calendar days prior to the public hearing date and shall contain the
following information:
      1.   The type of application sought, i.e., special use, variance, map
amendment, or text amendment.
      2.   A short description of the proposed action requested.
      3.   A legal description of the parcel, the approximate street location
or address, where possible, and a map of the area. If no street address is
available, there shall be a reference to any well known landmark, highway,
road, or intersection.
      4.   The name of the applicant and a statement indicating whether the
petitioner or applicant is acting for himself or herself or as an agent, alter
ego, or representative of a principal and the name and address of the
principal.
         a.   If the applicant is a corporation, the correct names and
addresses of all officers and directors of the corporation and of all
stockholders or shareholders owning any interest in excess of twenty percent
(20%) of all of the outstanding stock or shares of the corporation.
         b.   If the applicant is a business or entity doing business under an
assumed name, the name and residence of all actual owners of the business or
entity.
         c.   If the applicant is a partnership, joint venture, syndicate, or
an unincorporated voluntary association; the names and addresses of all
partners or members of the partnership, joint venture, syndicate, or
unincorporated voluntary association.
      5.   The location, address, date, and time of the public hearing.
      6.   Information on where full details of the application may be
obtained, including the location, hours, and telephone number.
The applicant will be responsible for the legal notices to be published.
   B.   Written Notice: The applicant shall provide written notice by certified
mail to all owners of record of all residential property adjacent to the
exterior boundary and within five hundred feet (500') of the subject property
at least fifteen (15) but not more than thirty (30) calendar days prior to the
public hearing. The notice shall contain:
      1.   The name of the applicant and type of application sought, i.e.,
special use permit, variance, or map amendment.
      2.   Short description of the proposed action requested.
      3.   A legal description of the parcel, the approximate street location
or address, where possible, a map of the area, and the name of the person
seeking the application.
      4.   The location, address, date, and time of the public hearing.
      5.   Information on where full details of the application may be
obtained, including the location, hours, and phone number.
      6.   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the department with
postal proofs of delivery, certifying that the notices were mailed and
received. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-2-6: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
The following rules apply to the conduct of hearings:
   A.   Appearance: Any party may appear at a public hearing, submit evidence,
and be heard. Any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
   B.   Organizations: If the party represents an organization, the body
conducting the hearing may request written evidence of that party's authority
to speak on behalf of the group in regard to the current matter.
   C.   Identification: Parties appearing at a public hearing shall identify
themselves and state their name, address, and similar information about any
organization they represent.
   D.   Expert Witnesses: Citizens, applicants, and the county have the right
to employ expert witnesses to represent them. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-2-7: ACTIONS BY DECISION MAKING BODIES:
   A.   General: After the close of a public hearing, the administrative body
conducting the hearing shall consider the application, relevant support
materials, staff report, and public testimony given at the public hearing. The
administrative body shall render a decision or recommendations, as appropriate,
either to approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the application based
on this title and the factual evidence presented. Administrative decisions
shall follow the same rules once a completed application is received.
   B.   Time Limits: Action shall be taken as promptly as possible in
consideration of the interests of the applicant and citizens.
   C.   Written Orders And Recommendations: All decisions or recommendations
shall be in writing and include the following:
      1.   A clear statement of specific findings of fact and the basis upon
which such facts were determined, with specific reference to this title's
relevant standards.
      2.   A clear statement of approval, approval with conditions, or
disapproval. Conditions may only be required by the county on special uses,
variances, or site plan approvals.
      3.   Any other information deemed necessary by the decision making body.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-2-8: EFFECT OF APPROVAL:
Approving any application shall be deemed to authorize only the particular use,
plan, or other specific activity for which the application was issued.
Approvals shall run with the particular land or, in some cases, with the
applicant for which approval is given, unless otherwise stated in that
approval. Exceptions are zoning text changes and land use interpretations,
which will generally apply to more than one parcel of land.
   A.   Time Limitations: Permitted time frames for an approval shall apply to
the applicant and any successive owner(s) of the property involved. Approval
times shall expire, and the approval shall become null and void at the times
indicated in
table 8-14-2-8, "Time Limitations And Extensions", of this section, if any of
the following occur:
      1.   A building permit has not been issued and construction has not
commenced to establish the use authorized in the approval of the application.
      2.   The use does not require a building permit and is not established,
ongoing, and in operation.
TABLE 8-14-2-8
TIME LIMITATIONS AND EXTENSIONS
 
Application Type                    Time Limitation (Months)
Special use                         121
Variance                            61
Site plan review in the PR district 24
Preliminary subdivision plat        12
Final subdivision plat              12
 
Note:
   1.    Unless specified otherwise in the special use permit or variance
approval. The approval may also specify periodic review, at which time the
approval could be terminated.
   B.   Approvals Not Subject To Time Limitations: Any approval not listed in
table 8-14-2-8, "Time Limitations And Extensions", of this section, shall not
expire upon a specified time limit. Such approvals shall continue in force
until superseded by an ordinance change or specific action that alters them.
   C.   Extensions: Upon written request, a onetime extension may be granted by
the decision making body for a period not to exceed the original approval
period for good cause shown.
      1.   The department shall notify all applicants of a pending expiration
two (2) months prior to that expiration date of the application.
      2.   No request for an extension shall be considered unless a written
application requesting the extension is submitted to the land use department no
later than one month prior to expiration.
      3.   Failure to submit an application for an extension within the time
limits established by this section shall result in the approval's expiration as
provided above.
   D.   Appeals: If there is an appeal or litigation during the time period
specified in subsection A of this section, the time limitation shall be
suspended until the appeal or litigation is complete. This section does not
apply if the litigation is for violation of this title. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-14-3: ZONING CERTIFICATES:
8-14-3-1: CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE:
A certificate of zoning compliance may also be issued to a property owner or
occupant as a means of validating conformity with this unified development
ordinance to a financial institution or any other unit of government.
   A.   Application: The applicant shall provide sufficient detail on the
proposed land use or improvements to enable the zoning officer to determine
that the proposed occupancy and intensity in use of the structure will comply
with the provisions of this unified development ordinance.
      1.   If the proposed parcel involves residential development, there must
be an accompanying title search that demonstrates the original date and
conditions associated with the split of that lot.
   B.   Approval: The zoning officer, within fifteen (15) working days
following receipt of a complete application, shall approve and authorize or
deny the issuance of a certificate of compliance.
      1.   If the application is denied, the zoning officer shall notify the
person signing the application, in writing, of the findings.
      2.   The applicant may, within twenty (20) working days, either
demonstrate that the application is in compliance or submit a revised
application that is in compliance. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-3-2: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
No new structure or change in use of an existing structure shall be occupied
until a certificate of occupancy is issued by the zoning officer. A certificate
of occupancy is normally issued after building construction or remodeling has
been completed and the structure has passed all required inspections.
   A.   Application:
      1.   New construction: The zoning officer shall automatically issue a
certificate of occupancy after all final inspections have successfully been
completed.
      2.   Change in use or intensity of an existing structure: The applicant
shall provide sufficient detail on the intended land use and configuration of
premises to enable the zoning officer to determine that the intended use,
parking, and other requirements of this title are being met.
   B.   Inspections: No occupancy permit for a change in use of an existing
structure shall be granted until an on site inspection has been conducted by
the zoning officer. The inspection shall be conducted to determine that the
intended occupancy is permitted under the provisions of this title and that the
building and site conforms to all district intensity, bulk, height, yard
requirements, parking, and sign standards.
   C.   Approval: The zoning officer shall approve and authorize or deny the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy within five (5) working days following
receipt of a complete application.
      1.   If the application is denied, the zoning officer shall notify the
applicant in writing of the findings.
      2.   In the event of a denial, the applicant may, within twenty (20)
working days, either:
         a.   Modify the improvements to bring them into compliance, or
         b.   Submit a revised application for the improvements that is in
compliance.
   D.   Effect: An approval shall be valid while the building, or portion of
the building, is occupied and there is no change in principal use, increase in
occupied space, intensification of activity, reduction in lot area, or
reduction in the number of required off street parking spaces.
   E.   Temporary Occupancy: Temporary occupancies shall comply with the Grundy
County building code. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-3-3: TEMPORARY USE PERMIT:
Uses listed as temporary uses in section
8-2-2-1, "
Table 8-2-2-1C, Temporary Uses", of this title, are allowed, subject to any
limitations specified in section
8-2-4, "Administrative Review Use Standards", of this title. A temporary use
permit may be issued, provided the use meets all other requirements of this
title for setback and parking and receives approval of proposed signs from the
zoning officer. Other specific requirements in section
8-2-6, "Temporary Uses", of this title, provide additional requirements such as
hours of operation, duration of the activity, and requirements of other county
agencies such as the sheriff and health department.
   A.   Application: The applicant shall provide sufficient detail on the
proposed activity or event to enable the zoning officer to determine compliance
with the provisions of this unified development ordinance.
   B.   Approval Criteria: All temporary uses shall be reviewed against the
criteria provided in section
8-2-6, "Temporary Uses", of this title.
   C.   Determination: The zoning officer shall make a determination whether to
approve, approve with conditions, or deny the permit within five (5) working
days after the date of application. Any applicant denied a permit by the zoning
officer shall be notified in writing of the reasons for the denial and of the
opportunity to appeal the denial to the zoning board of appeals.
   D.   Effect: If approved, such approval shall thereafter be valid for the
specified duration of the activity or event. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-4: SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
Except as otherwise provided in this title, no person shall commence or perform
any grading, stripping, excavating, or filling of land without having first
obtained a site development permit from the department.
   A.   Exemptions From Permit: A site development permit shall not be required
for any of the following activities. However, these activities are not exempt
for other permitting requirements.
      1.   Development of a site of less than 2.5 acres for commercial or
industrial use, provided that the person responsible for any such development
shall implement necessary erosion and sedimentation control measures to satisfy
the principles set forth in section
8-4-5 of this title.
      2.   Residential uses that do not require a site development permit
include:
         a.   Fencing;
         b.   Garages or carports, attached or detached;
         c.   Sheds and storage buildings for garden equipment and household
items; and
         d.   Terraces, patios, decks, and other accessory uses.
      3.   Excavation below final grade for the basement and footings of a
single-family residence and appurtenant structures on a site in excess of five
(5) acres for which a building permit has been issued by the county.
      4.   Agricultural use of land including the implementation of
conservation measures included in a farm conservation plan approved by the soil
and water conservation district, and including the construction of agricultural
structures.
   B.   Application: Application for a site development permit shall be made by
the owner of the property or his/her authorized agent to the department on a
form furnished for that purpose.
      1.   Each application shall include the following:
         a.   The name(s) and address(es) of the owner(s) or developer(s) of
the site.
         b.   Proof of land ownership and, if applicable, proof that a
developer or agent is acting with the owner's permission.
         c.   The name of any consulting firm retained by the applicant for the
project.
         d.   The name of the applicant's principal contact.
         e.   A filing fee, amount available from the land use department.
      2.   Each application shall include certification that any land clearing,
construction, or development involving the movement of earth shall be in
accordance with the plans approved upon issuance of the permit.
      3.   To ensure technical validity, all applications should be signed and
sealed by a licensed professional engineer.
   C.   Submission: Any applicant seeking approval of a site development permit
shall submit to the department five (5) copies of the submittal materials
specified in section
8-14-2, "General Procedures", of this chapter. The department shall declare the
application as complete or incomplete within fourteen (14) days. If complete,
the department shall forward copies to the development review committee.
   D.   Review: Each application for a site development permit shall be
reviewed and acted upon according to the following procedures:
      1.   The development review committee will review each application for a
site development permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of
this chapter and other applicable federal and state requirements.
      2.   The department shall also refer any application to the county soil
and water conservation district and/or any other local government or public
agency within whose jurisdiction the site is located for review and comment.
   E.   Approval:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days after receiving an application, the
department shall, in writing:
         a.   Approve the permit application if it is found to be in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter and issue the permit;
         b.   Approve the permit application subject to such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary to substantially secure the objectives of this
chapter and issue the permit subject to these conditions; or
         c.   Disapprove the permit application, indicating the deficiencies
and the procedure for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
   F.   Conditions Of Approval: No site development permit shall be issued for
an intended development site unless:
      1.   The development, including, but not limited to, subdivisions and
planned unit developments, has been approved by the county where applicable; or
      2.   Such permit is accompanied by or combined with a valid building
permit issued by the county; or
      3.   The proposed earthmoving is coordinated with any overall development
program previously approved by the county for the area in which the site is
situated.
   G.   Variances And Appeals:
      1.   In cases where strict compliance with the terms of this chapter
would result in particular hardship and practical difficulty, the applicant may
apply for a variance under the provisions of section
8-14-7, "Variances", of this chapter.
      2.   The decision of the department may be appealed in accordance with
the provisions of section
8-14-12, "Appeals", of this chapter.
   H.   Expiration Of Permit: Every site development permit shall expire and
become null and void if the work authorized by such permit has not been
commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days or is not completed by a date
specified in the permit. The department may, however, grant a reasonable
extension of time if written application is made before the expiration date of
the permit. Before this extension may be granted, the permittee must present
satisfactory evidence that unusual difficulties have prevented work being
commenced or completed within the one hundred eighty (180) day time limit.
   I.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit: The department may suspend or
revoke the site development permit in the event of the following circumstances:
      1.   The person holding the site development permit violates the terms of
the permit.
      2.   Site development is conducted in such a manner as to materially
adversely affect the health, welfare, or safety of persons residing or working
near the development site.
      3.   Site development is materially detrimental to the public welfare or
injurious to property or improvements in the neighborhood.
   J.   Stop Work Order: Suspension of a permit shall be by a written stop work
order issued by the department and delivered to the permittee or his/her agent
or the person performing the work. The stop work order shall be effective
immediately, shall state the specific violations cited, and shall state the
conditions under which work may be resumed. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-5: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
The department shall perform administrative use reviews, solely to determine
whether the uses listed in section
8-2-2-1, "Land Use Tables", of this title and any applicable standards
contained in section
8-2-4, "Administrative Review Use Standards", of this title, and any other
applicable section of this title will be met by the proposed action. If the
conditions have been satisfied, the criteria for approval shall be deemed met.
A report noting all conditions have been met shall be attached to the file on
the use's approval. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-6: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
There are other uses which may be necessary or desirable to allow in a given
district but which, on account of their potential influence upon neighboring
uses or public facilities, need to be carefully regulated with respect to
location or operation for the protection of the community. Such uses are
classified as "special uses". The inclusion of a special use provision in a
zoning district does not constitute an authorization that such use will be
approved. Rather, each proposed special use shall be evaluated by the
conditions set forth in this title and a determination if it is consistent with
the community character of the immediate vicinity of the parcel proposed for
development. A special use may incorporate additional standards that ensure
compatibility with the surrounding area. These additional standards may be
imposed through this title or as assigned during the approval process. Special
uses are approved by the County Board after a public hearing and
recommendations by the Zoning Board of Appeals, and the Land Use Committee.
   A.   Initiation Of Special Use Permit Approval: Any person, firm, or
corporation owning land, options to purchase land, or contract for purchase of
land in the County's unincorporated jurisdiction may apply for a special use
permit, provided that the intended special use is allowed within the zoning
district in which the subject property is situated.
   B.   Preapplication Conference: A preapplication conference, as specified in
section
8-14-2-1, "Preapplication Conference", of this chapter, is required.
   C.   Processing:
      1.   A special use permit application shall be filed with the Land Use
Department, which shall forward copies to the Land Use Committee, and Zoning
Board of Appeals.
      2.   The department shall schedule a public hearing by the Zoning Board
of Appeals, to be held within ninety (90) days of receipt of a complete
application.
   D.   Department Review: The department shall review the special use permit
application and provide a written analysis to the Land Use Committee, and
Zoning Board of Appeals. (Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
   E.   Planning Commission Workshop: (Rep. by Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
   F.   Zoning Board Of Appeals Meeting: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall
complete the review and make a recommendation for approval or denial at a
regularly scheduled meeting. The Zoning Board of Appeals' recommendation shall
then be forwarded by the department to the Land Use Committee. (Ord. 2018-012,
6-12-2018)
   G.   Planning And Zoning Committee: The Planning and Zoning Committee shall
review the application and recommend to the County Board that it be placed on
file in its records.
   H.   County Board: The County Board shall place the application on file.
   I.   Zoning Board Of Appeals Public Hearing:
      1.   The applicant shall publish notification of the public hearing. The
applicant shall provide direct mail notification to property owners and
abutting property owners within five hundred feet (500'), in accordance with
subsections
8-14-2-5A and B of this chapter, at least fifteen (15), but no more than thirty
(30), calendar days before the date of the public hearing before the Zoning
Board of Appeals. The applicant shall provide proof of notification to the Land
Use Department.
      2.   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall conduct a public hearing on the
proposed special use permit in accordance with section
8-14-2-6, "Public Hearings", of this chapter.
   J.   Recommendation Of The Zoning Board Of Appeals: After closure of the
public hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall submit a report of its
findings and recommendations to the Planning and Zoning Committee.
      1.   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall base its recommendations on the
provisions of section
8-2-5, "Special Use Standards", of this title, that apply to the intended
special use and the district in which it is proposed.
      2.   In making its recommendation, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall also
consider the health, safety, general welfare, neighboring uses, influence on
road and traffic conditions, erosion of adjacent property, and water supply
infringement.
      3.   The Zoning Board of Appeals may impose on the permit certain
conditions and restrictions in addition to any conditions or requirements
provided in section
8-2-5, "Special Use Standards", of this title.
   K.   Planning And Zoning Committee: The Planning and Zoning Committee shall
meet to review the application and recommendation of the Zoning Board of
Appeals and consider any public comments received since the application was
placed on file. The committee may issue a recommendation of approval or denial
to the full County Board or may refer it back to the Zoning Board of Appeals
for further consideration.
   L.   County Board Decision: Upon receiving the recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Committee, the County Board shall act on the special use
permit at its next regular meeting.
   M.   Effect:
      1.   No order of the County Board granting a special use permit shall be
valid for a period longer than twelve (12) months from the date of such order,
unless:
         a.   The building permit or any other permit required has been issued
and erection or alteration is started; or
         b.   If a building permit is not required, the occupancy has begun
within the twelve (12) month period.
      2.   Once the use has begun in a lawful manner, the special use permit
shall apply to all current and future owners of the property, provided that all
conditions imposed by the Zoning Board of Appeals on the special use permit
continue to be met. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-7: VARIANCES:
In cases where strict compliance with the terms of this title would result in
unreasonable hardship and practical difficulty, the Zoning Board of Appeals may
authorize a variance in height, lot area, and/or yard regulations. The Zoning
Board of Appeals may act only in a manner so as to grant relief without
substantial injury to the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   A.   Initiation Of Variance Approval: Any person, firm, or corporation
owning land, options to purchase land, or contract for purchase of land in the
County's unincorporated jurisdiction may apply for a variance.
   B.   Preapplication Conference: A preapplication conference, as specified in
section
8-14-2-1, "Preapplication Conference", of this chapter, is optional.
   C.   Processing:
      1.   The Zoning Officer shall forward a copy of such application to the
Director, Zoning Board of Appeals, and other County and governmental review
agencies, as deemed appropriate.
      2.   The Zoning Officer shall schedule a public hearing by the Zoning
Board of Appeals, to be held within ninety (90) days of receipt of a complete
application.
   D.   Department Review: The department shall review the variance application
and provide a written analysis to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   E.   Public Hearing:
      1.   The applicant shall publish notification of the public hearing. The
applicant shall provide direct mail notification to property owners and
abutting property owners. Both actions shall be in accordance with subsections
8-14-2-5A and B of this chapter, fifteen (15) to thirty (30) days before the
date of the public hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      2.   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall conduct a public hearing on the
proposed variance in accordance with section
8-14-2-6, "Public Hearings", of this chapter.
      3.   The Zoning Board of Appeals may table and continue the hearing to
later special or regularly scheduled meetings. It may also request the
applicant to provide additional information regarding the variance request.
   F.   Decision Of The Zoning Board Of Appeals: After closure of the public
hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall approve, approve with conditions, or
deny the variance. The concurring vote of three (3) members of the Zoning Board
of Appeals is required to approve the variance or approve the variance with
conditions.
      1.   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not vary the regulations of this
title unless it shall make findings based on the evidence presented to it in
each specific case that:
         a.   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances.
         b.   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality.
      2.   For the purpose of implementing the above rules, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall also, in making its determination, establish whether there are
practical difficulties or particular hardships and take into consideration the
extent to which the following facts favorable to the applicant have been
established by evidence:
         a.   The particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical
condition of the specific property involved would result in a particular
hardship on the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the
strict letter of the regulations were carried out.
         b.   The conditions on which the petition for a variance is based
would not be applicable, generally, to other property within the same zoning
district classification.
         c.   The purpose of the variance is not based exclusively on a desire
to make more money out of the property.
         d.   The alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by the
owner of the property or by a previous owner.
         e.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located.
         f.   The proposed variance will not impair an adequate supply of light
and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the congestion in the
public streets, or increase the danger of fire, or endanger the public safety,
or substantially diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood.
      3.   The Zoning Board of Appeals may impose on the permit certain
conditions and restrictions on the premises benefited by a variance as may be
necessary to reduce or minimize the injurious effect of such variation upon
other property in the neighborhood and better carry out the general intent of
this title.
   G.   Effect:
      1.   No order of the Zoning Board of Appeals granting a variance shall be
valid for a period longer than six (6) months from the date of such order,
unless the building permit or any other permit required within such period and
erection or alteration is started, or the use is commenced within such period.
      2.   Once the use has begun in a lawful manner, the variance shall apply
to all current and future owners of the property, provided that all conditions
imposed by the Zoning Board of Appeals on the variance continue to be met.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-8: ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENTS:
The text of this title may be amended from time to time by ordinance in
accordance with the procedures outlined in section
8-13-2,
table 8-13-2 of this title and Illinois Statutes. Amendments shall be granted
by the County Board only after a public hearing before the Zoning Board of
Appeals and after it has received a report of the Zoning Board of Appeals'
findings and recommendations.
   A.   Initiation Of Amendment: Amendments may be proposed by the County
Board; Land Use Committee; Zoning Board of Appeals; Land Use Department; or any
person, firm, or corporation owning land or options to purchase land in the
County's unincorporated jurisdiction.
   B.   Processing:
      1.   A proposed text amendment shall be filed with the department.
      2.   The department shall schedule a public hearing by the Zoning Board
of Appeals, to be held within ninety (90) days of receipt of a complete
application. Notification of the public hearing shall be in accordance with
subsection
8-14-2-5A of this chapter, fifteen (15) to thirty (30) days before the date of
the public hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   C.   Department Review: The department shall review the recommended text
amendment(s) and provide a written analysis to the Land Use Committee, and
Zoning Board of Appeals.
   D.   Zoning Board Of Appeals: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall meet to
discuss the proposed text amendment(s) at its regularly scheduled meeting. It
shall then provide a written recommendation, which shall be forwarded to the
Land Use Committee by the Director. (Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
   E.   Planning And Zoning Committee: The Planning and Zoning Committee shall
review the proposed text amendment(s) and recommend to the County Board that
it/they be placed on file in its records.
   F.   County Board: The County Board shall place the amendment(s) on file.
   G.   Public Hearing:
      1.   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall conduct a public hearing on the
proposed amendment(s) in accordance with section
8-14-2-6, "Public Hearings", of this chapter.
      2.   After closure of the public hearing, the Director shall submit to
the Planning and Zoning Committee a report of the Zoning Board of Appeals'
findings and recommendations.
   H.   Planning And Zoning Committee: The Planning and Zoning Committee shall
meet to review the amendment(s) and recommendation of the Zoning Board of
Appeals and issue a recommendation to the full County Board. The committee may
issue a recommendation of approval or denial to the full County Board or may
refer it back to the Zoning Board of Appeals for further consideration. (Ord.
10-001, 1-12-2010)
   I.   County Board Action:
      1.   Approval Or Denial: The County Board, upon recommendation by the
Land Use Committee and without further public hearing, shall approve or deny
the proposed text amendment(s) in accordance with applicable Illinois Statutes.
      2.   Township Protest: If any township located within the County has a
Planning Commission and the Planning Commission objects to a text amendment,
then the township Board of Trustees may submit its written objections to the
County Board. The protest must be submitted within thirty (30) days after the
Zoning Board of Appeals' advertised public hearing. If a protest is filed, the
County Board may not adopt the amendment except by the favorable vote of at
least three-fourths (3/4) of all members of the County Board.
      3.   Municipality Protest: In cases where a proposed text amendment would
affect the regulation of land that lies within 1.5 miles of the limits of a
zoned municipality, the elected body of that municipality may issue a written
protest. If a protest is filed, the County Board may not adopt the amendment
except by the favorable vote of at least three-fourths (3/4) of all members of
the County Board. (Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
8-14-9: MAP AMENDMENTS:
As a County that has stated its intent to remain rural, there is little need
for zoning map amendments. Development of suburban or urban residential uses
should occur mainly within incorporated municipalities, where urban services
can be provided. The Commercial General (CG) and Industrial (I) Districts
primarily serve to ensure that existing nonresidential development in the
unincorporated areas remain conforming. Thus, because the County does not
provide public water and sewer, rezonings to this category will be rare. The
Commercial Interchange (CI) District is intended to provide for commercial uses
at interchanges that are outside of current municipal service areas; this
district will seldom require expansion. The Agricultural Residential (AR) and
Planned Residential (PR) Districts recognize that there may be circumstances
where residential development in the unincorporated area may be acceptable if
it fulfills specific County needs. Following are the procedures for a zoning
map amendment:
   A.   Initiation Of Amendment: Map amendments may be proposed by the County
Board; Land Use Committee; Zoning Board of Appeals; Land Use Department; or any
person, firm, or corporation owning land or options to purchase land in the
County's unincorporated jurisdiction.
   B.   Processing:
      1.   A proposed map amendment shall be filed with the Land Use
Department.
      2.   The department shall schedule a public hearing by the Zoning Board
of Appeals. Notification of the public hearing shall be in accordance with
subsection
8-14-2-5A of this chapter, fifteen (15) to thirty (30) days before the date of
the public hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   C.   Department Review: The department shall review the recommended map
amendment(s) and provide a written analysis to the Land Use Committee, and
Zoning Board of Appeals. A contributing factor in the analysis is the land
evaluation site assessment (LESA) score, which assesses the lands that are most
suitable for agriculture preservation. Higher scoring lands are recommended to
remain as agricultural zoned areas.
   D.   Land Use Committee: The Land Use Committee shall review the proposed
map amendment(s) and recommend to the County Board that it (they) be placed on
file in its records.
   E.   County Board: The County Board shall place the map amendment(s) on
file.
   F.   Public Hearing:
      1.   The applicant shall publish notification of the public hearing. The
applicant shall provide direct mail notification to property owners and
abutting property owners. Both actions shall be in accordance with subsections
8-14-2-5A and B of this chapter, fifteen (15) to thirty (30) days before the
date of the public hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      2.   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall conduct a public hearing on the
proposed amendment(s) in accordance with section
8-14-2-6, "Public Hearings", of this chapter.
      3.   After closure of the public hearing, the Director shall submit to
the Land Use Committee a report of the Zoning Board of Appeals' findings and
recommendations.
   G.   Land Use Committee: The Land Use Committee shall meet to review the map
amendment(s) and recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals and issue a
recommendation to the full County Board. The committee may issue a
recommendation of approval or denial to the full County Board or may refer it
back to the Zoning Board of Appeals for further consideration.
   H.   County Board Action:
      1.   Approval Or Denial: The County Board, upon recommendation by the
Land Use Committee and without further public hearing, shall approve or deny
the proposed map amendment(s) in accordance with applicable Illinois Statutes.
      2.   Property Owner(s): The owner(s) of at least twenty percent (20%) of
the land to be rezoned may submit its written objection(s) to the County Board.
The protest must be submitted within thirty (30) days after the Zoning Board of
Appeals' advertised public hearing. If a protest is filed, the County Board may
not adopt the map amendment(s) except by the favorable vote of at least three-
fourths (3/4) of all members of the County Board.
      3.   Abutting Property Owner(s): The owner(s) immediately touching, or
immediately across the street, alley, or public right-of-way from at least
twenty percent (20%) of the perimeter of the land to be rezoned may submit its
written objection(s) to the County Board. The protest must be submitted within
thirty (30) days after the Zoning Board of Appeals' advertised public hearing.
If a protest is filed, the County Board may not adopt the map amendment(s)
except by the favorable vote of at least three- fourths (3/4) of all members of
the County Board.
      4.   Township Protest: If any township located within the County has a
Planning Commission and the Planning Commission objects to the map amendment,
then the township Board of Trustees may submit its written objections to the
County Board. The protest must be submitted within thirty (30) days after the
Zoning Board of Appeals' advertised public hearing. If a protest is filed, the
County Board may not adopt the map amendment(s) except by the favorable vote of
at least three-fourths (3/4) of all members of the County Board.
      5.   Zoned Municipalities: In cases where a proposed map amendment would
affect the regulation of land that lies within 1.5 miles of the limits of a
zoned municipality, the elected body of that municipality may issue a written
protest. The protest must be submitted within thirty (30) days after the Zoning
Board of Appeals' advertised public hearing. If a protest is filed, the County
Board may not adopt the map amendment(s) except by the favorable vote of at
least three-fourths (3/4) of all members of the County Board. (Ord. 2018-012,
6-12-2018)
8-14-9-1: AGRICULTURAL RESIDENTIAL (AR) DISTRICT MAP AMENDMENT:
The Agricultural Residential (AR) District is carried over from the previous
Grundy County zoning ordinance. As stated in section
8-1-4-2, "Agricultural Residential (AR) District", of this title, this district
is provided to allow a limited amount of single- family residential development
to take place on large lots in rural areas that are not well suited for
agriculture. In order to assure that highly productive farmland is not
affected, the following criteria must be established as a condition to rezoning
land into this category:
   A.   Agricultural Use: A determination shall be made that the tract of land
is not well suited for agricultural use by virtue of one or more of the
following factors:
      1.   A substantial portion of the soils on the property is not classified
as "prime agricultural soils" by the USDA, Natural Resources Conservation
Service (NRCS).
      2.   The agricultural productivity of the property will not yield a
reasonable return in comparison to the general level of return of other
agricultural properties in the vicinity.
      3.   The topographic characteristics of the property make it unsuitable
for agricultural use.
   B.   Nonagricultural Use: It shall be established that the nonagricultural
use of the tract of land will not adversely affect agricultural uses in the
neighborhood, by virtue of one or more of the following factors:
      1.   Residential dwellings will not be located where existing or future
livestock, fertilizer, or grain drying operations may cause an incompatible
relationship of uses.
      2.   Residential dwellings shall have direct access from local
subdivision streets to a thoroughfare, which will be reasonably safe.
Consideration shall be given to road dimensions, quality of surface,
visibility, and adequacy of the road to serve a mix of traffic that includes
farm vehicles and implements.
      3.   The property is physically separated from adjoining agricultural
properties by significant natural or constructed features.
      4.   The property lends itself to sound residential development
considering its existing and proposed topography, soil conditions, soil
absorption, stormwater runoff provisions, and the availability of necessary
services such as fire and police protection, schools, roads, electricity,
sewage disposal, or water supply. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-9-2: PLANNED RESIDENTIAL (PR) DISTRICT MAP AMENDMENT:
Residential sprawl is highly undesirable. The Planned Residential (PR) District
is in this title as a floating zone, as no land was zoned planned residential
when this title was adopted. All existing residential development was
classified as Residential (R); a district that does not permit new rezonings.
There are situations where, in the future, it may be in the best interest of
the County to permit limited residential development in one of three (3) forms:
recreational community, clustered development, and single-family residential
subdivision. The provisions of section
8-1-4-3, "Planned Residential (PR) District", of this title, outline the
rationale for each of these residential options. A zoning map amendment to the
PR District shall be adopted only with the approval of a planned development
for the specific development option. This section provides the standards upon
which each of the map amendments must be judged.
   A.   All Residential Options: All residential rezoning shall meet the
following criteria:
      1.   A special service district shall be created for all the districts to
provide for the maintenance of common open space, stormwater systems, water or
sewer systems and any recreation facilities.
      2.   The approval of a site development permit pursuant to section
8-14-4, "Site Development Permit", of this chapter.
      3.   The site's LESA score shall comply with the County's adopted land
evaluation and site assessment system plan.
   B.   Recreational Community Planned Development: This type of planned
development is intended as a recreation community with access to golf,
equestrian, or other recreational open space areas being the purpose of the
residential community. The following standards shall be met in granting
approval of a rezoning to this use:
      1.   The site's topography shall be significantly influenced by river or
stream corridors.
      2.   A comprehensive recreational theme for the development to use the
required open space to create a community where use or visual access to the
recreational areas shall be provided by the site plan. All residents shall have
access to the recreational facilities by trails that can be used at any time of
the day.
   C.   Conservation Development: The county cannot control annexation or the
preservation of agriculture when a municipality makes large annexations. In
order to protect the agricultural areas, the county preservation cluster places
the farmlands in a conservation easement. When the county determines that
allowing a higher density of residential development, in order to create a
greenbelt around one of the municipalities, it may determine that approving a
conservation easement is in its best interest. The following criteria shall be
met in granting a map amendment to the planned residential (PR) district to
allow higher density conservation developments:
      1.   The site is outside the existing sewer service area and/or facility
planning area of any municipality.
      2.   The site is not between two (2) or more municipalities, whose sewer
service areas are less than two (2) miles apart.
      3.   Land further away from the urban service boundary is currently in
agricultural use.
      4.   The agricultural open space creates a barrier to further expansion
of development into agricultural areas. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-9-3: RESIDENTIAL (R) DISTRICT MAP AMENDMENT:
Within areas of the county where there are existing residential (R) zoning
districts, map amendments changing the zoning district to R may be acquired.
However, the density and character of that rezoned area shall match the
existing residential area such that the land use may be preserved within that
area.
   A.   Comprehensive Plan: The area shown shall be indicated for residential
use in the Grundy County comprehensive plan; and
   B.   Character: The character of the zoning district should be predominantly
a single-family use.
   C.   Contiguity: The property being considered for an R zoning shall be
contiguous to existing residentially zoned parcels that are similar in density
and character. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-9-4: COMMERCIAL GENERAL (CG) DISTRICT MAP AMENDMENT:
No new commercial general (CG) district map amendments may be considered unless
the area proposed is designated for future commercial use in the Grundy County
comprehensive plan. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010; amd. Ord. 2021-016, 6-8-2021)
8-14-9-5: COMMERCIAL INTERCHANGE (CI) DISTRICT MAP AMENDMENT:
Property that is adjacent to I-80 and I-55 interchanges (or future interchanges
within the unincorporated areas of Grundy County) would be available for
commercial development under this zoning district. As the intended uses would
be those that motorists would use, some possible land uses would include, but
would not be limited to, fueling stations, food establishments, and short term
lodging.
   A.   Comprehensive Plan: The areas proposed for commercial interchange are
those areas designated on the comprehensive plan may for commercial use that
are also adjacent to the current and future interchanges within the
unincorporated areas of Grundy County.
   B.   Character And Landscaping: The character of the site should be
dominated by parking and allowances for the motorists. Landscaping should be
used that will soften the impact of the development while enhancing the
structures intended for the site.
   C.   Infrastructure: The facilities for these uses shall be on site or
shared facilities. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-9-6: INDUSTRIAL (I) DISTRICT MAP AMENDMENT:
There are two (2) industrial areas associated with the county's nuclear power
plants and along the Route 6 corridor. In general, new industry shall be
encouraged to annex into the cities where sewer, water, and firefighting
services suitable for these uses can be provided. Any rezoning to the
industrial (I) district shall meet the following conditions:
   A.   Comprehensive Plan: The area shown shall be indicated for industry in
the Grundy County comprehensive plan; and
   B.   Contiguity: The property shall either be contiguous to other
industrially zoned land in the county or cities; or
      1.   Be within five hundred feet (500') of industrially zoned land; or
      2.   Be within one thousand feet (1,000') of industrially zoned land in
two (2) directions and not separated by the Illinois River. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-14-10: SUBDIVISION PLAT PROCEDURES:
8-14-10-1: CONCEPT PLAN:
At the request of the applicant, the zoning officer may conduct an informal
review of a concept plan that is provided by the applicant.
   A.   Preapplication Conference: Submittal of a concept plan shall take the
place of the preapplication conference specified in section
8-14-2-1, "Preapplication Conference", of this chapter.
   B.   Review Of Plan: The department may designate the subdivision review
committee to review the concept plan.
   C.   Contents: The applicant shall submit all items stipulated in section
8-6-2-1, "General Requirements", of this title, at least twenty (20) days
before the concept plan meeting.
   D.   Outcome Of Review: A written summary of the concept plan review shall
be provided within fourteen (14) days of the concept plan review meeting,
provided the applicant has paid the required fee. Neither the applicant nor the
county shall be bound by the outcome of the concept plan review. (Ord. 10-001,
1-12-2010)
8-14-10-2: MINOR SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Submission: Any applicant requesting approval of a proposed minor
subdivision shall submit fifteen (15) copies of the items specified in section
8-6-2-1, "General Requirements", of this title, to the department. Applications
for minor subdivisions shall include a combined preliminary and final plat
submittal.
   B.   Determination Of Completeness: The land use department shall declare
the application complete or incomplete within seven (7) days of its receipt. An
incomplete submission shall be immediately returned to the applicant with a
list of missing items requiring completion before a submittal can be determined
to be complete.
   C.   Review And Approval Of Preliminary And Final Plat:
      1.   Development Review Committee: The development review committee shall
review the combined preliminary and final plat submittal of the proposed minor
subdivision and make a recommendation to the planning and zoning committee.
Other reviewers, such as the health department and the county's review
engineer, shall participate in the review, as needed.
      2.   Planning And Zoning Committee: The county board may schedule a
meeting of its planning and zoning committee to review the application and
provide its own recommendation on the application to the full county board.
      3.   County Board: Upon receiving the recommendation of the planning and
zoning committee, the full county board shall act on the minor subdivision at
its next regular meeting. The county board shall approve or reject the combined
preliminary and final plat submittal of the proposed minor subdivision. (Ord.
10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-10-3: MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Concept Plan Or Preapplication Conference: Submittal of a concept plan
or participation in a preapplication conference, as specified in section
8-14-2-1, "Preapplication Conference", of this chapter, is mandatory.
   B.   Preliminary Plat:
      1.   Submission: Any applicant seeking approval of a preliminary plat
shall submit to the department fifteen (15) copies of the materials specified
in section
8-6-2-1, "General Requirements", of this title. The application shall be
declared complete or incomplete by the Land Use Department, and copies shall be
forwarded to members of the Subdivision Review Committee and other County and
external review agencies as deemed appropriate.
      2.   Review And Recommendations:
         a.   Land Use Department: The Land Use Department shall review the
application and shall comment and make recommendations to the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
         b.   Zoning Board Of Appeals: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall review
the application and shall recommend approval or denial of the preliminary plat.
         c.   Land Use Committee: The Land Use Committee shall review the
application and recommendation from the Zoning Board of Appeals and provide
recommendations on the application for consideration by the full County Board.
      3.   County Board Action: The County Board shall review and accept or
reject the preliminary plat of a major subdivision. After receiving the
department's recommendation, the County Board shall act on the subdivision
following a recommendation made on the preliminary plat by the Land Use
Committee.
      4.   Effect Of Approval: Preliminary approval of a major subdivision
shall confer upon the applicant the following rights for a one year period from
the date of approval of the preliminary plat by the County Board.
         a.   Terms: The general terms and conditions upon which preliminary
approval was granted shall not be changed.
         b.   Phased Development: The applicant may submit an application for
final plat approval for the entire subdivision or for any section or sections
of the preliminary subdivision plat. The application must be submitted before
the expiration date of the preliminary plat.
         c.   Extension Of Time: The applicant may apply for an extension of
the time limit identified in this subsection for additional periods of up to
one year, but no more than one such extension shall be granted.
         d.   Expiration: If, by the end of the one year period, the applicant
has failed to submit at least twenty five percent (25%) of the lots in the
proposed subdivision for final plat approval, the approval of the preliminary
plat shall be rescinded.
   C.   Final Plat:
      1.   Submission: Any applicant seeking approval of a final plat shall
submit to the Director fifteen (15) copies of the materials specified in
section
8-6-2-1, "General Requirements", of this title. The application shall be
declared complete or incomplete by the Land Use Department, and copies shall be
forwarded to members of the Development Review Committee.
      2.   Deviations From The Approved Preliminary Plat: Any significant
deviations between the approved preliminary plat and the final plat submittal,
as determined by the Development Review Committee, will void the prior
preliminary plat and require an amendment to the preliminary plat.
      3.   Review And Recommendations: Review of the final plat shall be based
solely on its conformity with the proposed layout, facilities, and improvements
specified in the approved preliminary plat and with the documentation
requirements specified in subsection B1 of this section.
         a.   Land Use Department: The department shall review the application
and shall comment and make recommendations to the Zoning Board of Appeals and
the Land Use Committee.
         b.   Zoning Board Of Appeals: The Zoning Board of Appeals and Land Use
Committee shall review the application and shall recommend approval or denial
of the final plat.
         c.   Land Use Committee: The Land Use Committee shall review the
application and recommendation from the Zoning Board of Appeals and provide
recommendations on the application for consideration by the full County Board.
      4.   County Board Action: The County Board shall accept or reject the
application for final plat approval after receiving the recommendation from the
Land Use Committee. (Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
8-14-10-4: REQUIRED CERTIFICATES:
Following approval of the final plat by the County Board of a minor or major
subdivision, the following certificates, signed by proper authority, shall be
affixed to or referenced electronically from the plat document. The form of
each certificate and identity of the proper authority is explained in section
8-17-2 of this title.
TABLE 8-14-10-4

REQUIRED CERTIFICATES
Certificate Minor Subdivision Major Subdivision
Certificate                                Minor Subdivision Major Subdivision
Certificate regarding flood hazard         X                 X
County Board Chair's certificate           X                 X
County Clerk                               X                 X
County Highway Engineer and/or Illinois    X1                X
Department of Transportation
Director of Environmental Health's         X                 X
certificate
Engineer's and owner's certificate         X                 X
Municipal Clerk's certificate                               X1
Municipal Planning Commission                               X1
Notary certificate                         X                 X
Owner and school district certificate      X                 X1
Zoning Board of Appeals' Chair certificate                  X
Plat certification                         X                 X
Plat Officer's certificate                 X                 X
Surveyor's certificate                     X                 X
Township Road Commissioner's certificate   X1                X
 
Note:
    1.    If applicable.
(Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
8-14-10-5: RECORDING:
Approval of the preliminary and final plats of a subdivision shall expire
ninety (90) days from the date of County Board approval, unless within such a
period, a plat in conformity with such approved subdivision is filed with the
County Recorder. The Plat Officer may, for good cause, extend the period for
recording not to exceed one hundred eighty (180) days from the approval of the
plat by the County Board. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-11: INTERPRETATIONS:
All questions of interpretation and enforcement related to zoning or
subdivision approvals shall be first presented to the department, and then such
questions may be presented to the Zoning Board of Appeals only on appeal from
the decision of the department, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-14-12, "Appeals", of this chapter.
   A.   Official Record: The department shall maintain a record of all
interpretations rendered pursuant to this section. This record shall be
available for public inspection through the department, upon reasonable
request, during normal business hours.
   B.   Unlisted Uses:
      1.   General: Determining the classification of a use that is not
explicitly addressed by this title is an administrative interpretation.
      2.   Standards For Decision: The department shall place uses that are not
listed in chapter 2, "Permitted Uses", of this title, or defined in chapter 16,
"Definitions", of this title, into the most functionally similar category. For
nonresidential uses, a recognized land use classification system (such as the
North American Industrial Classification System, NAICS) may serve as a
guideline for determining related land uses. In determining an appropriate
listed use, the interpretation shall seek similar characteristics, including
the use's intensity and its likely adverse impacts. Where a choice remains
after reviewing for adverse impacts, the use should be classified with the
similar use that has the most adverse impacts.
   C.   Meaning Or Application Of Standards: When evaluating a provision of
this title as to its meaning or application, the provisions of this section
shall be applied. Interpretations of the meaning or application shall not
lessen protection, but may provide greater flexibility in meeting this title's
objectives. Determining the provision's public health, safety, and welfare
purposes should guide the decision.
   D.   Adverse Consequences Of An Interpretation: Adverse consequences of an
interpretation must be determined. If there are adverse consequences to
neighbors, the environment, infrastructure, quality of life, or an unintended
consequence, the interpretation should be denied. If there are no consequences
or the consequences are positive, the interpretation should be approved. (Ord.
10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-14-12: APPEALS:
Any person who disagrees with the decision of the Zoning Officer pertaining to
this title may appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of
Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision, as
in its opinion ought to be made on the premises. To this end, the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall have all the powers of the Zoning Officer.
   A.   Application: An appeal shall be taken within twenty (20) days of the
decision, as provided by the rules of the Zoning Board of Appeals, by filing
with the Zoning Officer a notice of appeal specifying the grounds for appeal.
   B.   Processing:
      1.   The Zoning Officer shall promptly forward a copy of the appeal to
the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      2.   The Zoning Officer shall schedule a public hearing by the Zoning
Board of Appeals, to be held within ninety (90) days of receipt of the
application.
   C.   Public Hearing: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall conduct a public
hearing on the appeal in accordance with section
8-14-2-6, "Public Hearings", of this chapter.
   D.   Decision Of The Zoning Board Of Appeals: After closure of the public
hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall approve or deny the appeal by a
concurring vote of three (3) or more of its members.
   E.   Effect Of Appeal: An appeal stops all proceedings and enforcement
activities. However, the Zoning Officer may certify to the Zoning Board of
Appeals (or court of record, as appropriate) that nonenforcement would cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, the Zoning Board of Appeals
(or court of record) may refuse to stop the enforcement proceedings.
   F.   Decision: The Zoning Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or
in part, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination
involved in the appeal. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
CHAPTER 15
ENFORCEMENT, INTERPRETATION, AND SEVERABILITY
SECTION:
8-15-1: Zoning Enforcement
8-15-1-1: Violations Procedures
8-15-1-2: Penalty
8-15-2: Interpretation
8-15-3: Severability
8-15-1: ZONING ENFORCEMENT:
8-15-1-1: VIOLATIONS PROCEDURES:
Whenever there is found a violation of the terms of this UDO, the land use
department shall at once issue written notice to the owner and any other party
responsible, specifying the nature of the violation and citing the provisions
of this UDO which are violated, and said owner and any other party shall at
once take appropriate steps to correct said violation. In case of failure by
the owner or other responsible party to correct the violation within a
reasonable time, the land use department shall initiate action or proceeding as
shall secure compliance with the applicable provisions of this title. It shall
be the duty of the land use department to enforce the provisions of this UDO
and to bring to the attention of the county state's attorney any violations or
lack of compliance. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-15-1-2: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects,
refuses to comply with, or resists enforcement of any of the provisions of this
UDO shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each
day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
Other actions may be taken by law or in equity to prevent or to remedy any
violation of this title, and these remedies shall be in addition to any other
penalties. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-15-2: INTERPRETATION:
In their application, the provisions of this UDO shall be held to be the
minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort,
morals, convenience, and general welfare, and the provisions shall be
interpreted in accordance with the following:
   A.   Conflicting Provisions: Where the conditions imposed by any provision
of this UDO are either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable
standards imposed by any other provision of this UDO or of any other law,
ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation of any kind, the regulations which
are more restrictive, or which impose higher standards or requirements, shall
govern.
   B.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This UDO is not intended to
abrogate any easements, covenants, or other private agreements, provided that,
where the regulations of this title are more restrictive or impose higher
standards or requirements than such easement, covenants, or other private
agreements, the requirements of this title shall govern.
   C.   Existing Buildings, Structures, And Uses: No building, structure, or
use not lawfully existing at the effective date hereof shall become or be made
lawful solely by reason of the adoption of this UDO and to the extent that, and
in any manner that said unlawful building, structure, or use is in conflict
with the requirements of this UDO, said building, structure, or use remains
unlawful under the provisions of this UDO. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-15-3: SEVERABILITY:
   A.   Generally: If any division, section, paragraph, clause, provision, or
portion of this UDO is held unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this UDO shall not be affected. If any
application of this UDO to a particular structure, land, or water is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment
shall not be applicable to any other structure, land, or water not specifically
included in said judgment.
   B.   Signs: With respect to chapter 5, "Signs", of this title, the following
severability provisions shall apply:
      1.   Severability Generally: If any part, section, subsection, paragraph,
subparagraph, sentence, phrase, clause, term, or word of chapter 5, "Signs", of
this title, or any other provision of this UDO related to signage, is declared
unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent
jurisdiction, the declaration of such unconstitutionality shall not affect any
other part, section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, phrase,
clause, term, or word of chapter 5, "Signs", of this title, or this UDO.
      2.   Severability Of Provisions If Adjudicated Stricken Due To A Content
Basis: It is the intent of the county board to regulate signage in a manner
that implements the purposes of chapter 5, "Signs", of this title, as expressed
therein. The county finds that the purposes stated in chapter 5, "Signs", of
this title, are legitimate, substantial, and compelling public interests, that
the regulation of signage provided by chapter 5, "Signs", of this title, is
unrelated to the suppression of free expression, and that the incidental
restrictions on expression that may occur as a result of these regulations is
no more than is essential to the furtherance of the public interests. However,
if a court of competent jurisdiction finds any regulation therein to be based
upon content and, further, declares such regulation unconstitutional, then it
is the intent of the county board that only that portion of the provision that
is found to relate to content be severed from this UDO, and if it is not
possible for the court to strike only the portion of the provision that is
found to relate to content, then it is the intent of the county board that all
signs that would be subject to the stricken provision will instead be subject
to the next surviving provision for a sign of like geometry and character that
is more restrictive than the stricken provision in terms of sign area. (Ord.
10-001, 1-12-2010)
CHAPTER 16
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-16-1: Word Usage; Abbreviations; And Acronyms
8-16-1-1: World Wide Web Links
8-16-1-2: Word Usage
8-16-1-3: Abbreviations And Acronyms
8-16-2: Use Definitions
8-16-2-1: Agricultural Uses
8-16-2-2: Residential Uses
8-16-2-3: Home Uses
8-16-2-4: Institutional Uses
8-16-2-5: Commercial Uses
8-16-2-6: Recreation And Amusement Uses
8-16-2-7: Industrial Uses
8-16-2-8: Miscellaneous Uses
8-16-2-9: Temporary Uses
8-16-3: General Definitions
8-16-1: WORD USAGE; ABBREVIATIONS; AND ACRONYMS:
8-16-1-1: WORLD WIDE WEB LINKS:
Some of the definitions of this UDO include links to world wide web sites that
provide supporting information ("external links"). The external links were
current as of the effective date. However, the materials provided in the
external links are not part of this UDO. The director is authorized to maintain
and update the external links to provide for public and administrative
convenience without further action of the county board. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-16-1-2: WORD USAGE:
   A.   Generally: The rules of this section shall be observed and applied when
interpreting this UDO, except when the context clearly requires otherwise.
   B.   Word Usage: Words shall be interpreted as follows:
      1.   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words used or
defined in one tense or form shall include other tenses or forms.
      2.   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words in the
singular number shall include the plural number, and words in the plural number
shall include the singular number.
      3.   The masculine gender shall include the feminine. The feminine gender
shall include the masculine.
      4.   The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory.
      5.   The words "may" and "should" are permissive.
      6.   The word "person" includes individuals, partnerships, firms,
corporations, associations, trusts, and any other similar entities or
combination of individuals. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-16-1-3: ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS:
Table 8-16-1-3, "Meaning Of Abbreviations And Acronyms", of this section sets
out the meaning of the abbreviations and acronyms used in this UDO.
TABLE 8-16-1-3

MEANING OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ac.   Acres
ANSI  American National Standards Institute
dBA   A-weighted decibels
dbh   Diameter at breast height
du    Dwelling unit
e.g.  For example. Items listed after the abbreviation "e.g." are intended to
      be illustrative and not limiting
FAR   Floor area ratio
FEMA  Federal emergency management agency
FIRM  Flood insurance rate map
ft.   Feet
i.e.  That is. Text that follows the abbreviation "i.e." is intended to clarify
      prior text by restating it in a different way
in.   Inches
LOMA  Letter of map amendment
Max.  Maximum
Min.  Minimum
n/a   Not applicable
NAICS North American industrial classification system
OSR   Open space ratio
Sec.  Section
sf.   Square feet
USACE United States army corps of engineers
USC   United States Code
 
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-16-2: USE DEFINITIONS:
8-16-2-1: AGRICULTURAL USES:
AGRICULTURE: These uses include land (with and without farm residences) used
for field crops, orchards, viticulture, aquaculture, sod, plant materials for
off site sales, and truck farming. It also includes the raising or breeding of
livestock, cattle, horses, poultry, and bees where there is no more than one
animal unit per acre. The following uses are also included as agriculture:
   Agriculture Sales And Events: Activities such as "pick your own" sales,
agricultural tourism such as corn mazes and farm tours, or community supported
agricultural events.
   Clearing: This involves the cutting of trees or underbrush on a site whether
by clear cutting, selective cutting, bulldozing, burning or other means
including forestry or in preparation for agricultural use.
   Incidental Processing: Processing activities such as production of honey,
butter, syrup, or other products from raw materials grown or obtained on site.
APIARY: Assembly of one or more colonies of bees at a single location.
BEE: All stages of life of the common domestic honey bee or apis mellifera
species.
BEEKEEPER: A person who owns and has responsibility in the maintenance and
safety of the apiary.
BEEKEEPING EQUIPMENT: Anything that used for the operation of an apiary.
BOARDING/RIDING STABLES: The stabling, training, feeding of horses, or the
provision of riding facilities for other than personal use by the resident of
the property.
CARGO CONTAINER: A premanufactured structure, of metal construction that is
designed as a shipping container for portable storage. Cargo containers are
considered to be accessory structures as regulated by the unified development
code and will require a building permit prior to placement. The container shall
be limited such that the containers are not greater than eight and one-half
feet (8'6") in height, eight feet (8'0") wide, and not longer than forty feet
(40'0") in length.
COLONY: Grouping of honey bees that consists of workers, one queen, drones,
brood, combs, and honey.
FARMSTEAD: A residential-agricultural unit in a portion of the agricultural
land, platted or unplatted, is used for the residence of the owner/operator of
the agricultural operation who lives on the land as owner or by lease. It may
include multiple properties; the residence, barns, and fields or pastures need
not be on the same lot.
FLYWAY BARRIER: A solid wall, fence or dense vegetation that is maintained that
modifies the flight pattern for the bees.
HIVE: A Langstroth design that houses the colony and has removable frames for
inspections.
   Nucleus Hive: Consisting of a hive that does not exceed one standard 9-5/
8 inch depth ten frame hive body with no supers attached. Each nucleus hive
shall be disposed of or combined with an authorized colony within thirty days
after the date it is acquired as it provides the queen and starter bees for the
hive.
INTENSIVE AGRICULTURE: These uses include any agricultural uses such as
feedlots, hog farms, and poultry operations where animals are tightly confined
in buildings or outdoor pens or pastures that are required to obtain an NPDES
or related permit because of animal or poultry wastes.
KENNEL: Any premises or portion of a premises on which more than two (2) dogs
or cats are maintained, boarded, bred, or cared for in return for remuneration
or are kept for the purpose of sale.
NURSERIES: Nurseries and ornamental floriculture whose primary use is the
growing of plants, with incidental sales of landscaping products or equipment.
For uses that are primarily involved in the retail sale of plants, garden
supplies, and landscape materials, see definition of Garden Center.
SENSITIVE USE PARCEL: Parcels which house or have uses which have multiple
people such as the elderly, small children, individuals with medical conditions
or housing that confines animals. These uses include but are not limited to
nursing homes, hospitals, schools, preschools, daycares, stables, and kennels.
(Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-012, 7-12-2011; Ord. 2021-018, 6-8-
2021)
8-16-2-2: RESIDENTIAL USES:
CHICKEN: A female gendered domesticated fowl (hen) of the subspecies Gallus
gallus domesticus.
COOP: An enclsoure or cage consisting of four (4) walls, a roof, and a floor
with adequate ventilation and appropriate access and egress, designed in such a
way as to provide safe and healthy living conditions for the chickens.
GROUP HOME: A dwelling that is owned or leased by a behavioral health service
provider and shared by persons who live together as a single housekeeping unit
in a long term family like environment that:
   A.   Provides residential services and supervision for children or
individuals who are developmentally disabled or behaviorally disabled;
   B.   Is occupied as a residence with full time, twenty four (24) hour staff
supervision;
   C.   Does not include living quarters that serve persons as an alternative
to incarceration for a criminal offense;
   D.   Houses eight (8) or fewer nonemployee residents (see the definition of
Institutional, Residential for larger facilities).
LIVE-WORK UNIT: A dwelling unit that provides space that is designed for
commercial uses that are permitted in the zoning district. Access between the
dwelling unit and the commercial space is provided within the unit.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A dwelling unit that is fabricated in an off site
manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building site,
bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with standards
promulgated by the U.S. department of housing and urban development (HUD),
pursuant to 42 USC section 5403, construction and safety standards, and
certified as provided in 77 Illinois administrative code 880.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel of land divided into two (2) or
more lots for rent, lease, or sale. This use also includes a parcel of land
divided into two (2) or more recorded parcels for sale.
MULTI-FAMILY: Buildings that contain three (3) or more residential condominium
or rental apartment units (subject to long term leases) that share one or more
common entrances. Boarding houses, dormitories, fraternities, sororities, bed
and breakfast establishments, hotels and motels are not included in this
definition.
SINGLE-FAMILY: All detached dwelling units constructed on lots and intended for
only one family.
SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED: All attached dwelling units, including duplexes, in
which two (2) or more units are physically connected with each unit having its
own entrance.
SINGLE-FAMILY CLUSTER: Single-family residential uses within a subdivision that
is designed to include common open space that remains undeveloped.
TWO-FAMILY: Attached, two-dwelling units including duplex and twin home types.
The units are joined by a common side wall or occupy separate stories. (Ord.
10-001, 1-12-2010; amd. Ord. 2012-011, 4-10-2012; Ord. 2020-03, 1-14-2020)
8-16-2-3: HOME USES:
CHILDCARE HOME: A family home that receives more than three (3), and up to a
maximum of eight (8), children for less than twenty four (24) hours per day.
The number counted includes the family's natural or adopted children and all
other persons under the age of twelve (12).
HOME OCCUPATIONS: Any service, professional, or art occupation, which is
conducted in a residence, which does not change the essential character of the
residential use. Sales, wholesale or retail, shall be prohibited except for
sales distributors who fill orders for catalog type products and make
deliveries to the customer's house, as opposed to customers coming to the place
of business. Commercial deliveries are made by parcel services, not large
trucks. No employees other than family members living in the unit are
permitted. No commercially licensed vehicles are permitted. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-16-2-4: INSTITUTIONAL USES:
COLLEGE/UNIVERSITY: Public or private colleges, universities, and professional
schools providing other advanced education beyond high school.
CORRECTIONAL FACILITY: Housing where the residents are assigned to the facility
and are under the protective care of the county, state, or federal government.
This use includes jails, prisons, work release, other similar facilities, and
psychiatric hospitals.
DAYCARE FACILITY: A commercial facility that regularly provides daycare for
less than twenty four (24) hours per day, usually during customary business
hours, in a facility other than a family home.
HOSPITALS: Hospitals and medical laboratories, including general medical and
surgical hospitals and specialty hospitals, except alcoholism and drug
rehabilitation facilities.
INSTITUTIONAL, RESIDENTIAL: These uses include:
   Convents or monasteries and nursing homes.
   Dormitories, fraternities, sororities, or co-ops.
   Institutional housing where there is commercial rental or condominium
ownership combined with any of the following: common food service, nursing, or
healthcare.
   Schools with live-in facilities on site, other than universities, colleges,
or preparatory schools.
   Sheltered care facilities or group living facilities where the residents
live in an institutional environment and are, generally, under the care or
control of staff. All sheltered care, group care, group homes, and residential
substance abuse facilities where total occupancy is more than eight (8) shall
be included in this category. The residents would be members of an institution,
or would have institutional care, or would be treated by staff in an
institutional setting with common living and eating spaces, rather than living
independently. This category includes drug and alcoholism hospitals and
rehabilitation centers.
PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY: This use includes museums, aquariums, cultural or
arts centers, conference centers, libraries, public and private schools serving
grades K – 12, places of worship, and cemeteries. The use is further defined by
scale.
PRIVATE CLUB: Organizations or associations of persons for some common purpose,
such as a fraternal, social, educational or recreational purpose, but not
including clubs organized primarily for profit or to render a service which is
customarily carried on as a business. Examples of private clubs include (but
are not limited to) 4-H clubs, veterans' organizations, Boy Scout and Girl
Scout facilities, Elks lodges, YMCA, YWCA, private community clubhouses, golf
clubhouses, and fraternities and sororities that do not include residential
facilities.
PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY: These uses include government or privately operated
facilities that provide local public services. They include:
   Conservation and agricultural service agencies.
   Emergency service, buildings, or garages (e.g., ambulance, fire, police,
rescue).
   Postal service buildings except major distribution centers.
   Other state and federal agency services.
UTILITIES, NEIGHBORHOOD: Utilities serving the local area. Utility substations
or transmission and local distribution facilities, including electric, gas,
telephone, sewer, water, and stormwater. Whether a substation or transmission
facility, the transmission lines shall either be in road rights of way,
adjacent to the rights of way, or in easements or separate rights of way twenty
feet (20') or less in width. Generation or storage of combustibles is not
included in this definition. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010) 
8-16-2-5: COMMERCIAL USES:
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT AND OTHER RURAL SERVICES: This use includes farm supply
services, farm equipment repair and dealers, grain storage, and large animal
veterinary practices.
BED AND BREAKFAST: Any place of lodging that provides five (5) or fewer rooms
for rent, is the owner's personal residence, and is occupied by the owner at
the time of rental.
CAR WASH: A building or portion of a building containing facilities for washing
two (2) or more motor vehicles using automated procedures.
COMMERCIAL LODGING: These uses include hotels, motels, including those with
convention facilities, and facilities that cater their occupants.
COMMERCIAL RETAIL: Commercial and retail uses include the following, provided
no general storage or sales occur on the exterior on a regular basis.
Furthermore, no regular sales can exceed five percent (5%) of the interior
floor area. Examples of commercial retail uses include:
   Clothing and accessory stores.
   Consumer electronics, personal computers, and appliances.
   Consumer rental of light equipment or video entertainment media.
   Food and beverage stores.
   Furniture stores.
   General merchandise stores.
   Miscellaneous retail, including: art, gifts, sporting goods, drugstores,
liquor, books, toys, camera stores.
   Paint, glass, wallpaper, hardware stores.
DRIVE-IN/DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY: These uses include all uses providing service
to customers in vehicles who either drive up to a window or station or drive
through the building for purchases or services (e.g., banking). This is often
the second use of the property, and the primary use must also be permitted in
the district. A drive-in facility does not include a drive-in cinema.
GARDEN CENTER: A retail enterprise that sells garden supplies, plant materials,
packaged fertilizers and topsoil, outdoor ornaments, tools and household
equipment, and related products to the general consumers. This category also
includes adjoining areas for growing plant materials.
HEAVY RETAIL AND SERVICE: These are retail and/or service activities that have
regular exterior service or storage areas or partially enclosed structures as
listed below:
   Exterior commercial retail sales.
   Fuel dealers.
   Home improvement centers.
   Lumber and other building materials.
   Miniwarehouses, not with outside storage.
   Recreational equipment rental where equipment is stored outside.
   Repair shops and related services.
   Vehicle repair services, towing, and parking except light auto services (see
definition of Light Automobile Service).
LIGHT AUTOMOBILE SERVICE: This includes:
   Auto malls with a number of the uses, as listed below in this definition,
contained in a single building. This definition includes an accessory car wash
as part of the mall.
   Gasoline service stations, gas convenience marts, and quick service oil,
tune up, brake, and muffler shops where repairs are made in fully enclosed bays
and no vehicles are stored overnight. A single bay car wash associated with a
gas convenience mart is included in this definition, provided it constitutes
less than twenty percent (20%) of total floor area and is not in a separate
building.
MINISTORAGE UNITS: A single building or series of buildings for the storage of
personal property in self-contained, self-storage units, each of which units
has separate and exclusive access from either the exterior or interior of the
building. This definition includes an accessory office or living quarters for
the person providing security services for the property.
MIXED USE: An occupancy or use that contains two (2) or more use categories,
one of which shall be residential. Two (2) configurations are included:
   A building or group of buildings arranged around a walkway or pedestrian
oriented street containing three (3) or more uses; or
   A multi-story structure.
OFFICE: Office uses include:
   Agricultural support and services (offices only, no equipment or
warehousing).
   Business services.
   Civic and social organizations.
   Educational services, such as business schools, technological, and trade
schools excluding public and private schools serving grades K – 12 (see
institutional uses).
   Finance, banks, trusts, lending.
   Governmental offices (excluding public service).
   Health services.
   Insurance carriers, agents, brokers, and service.
   Miscellaneous services.
   Professional and technical services.
   Real estate.
   Security, commodity brokers, and services.
   Social services (except care facilities).
RESTAURANT: A use that serves food for consumption within or to take out.
SERVICES: These uses include a wide variety of personal and commercial
services. This category does not include those services for customers in
vehicles, such as a drive-in banking facility.
   Funeral homes.
   Health and exercise; dance studios.
   Laundry services.
   Miscellaneous repair services and shops.
   Personal services.
   Professional, medical, dental, or social assistance.
SHOPPING CENTER: A group of commercial retail, service, and other commercial
uses located in a single planned unit.
VEHICULAR SALES, RENTAL, AND SERVICE: Automobile, boat, motorcycle,
recreational vehicle dealers, auto repair.
VETERINARY PRACTICE: Clinics and hospitals that provide care for small domestic
animals. For the purposes of this UDO, the term does not include large animal
and livestock veterinarians, which are classified as agricultural support and
other rural services. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-16-2-6: RECREATION AND AMUSEMENT USES:
CAMPGROUNDS: This is a form of commercial lodging where guests bring tents,
travel trailers, recreational vehicles (RVs), campers, or other similar forms
of shelter, and the campground or RV park owner rents pads to the guests.
COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENT, INDOOR: This use includes, but is not limited to, all
indoor commercial amusement facilities: bowling alleys, indoor sports arenas,
movie theaters, indoor skating rinks (ice or roller), video arcades, pool
halls, and shooting arcades.
COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENT, OUTDOOR: This use includes, but is not limited to:
fairgrounds, outdoor stadiums, racing facilities, rodeos, music arenas, theme
parks, amusement parks, miniature golf establishments, water slides, batting
cages, hunting preserves, and shooting ranges.
INDOOR RECREATION: This use includes the following:
   Recreational uses that are public (open to community or development
residents) including community recreation centers, gymnasiums, indoor swimming
pools, or tennis, racquetball, or handball courts.
   Specifically excluded are health and exercise clubs and uses listed as
commercial amusement uses.
OUTDOOR RECREATION: This use includes the following:
   Passive recreational uses including, but not limited to: arboretums,
wildlife sanctuaries, forests, areas for hiking, nature areas, and other
passive recreation oriented parks.
   Picnic areas, garden plots, and beaches.
   Public areas (open to community residents) for active recreational
activities including, but not limited to: jogging, cycling, tot lots, playing
fields, playgrounds, outdoor swimming pools, and tennis courts, golf courses
(full sized 9 holes, regulation length) regardless of ownership and membership,
golf and country clubs, par 3 golf courses, and golf driving ranges. (Ord. 10-
001, 1-12-2010)
8-16-2-7: INDUSTRIAL USES:
ADULT USES: This includes:
   An establishment having as a significant or substantial portion of its stock
in trade books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, and/or
photographs, films, motion pictures, electronic media, slides, tapes, records
or other forms of visual or audio representations that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified anatomical areas, or
   An establishment offering massage, manipulation, rubbing, vibration,
stroking, or tapping of the human body with the hand or an instrument, staffed
by one or more persons who do not belong to any nationally recognized massage
therapy association or by persons who are not graduates of any recognized
training school in massage therapy.
   An establishment or building used for presenting material and/or conduct
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein. This includes bars, restaurants, movie
theaters, theaters, peepshows, strip halls, special cabarets, physical culture
establishments, photographic studios, role playing or bondage establishments,
or any other normally permitted use where "specified sexual activities" are
displayed, or where "specified anatomical areas" are exposed to customers.
   A.   For the purpose of this definition, the term "specified sexual
activities" is defined as:
      1.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      2.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy;
      3.   Fondling, kissing, or other erotic touching of specified anatomical
areas;
      4.   Flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship;
      5.   Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or the
infliction of pain;
      6.   Erotic touching, fondling or other such contact with an animal by a
human being; or
      7.   Human excretion, urination, menstruation or vaginal or anal
irrigation as part of or in connection with any of the activities set forth in
this definition.
   B.   For purposes of this definition, the term "specified anatomical areas"
is defined as:
      1.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, anus, or female breast below a point immediately above the top
of the areola; and
      2.   Human male genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
CARGO CONTAINER: A standardized, reusable container for the transport of cargo,
which may be moved by multiple modes (including semitrailer trucks, cargo
ships, and freight trains), without unpacking.
DEBILITATING MEDICAL CONDITION: One or more of the following:
   Cancer, glaucoma, positive status for human immunodeficiency virus, acquired
immune deficiency syndrome, hepatitis C, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Crohn's
disease, agitation of Alzheimer's disease, cachexia/wasting syndrome, muscular
dystrophy, severe fibromyalgia, spinal cord disease, including, but not limited
to, arachnoiditis, Tarlov cysts, hydromyelia, syringomyelia, rheumatoid
arthritis, fibrous dysplasia, spinal cord injury, traumatic brain injury and
postconcussion syndrome, multiple sclerosis, Arnold-chiari malformation and
syringomyelia, spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA), Parkinson's, Tourette's,
myoclonus, dystonis, reflex sympathetic dystrophy, RSD (complex regional pain
syndromes type I), causalgia, CRPS (complex regional pain syndromes type II),
neurofibromatosis, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, Sjogren's
syndrome, lupus, interstitial cystitis, myasthenia gravis, hydrocephalus, nail-
patella syndrome, residual limb pain, or the treatment of these conditions; or
any other debilitating medical condition or its treatment that is added by the
department of public health by rule.
DESIGNATED CAREGIVER: A person who is: a) at least twenty one (21) years of
age; b) has agreed to assist with a patient's medical use of cannabis; c) has
not been convicted of an included offense; and d) assists no more than one
registered qualifying patient with his or her medical use of cannabis.
DISPOSAL: Facilities for the disposal of waste or the composting of organic
wastes. The term includes:
   A.   Landfill; and
   B.   Composting facility.
EXTRACTION: This category includes extraction uses such as mining, quarrying,
and gas and oil drilling. Wells and removal of water from a surface water body
or underground aquifer are excluded from this definition.
HEAVY INDUSTRY: This category includes: construction, mining support,
manufacturing, transportation, and public utilities due to the land use
intensity impacts typically associated with large industrial uses, their
accessory outdoor storage uses, and large building areas. The following uses
are permitted:
   Alcoholic beverages.
   Any light industry in a building or buildings in excess of eighty thousand
(80,000) square feet of ground cover, or having exterior storage occupying
fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet or more, or having a height in excess of
forty five feet (45').
   Electric power generation intended primarily for transmission and
distribution off premises.
   Heavy construction contractors.
   Hydrocarbon production, refining, and processing facilities; but excluding
office functions, transmission, or distribution. This includes all utilities
that are excluded from the definition of "utilities, community".
   Industrial equipment leasing.
   Meat products manufacturing.
   Stone, clay, and glass products.
   Transportation equipment manufacturing.
   Trucking and warehousing.
   Welding, sheet metal, blacksmith.
LIGHT INDUSTRY: This use includes: manufacturing, transportation, and wholesale
use in buildings of less than eighty thousand (80,000) square feet of ground
cover or having exterior storage occupying less than fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet, or having a height of less than forty five feet (45'). This,
generally, includes the following uses:
   Any heavy industrial use (defined in this section) occupying a masonry
building less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet in floor area, having
no outside storage or processing and which is serviced with delivery of raw or
partially assembled materials and shipping of the final product by parcel
delivery vans, not semitrailers.
   Building, development, and general contracting. Special trade contractors,
except storage of any equipment that is more than twelve feet (12') in height.
   Communications.
   Electric and electronic equipment, except electronic distribution and
electrical industrial.
   Food products other than microbreweries.
   Furniture and fixtures.
   High tech heavy industry where the business is less than twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet and receives and ships all its packages via courier
service.
   Instruments and related products.
   Miniwarehouses.
   Miscellaneous manufacturing industries.
   Office and computing machines.
   Printing and publishing.
   Regional utility substation or distribution station on at least two (2)
acres.
   Textiles and apparel.
   Transportation services.
   Truck, recreational vehicle, and mobile home sales.
   Truck rental.
   Other rental.
   Wholesale trade, durable and nondurable, except farm products.
MEDICAL CANNABIS: Includes marihuana, hashish and other substances which are
identified as including any parts of that plant Cannabis sativa, whether
growing or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such
plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation
of such plant, its seeds, or resin including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all
other cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or
synthetically produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by
extraction, or independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination
of extraction and chemical syntheses; but shall not include the mature stalks
of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds
of such plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt derivative, mixture or
preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom),
fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seeds of such plant which is incapable of
germination.
MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is registered by the department of agriculture to perform
necessary activities to provide only registered medical cannabis dispensing
organization with usable medical cannabis, which is run by a registered
cultivation center agenda as defined in state statute 410 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 130/10(f).
MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING FACILITY: A facility that is operated by an
organization or business that is registered by the department of financial and
professional regulation to acquire medical cannabis from a registered
cultivation center for the purpose of dispensing cannabis, paraphernalia, or
related supplies and educational materials to registered qualifying patients,
and under the control of a registered, medical cannabis dispensing organization
agent as defined in state statute 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 130/10(p).
OUTDOOR CARGO CONTAINER STORAGE AND HANDLING FACILITIES: An outdoor facility
for the parking, storage, and transfer of cargo containers among transport
modes (e.g., truck to train, or truck to truck).
PRIVATE AIRSTRIP: A grass runway for fixed wing aircraft that is generally
limited to the private use of a single owner.
QUALIFYING PATIENT: A person who has been diagnosed by a physician as having a
debilitating medical condition.
REGISTRY IDENTIFICATION CARD: A document that is issued by the department of
public health that identifies a person as a registered qualifying patient or
registered designated caregiver.
SALVAGE ACTIVITIES: This use includes any land or structure used for salvaging,
recycling, junkyards, or storing of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal, and
discarded materials and the collection, dismantlement, storage, and salvage of
two (2) or more inoperative vehicles, automobiles, boats, trucks or farm
vehicles or equipment, or other types of machinery. This includes the aggregate
storage of manmade equipment, machinery, scrap, or other used materials having
a total cubic volume of seven hundred (700) cubic feet. Where there is no
exterior storage and all the material is stored inside buildings with
impervious floors, the use shall be considered light industry.
UTILITIES, COMMUNITY: A utility described above that is served by or involves
rights of way or easements greater than twenty feet (20'). Generation or
storage of combustibles is excluded from this definition (see definition of
Heavy Industry).
WAREHOUSING AND TRANSPORTATION: This category includes all warehousing and
storage during transit, except mini- or self- storage warehouses or that is not
incidental to a manufacturing facility and occupying less than twenty five
percent (25%) of the total floor area. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010; amd. Ord. 2014-
018, 11-10-2014)
8-16-2-8: MISCELLANEOUS USES:
AIRPORTS: This use includes all fixed wing aircraft runways, landing strips,
and flight training schools excluding those that are accessory to a residence
or farmstead for the private, noncommercial use of an individual.
CEMETERIES: This use includes outdoor areas designated for the burial of human
remains. The term cemetery does not include:
   A.   Private memorial gardens that are accessory to places of worship,
university campuses, or farmsteads; or
   B.   Columbaria that are accessory to places of worship, or university
campuses.
LANDSCAPE WASTE COMPOSTING AND ORGANIC COMPOSTING FACILITY: An establishment
for the composting of waste materials accumulated as the result of the care of
lawns, shrubbery, vines, and trees, or the composting of other organic
materials (e.g., food scraps) that are collected from off site.
PARKING AND TRANSIT FACILITIES:
   A.   Parking that is not accessory to a specific use, where a fee is
normally charged. A facility that provides both accessory parking for a
specific use and regular fee parking for people not connected to the use is
also classified as a parking facility. This includes small structures intended
to shield attendants from the weather.
   B.   Terminals used for the ticketing, loading, and unloading of bus or
train passengers. Food and beverage sales conducted during normal terminal
operations are included as accessory uses.
PRIVATE PIPELINE: A pipeline (including pump stations and surge and storage
tanks) that conveys crude petroleum or refined petroleum (e.g., gasoline, fuel
oil, natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, or comparable commodities) between
sources, terminal facilities, distribution centers, or other wholesale or
retail supply facilities. Private pipelines do not include pipelines associated
with utility service to individual retail customers.
UTILITY SCALE WIND ENERGY CONVERSION FACILITIES: Utility scale devices that
convert wind energy into electricity through the use of a wind turbine
generator consisting of the turbine, blade, tower base, and pad transformer (if
any).
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES: This use includes radio or television
broadcasting towers, telecommunications towers, and antenna arrays. The phrase
does not include residential satellite dishes, TV or HDTV antennas, or amateur
radio antennas. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-16-2-9: TEMPORARY USES:
COMMERCIAL OUTDOOR SALES EVENT: Outdoor sales for seasonal goods in an area
designated on the plan for exterior sale, which may be permanently or
temporarily delimitated by a fence of some sort.
CONTRACTOR'S OFFICE: This includes watchmen's trailers, construction equipment
sheds, contractors' trailers, and similar uses incidental to a construction
project. Sleeping and/or cooking facilities may also be permitted.
FARM STAND: This is a temporary or permanent structure or vehicle used in the
sale of agricultural produce in season, at least fifty percent (50%) of which
is grown by the seller. More than one farm may sell at a single stand.
MODEL HOMES: A dwelling unit in a subdivision used as a sales office or a
modular unit used as a sales office for a subdivision.
SALES OFFICE: A modular unit temporarily used as a sales office for any
development or redevelopment project.
SPECIAL EVENTS: Outdoor gatherings, auctions, art sales, and bake sales for the
benefit of the community, or community service or nonprofit organizations.
These events may also include, but are not limited to, outdoor concerts,
auctions, carnivals, circuses, outdoor religious meetings, and special
entertainment at commercial properties. Such uses often travel to various
communities or involve noisy events regardless of purpose. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010)
8-16-3: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
This section sets out all of the other definitions that are used in the UDO.
Definitions for which illustrations are appropriate as an interpretive tool
will be illustrated.
ABANDONMENT: That the use, structure, or sign is not used, occupied, or
otherwise operating for the intended nonconforming activity for six (6) months,
as specified in section
8-12-2, "Continuation Of Nonconformities", of this title. Periods of active
remodeling during which the use is closed for repairs should not be considered
in determining abandonment, provided the remodeling is completed within a
reasonable time period as indicated on the zoning permit issued for remodeling
nonconforming use. Abandonment of signs shall mean having electricity
disconnected for lighted signs, no message, or the failure to repair damaged
signs.
ABUTTING: Two (2) or more lots sharing the same or common property or district
lines, including lots separated by an alley.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1660.gif]
ACCESS: An area designated as a way for vehicles to enter or leave a property
or lot to a public or private street or alley. Access is intended to permit
residents to bring their vehicles onto the property, customers or tenants to
park, and to provide for public access in emergencies.
ACCESS EASEMENT: That portion of a lot used for ingress/egress to an abutting
lot and shown on a record plan by a recorded easement declaration. In no case
shall a street or highway right of way be construed to mean an easement.
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building or structure detached from a
principal building located on the same lot, and which is customarily incidental
and subordinate to the principal use or building.
ACCESSORY USE: A use of land or a building, or portion thereof, customarily
incidental and subordinate to the principal use or building, and located on the
same lot with such principal use or building.
ACTIVE RECREATION: Recreational uses, areas, and activities oriented toward
potential competition and involving special equipment. Playgrounds, sports
fields and courts, swimming pools, picnic areas and golf courses are examples
of active recreation uses. Also see definition of Passive Recreation.
ADDITION: Any construction, which adds or enlarges the size of an existing
building. Additions also include any extension or increase in floor area, or
height of a building or structure. Examples of an addition are: a porch,
carport, new room, roof configuration, etc. Also see definitions of Conversion,
Building Or Use and Structural Alterations.
ALLEY: A secondary means of access to abutting property that may be used for
service vehicles and access to parking areas.
ALTER OR ALTERATION: A change in the appearance of a building, structure, site,
or object, which is not otherwise covered by the definition of demolition, or
any other change for which a permit is required pursuant to this UDO.
ANCILLARY USES: Uses subordinate to the principal use being conducted on a lot
located either on the same lot as the proposed use(s) or on a separate lot, but
which provide services convenient to the operation of the principal use.
APARTMENT: A multi-family residential unit.
APPEAL: A way to obtain review of a decision, determination, order, or act of
an administrative agency pursuant to the terms of this UDO.
APPLICANT: A person, firm or governmental agency who executes the necessary
forms to obtain approval or a permit for any zoning, subdivision, land
development, building, land disturbance, or other activity regulated by this
UDO.
APPROVAL: Final approval given by the department, zoning board of appeals, or
when county board action is required for final approval, approval shall mean
the adoption of all necessary ordinances, resolutions or the signature of the
county board chairman when no ordinance or resolution is required.
APPROVED SEGMENT: A portion of a subdivision street for which a developer has
posted a bond, letter of credit, or other surety with the county to ensure
completion of specified public or private street improvements.
AQUIFER: A body of rock (crystalline, sand or gravel) that contains sufficient
saturated permeable material to conduct groundwater springs or to yield
economically significant quantities of groundwater to wells.
ARBORIST: A person possessing a bachelor's degree in arborculture from a
college or university who is certified through the International Society Of
Arborculture with documented experience in midwest states.
ARTERIAL STREET: See definition of Street, Arterial.
AS BUILT PLANS OR RECORD DOCUMENTS: A set of engineering or site drawings that
delineate the lot lines, roads, water, sewer, other utilities, and stormwater
management facility as actually constructed.
ATTIC: The area between roof framing and the ceiling of the rooms below, and
that is not habitable, but may be reached by ladder and used for storage or
mechanical equipment. Improvement to habitable status shall make it a story.
AWNING: A structure partially attached or entirely supported by a wall, and
which is covered by canvas, cloth, plastic, other similar material, used as a
protective cover for a door, entrance, window, walkway, or service area.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. A flood is a general and temporary condition of
partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas adjoining a river,
stream, or watercourse. The "base flood" is also known as the 100-year flood.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BASE SITE AREA: A calculated area obtained by subtracting various land areas
from the gross site area.
BASEMENT: See definition of Story, First.
BENCH MARK: A definite point of known elevation and location, and of more or
less permanent character. The identity and elevation shall be based on NAD
1927/NGVD 1929 or NAD 1983/NGVD 1988.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES: That combination of conservation measures,
structures, vegetation or management practices, that reduces or avoids adverse
impacts of development on adjoining site's land, water, or waterways and water
bodies.
BLOCK: A piece of land surrounded on all sides by streets or other
transportation rights of way, or by physical barriers such as water bodies or
public open spaces. Blocks are normally divided into lots.
BOARD OF APPEALS: The Grundy County zoning board of appeals.
BUFFER: A designated area between two (2) land uses deemed incompatible with
each other, or along the perimeter of a natural feature to be protected from an
incompatible use, or along the perimeter of that use, which will absorb or
otherwise preclude such incompatibility by some combination of construction
design, vegetative plantings, fences and/or maintenance practices which shall
be permanently maintained.
BUFFER, RIPARIAN: See definition of Riparian Buffer.
BUFFER YARD: A strip of land on the periphery of a property created to separate
one type of land use or zoning district from another when they are incompatible
or in conflict. Buffer yards include street buffer yards that protect the use
from road related nuisances or screen undesirable uses. (See figure below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1662.gif]
BUILD TO LINE: The building setback where the structure is required to be
constructed.
BUILDABLE AREA: The space remaining on a lot after the minimum open space or
landscape surface requirements, buffer yards and setbacks have been met. (See
figure below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1664.gif]
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground, including manufactured homes, prefabricated
building and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational
vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days per year.
BUILDING CODE: Title 6 of this code.
BUILDING FRONT: That exterior wall of a building which faces the front lot
line.
BUILDING HEIGHT: See definition of Height, Building.
BUILDING LINE: A line that runs along the ground at the plane of the principal
building wall that is closest to the lot line that corresponds to the building
line. For example, the "front building line" marks the location of the front of
the principal building that is closest to the front lot line.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: Building officer of the land use department or his or her
designee.
BULK REGULATIONS: Controls which establish the maximum size, height, and
setback of a building on its lot. See chapter 3 of this title.
CLOMA: FEMA's comment on a proposed structure or group of structures that
would, upon construction, be located on existing natural ground above the base
(1 percent annual chance) flood elevation on a portion of a legally defined
parcel of land that is partially inundated by the base flood.
CLOMR: FEMA's comment on a proposed project that would, upon construction,
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective base flood elevations, or the special flood hazard areas (SFHA).
CALIPER: The diameter of new landscape plantings measured six inches (6")
aboveground.
CANOPY TREE: See definition of Tree, Canopy.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: A statement signed by the department setting forth
that a building, structure, or use legally complies with this UDO and title 6
of this code, and that the building, structure, or use may be used for the
purposes stated therein.
CERTIFICATION OF OWNERSHIP: A statement bearing the signature of the owner of
the subdivision or land development stating that all dedications are offered to
the county, state, or private utilities.
CERTIFY OR CERTIFICATION: Formally attesting that the specific inspections and
tests, where required, have been performed, and that such tests comply with the
applicable requirements of this title.
CLEAN FILL: A nondecomposable, environmentally inert solid, such as rock, soil,
gravel.
CLEAR CUTTING: The practice of wholesale, complete removal of all trees,
disturbing shrubs, or other vegetation in the process. This definition does not
include the selective removal of trees on a building pad or normal maintenance
of vegetation.
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT: An alternative development technique, usually for single-
family dwellings, where individual lot size is reduced and other areas are set
aside within the development for water, natural resource protection,
agriculture, or common open space.
COLLECTOR, RESIDENTIAL: See definition of Street, Residential Collector.
COLLECTOR STREET: See definition of Street, Collector.
COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION: A building permit or other written permit
required to be issued by the department has been issued and work commenced
under such permit which is recognizable upon an inspection of the property and
which work is of a nature and character that reflects a good faith intention to
continue the work until completion, such as the clearing of rights of way,
rough grading of the roadway, the installation of a drainage system or
stormwater management facilities, and the placement and active maintenance of
erosion and sediment control measures.
COMMON FACILITIES: Any area on a record plan dedicated as private open space,
stormwater management area, recharge or infiltration system, park, active
recreation facility, common parking area, sidewalk not located in a county or
state right of way, street not dedicated for public use, and landscaping,
easement, fence or any other item if specifically defined as a common facility
on the record plan or in the maintenance declaration.
COMMON LAND: That land set aside for open space, including stormwater retention
lakes, ponds or recreational use areas for the owners of lots in a subdivision,
which land is conveyed in trust for the benefit, use and enjoyment of the lot
owners.
COMMUNITY FACILITIES: Facilities and services required to serve new
development, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Roads, streets, highways, bridges and public transportation facilities;
   B.   Water supply production, treatment and distribution facilities;
   C.   Sewage collection, treatment and disposal facilities;
   D.   Drainage facilities;
   E.   Parks, open space and recreation facilities;
   F.   Public primary and secondary schools;
   G.   Police protection services;
   H.   Fire and paramedic services;
   I.   Libraries.
COMMUNITY OPEN SPACE: Open space areas within a manufactured home park which
are designed and intended for the use and enjoyment of park residents and their
guests.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The adopted land use plan or any of its adopted elements,
indicating the proposed future development of the county as adopted by the
county board.
CONDOMINIUM: A multi-family dwelling or single-family detached or attached
dwelling governed by the Illinois condominium act 1 .
CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building that:
   A.   Complies with all the regulations of this UDO, or of any of its
amendments, governing bulk, lot area, height, setbacks and other requirements
for the district in which it is situated; or
   B.   Is designed or intended for a permitted or specially permitted use as
allowed in the district in which it is located.
CONSERVATION: The planned management of a natural feature to prevent its
exploitation, destruction, or neglect.
CONSERVATION DESIGN: A series of holistic land development design goals that
maximize protection of key land and environmental resources, preserve
significant concentrations of open space and greenways, evaluate and maintain
site hydrology, and ensure flexibility in development design to meet community
needs for complementary and aesthetically pleasing development. Conservation
design encompasses the following objectives: conservation/enhancement of
natural resources, wildlife habitat, biodiversity corridors, and greenways
(interconnected open space); minimization of environmental impact resulting
from a change in land use (minimum disturbance, minimum maintenance);
maintenance of a balanced water budget by making use of site characteristics
and infiltration; incorporation of unique natural, scenic and historic site
features into the configuration of the development; preservation of the
integral characteristics of the site as viewed from adjoining roads; and
reduction in maintenance required for stormwater management practices. Such
objectives can be met on a site through an integrated development process that
respects natural site conditions and attempts, to the maximum extent possible,
to replicate or improve the natural hydrology of a site.
CONSERVATION EASEMENT: A portion of a lot that is covered by an easement
providing that such land shall be left in agricultural use, a natural state, or
as an open space access easement.
CONSTRUCT OR CONSTRUCTION: The erection of a new building, structure, or object
upon a site.
CONSTRUCTED WETLAND: A low lying, basin like structure, artificially created by
dredging, damming, or leveeing of earth for the retention of water, and the
establishment of a hydrophytic vegetative community.
CONSTRUCTION BUFFER: A specific separation distance that serves to absorb the
impact of land disturbing activities and protect a designated resource area.
CONTIGUOUS: Land that abuts other land or lands that are separated only by
streets, ways, pipelines, electric power lines, conduits or rights of way,
owned in fee or less than fee, by third parties.
CONVERSION, BUILDING OR USE: The process by which the original use of a
building or land is changed to a different use. See also definitions of
Addition and Structural Alterations.
COUNTY: The county of Grundy, Illinois.
COUNTY BOARD: The governing body of Grundy County, Illinois.
COUNTY CLERK: The county clerk of Grundy County, Illinois.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of
the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk. Examples of critical facilities where flood
protection should be required include: emergency services facilities (such as
fire and police stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care
facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone
switching stations or electrical transformers), and hazardous material storage
facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
CUBIC YARDS: The amount of material in excavation and/or fill measured by the
method of average end areas.
CUTOFF: The point at which all light rays emitted by a lamp, light source, or
luminaire are intercepted by a shield preventing their continuation. For signs,
the term cutoff simply refers to the use of shields to direct the light so
light rays shine exclusively on the sign.
CUTOFF TYPE LUMINAIRE: An outdoor lighting fixture, or luminaire, with shields,
reflectors, or refractor panels which direct and cut off the light at an angle
that is less than ninety degrees (90°). (See figure below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1666.gif]
DAY-NIGHT LEVEL (DNL): A measure of noise that is an outdoor, day-night average
A-weighted sound level.
DAYS: Working days.
DEDICATION: The transfer of private property to public or common ownership for
a public purpose. The transfer may be in fee simple interest, or less than fee
simple interest, including easements. Dedication requires the acceptance of the
interest to be complete.
DEMOLISH: Demolition or demolish means the razing or destruction, whether
entirely or in significant part, of a building, structure, site, or object.
Demolition includes the removal of a building, structure, or object from its
site, the removal or destruction of the facade or surface, or the alteration to
such an extent that repair is not feasible or is so costly so as to be
prohibitive, rendering the property unfit for use. Demolition shall also
include demolition by neglect.
DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT: The failure to provide ordinary and necessary
maintenance and repair to a building, structure, or object. Whether by ordinary
negligence or wilful neglect, purpose or design, by owner or any party in
possession thereof, which results in any of the following conditions:
   A.   The deterioration of the exterior features so as to create or permit a
hazardous or unsafe condition to exist.
   B.   The deterioration of exterior walls, roofs, chimney, windows, the lack
of adequate waterproofing, or deterioration of interior features or foundations
which will or could result in permanent damage or loss of exterior features.
DENSITY: The number of dwelling units (or other units if specified) per acre of
land of a parcel proposed for development.
DETENTION/RETENTION BASIN: A natural or manmade structure designed as a
temporary holding basin for water. Water may be detained to minimize flooding
downstream, or retained to increase aquifer recharge.
DEVELOPABLE LAND: All land within the boundaries of any tract proposed for
development except for land which is located within the existing rights of way
of any public or private road or any overhead utility line, floodplains,
including land continuously covered with water, wetlands and prohibitive steep
slopes.
DEVELOPER: A person seeking to build or develop as defined in this UDO.
DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Any manmade change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
      1.   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building, or any
addition to a building;
      2.   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
      3.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days;
      4.   Installation of utilities; construction of roads, bridges, and
culverts; or similar projects;
      5.   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls, or fences;
      6.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface;
      7.   Storage of materials, including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks; and
      8.   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
   B.   "Development" does not include maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
   C.   Any action covered by section
8-1-2-1, "Applicability", of this title.
DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT (dbh): A measurement of the size of tree equal to the
diameter of its trunk measured 4.5 feet above the adjacent natural grade. See
also definition of Caliper.
DIRECTOR: The director of the Grundy County land use department, being also the
administrative official charged with the administration and enforcement of this
UDO.
DISPOSAL FIELD: A system of open jointed or perforated pipes laid in the upper
strata of the soil to distribute sewage effluent into the soil for absorption
and vaporization.
DISTRICT: A section or part of the unincorporated portion of the county or of
an unzoned municipality within which certain regulations and requirements of
this UDO apply.
DOMESTIC ANIMALS: An animal that is tame or domesticated and that is not
normally found in the wild state. Hybrids of animals normally found in the wild
state are not included within the meaning of domestic animal.
DRIP LINE: A generally circular line, the circumference of which is determined
by the outer reaches of a tree's widest branching points.
DRIVEWAY: A private accessway, primarily for vehicles, leading from a street to
a parking or loading area.
DRY WASTE: Includes clean fill, plastics, lumber, trees, stumps, vegetative
matter, asphalt pavement, asphaltic products incidental to construction/
demolition debris, or other materials which have reduced potential for
environmental degradation and leachate production.
DWELLING: A building, or portion thereof, used as a place of residence,
containing sleeping, cooking, and sanitary facilities, excluding commercial
lodging facilities. (See section
8-16-2-2, "Residential Uses", of this chapter.)
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms physically arranged so as to create an
independent housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family with
separate facilities for all of the following: sanitation, living, sleeping,
cooking and eating.
EASEMENTS: Any portion of a parcel subject to an agreement between the property
owner and another party which grants the other party the right to make limited
use of that portion of the property for a specified purpose. See definition of
Conservation Easement.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: A FEMA form to be completed by a professional engineer
or surveyor to document the elevation of the lowest floor, including basement,
of all new and substantially improved structures.
ENDORSEMENT: The signature of the director of the department, and, where
applicable, that of the county board chairman, appended to the record plan to
signify its approval.
ENGINEER: An individual technically and legally qualified to practice the
profession of civil engineering and who is registered to do so in the state of
Illinois.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT REPORT: Any study, report or application
required by this UDO, such as critical natural areas, floodplains, riparian
buffers, steep slopes, water resource protection areas and wetlands.
EROSION: The wearing away of soil or rock fragments by water, rain, wind or
earth gravity.
EROSION PRONE SLOPES: Slopes that consist of land with soils of United States
department of agriculture soil conservation service capability classifications
IVe, VIe, VIs and VIIe as mapped by the latest soil survey of the county.
ESSENTIAL ACCESS: An access that must cross a protected resource area, such as
a wetland, floodplain or steep slope, to reach an area of the site that is
otherwise buildable, and would result in damage to the protected resource.
EXCAVATION: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any
other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
EXISTING GRADE: The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to
excavation or filling.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
EXTERIOR FEATURES: The architectural style, design and general arrangement of
the exterior of a building, structure or object, including the color, nature
and texture of building materials, and the type of style of all windows, doors,
light fixtures, signs or other similar items found on or related to the
exterior of a building, structure or object.
EXTERIOR STORAGE: Outdoor storage of fuel, raw materials, products, equipment
and other materials accessory to the permitted nonresidential use.
   A.   Exterior storage includes all building materials or waste or scrap
materials stored outdoors.
   B.   Truck trailers held on the site for more than one night storing
materials or awaiting pick up shall be considered exterior storage.
   C.   In the case of truck terminals, exterior storage includes all trucks,
truck beds and truck trailers that are not involved in active loading.
FAA: Federal aviation administration.
FEMA FLOODPLAIN: Floodplains identified and delineated on the FIRMs issued by
the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) for unincorporated Grundy County
as amended.
FACADE: See definition of Building Front.
FALL ZONE: The area, defined as the farthest distance from the tower base, in
which a guyed tower and blade will collapse in the event of a structural
failure.
FAMILY: A group of individuals living together and functioning as a single
housekeeping unit, using certain rooms and housekeeping facilities in common.
The following individuals shall qualify as a family for the purposes of this
UDO:
   A.   One person or two (2) or more persons each related to the other by
blood, marriage, or legal adoption,
   B.   Persons placed in foster care by an authorized agency.
   C.   Live-in domestic workers employed by the resident household to conduct
cleaning, cooking, gardening, and similar tasks.
   D.   Not more than four (4) other unrelated individuals.
   E.   In addition to subsection D of this definition, not more than two (2)
room boarders or permanent guests, whether or not gratuitous.
FARM: The land, buildings, structures and machinery which are primarily adapted
and used for agricultural purposes.
FASCIA: A band located at the top edge of a building but below the actual
roofline and above the building wall. Fascia material is often of a different
type than either the actual roof or the building wall.
FEEDER LINE: Any power line that carries electrical power from one or more wind
turbines or individual transformers associated with an individual wind turbine
to the point of interconnection with the electric power grid, in the case of
interconnection with the high voltage transmission systems the point of
interconnection shall be the substation serving the U-SWECS.
FENCE: Constructed barrier erected to enclose, screen, or separate areas and
may include masonry walls designed and constructed for these purposes.
FINAL GRADE: Surface prior to excavation or filling. The vertical location of
the ground or pavement surface after the grading work is completed in
accordance with the site development plan.
FINANCIAL ASSURANCE: Reasonable assurance from a creditworthy party, examples
of which include a surety bond, trust instrument, cash escrow, irrevocable
letter of credit or combinations thereof.
FLAG (PENINSULAR) LOT: A tract of land having insufficient lot width along a
road or at the minimum setback line to meet bulk standards for the district.
Section
8-2-3-11, "Residential Development", of this title lists alternative
development requirements for this lot type. (See example below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1668.gif]
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation,
or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood plus one foot
(1') of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
FLOODPLAIN: A relatively flat or low lying land area adjoining a river, stream,
or watercourse which is subject to periodic, partial or complete inundation by
water from any source during the base flood.
FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): These two (2) terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the county that are subject
to inundation by the base flood. The floodplains of the county are generally
identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Grundy County prepared
by the federal emergency management agency and dated August 2, 2012. Floodplain
also includes those areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to properties and structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to lands, water and sanitary facilities, structures and contents
of buildings.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A FEMA form to be completed by a professional
engineer or surveyor to certify that a floodproofed nonresidential building has
been constructed in accordance with NFIP requirements.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base
flood. The floodway for the floodplains of the Illinois River, Kankakee River,
Des Plaines River, Mazon River, East Fork Mazon River, East Fork Mazon River
Tributary, Aux Sable Creek, Nettle Creek, East Fork Nettle Creek, East Fork
Nettle Creek Tributary, Gooseberry Creek, West Fork Gooseberry Creek and
Claypool Drainage Ditch shall be as delineated on the countywide flood
insurance rate map of Grundy County prepared by FEMA and dated August 2, 2012.
The floodways for each of the remaining floodplains of Grundy County shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state, or other sources.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS: See definition of Gross Floor Area (GFA).
FOOT-CANDLE: A unit measuring the amount of illumination produced on a surface.
One foot-candle is the amount of illumination falling on all points which are
one foot (1') from a uniform point source of one candle.
FOREST: An area covered by a canopy of woody plants (trees) that qualifies as
mature and/or young. It may also be a woodland, woodlot, grove, or stand of
trees meeting the specifications of the forest type.
FOREST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES: That combination of generally accepted methods for
preserving, promoting and protecting silviculture, which may include selective
cutting, burning and removal of trees.
FOREST, MATURE: An area or stand of trees whose total combined contiguous
canopy covers an area of one acre or more composed of canopies of trees having
a dbh of at least eighteen inches (18") or greater covering at least seventy
five percent (75%) of that area.
FOREST, YOUNG: An area or stand of trees whose total combined canopy covers an
area of one acre or more, with canopy trees having a dbh of six inches (6") and
covering at least sixty percent (60%) of the area. However, no trees kept or
grown for commercial purposes shall be considered a young forest.
FORESTER: A person possessing a bachelor's degree in forestry from a college or
university accredited by the Society Of American Foresters or licensed in
midwest states maintaining licensing programs.
FORMER CODES: Titles 7, 8 and 9 of this code in existence prior to the adoption
of this unified development ordinance and prior to any update amendments
adopted by county board.
FORMER ZONING DISTRICT: All Grundy County zoning districts (zoning
designations) prior to the adoption of this unified development ordinance.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
FRONT LOT LINE: See definition of Lot Line.
FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION OF STREETS: See definition of Street Functional
Classification.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A garage accessory to a principal building and in which no
business, service or industry is conducted.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A garage available to the public for free or fee.
GEOLOGIST: An individual technically and legally qualified to practice the
profession of geology and who is registered to do so in the state of Illinois.
GOVERNMENTAL BODY: Any federal, state, or local government including the
departments, agencies, commissions, and instrumentalities thereof.
GRADE: The natural level of the ground adjoining the object whose height is to
be measured. Where grade refers to a street or road, it is the existing grade
at that point.
GRADING: The excavation, filling (including hydraulic fill) or stockpiling of
earth materials, or any combination thereof, including the land in its
excavated or filled condition.
GREENWAY: A linked system of open spaces, park lands, historic and cultural
sites, wildlife management areas and natural preserves. Connecting corridors
between such resources generally will be linear in nature and can include such
features as natural areas, hiking trails, bike paths, city sidewalks, stream
corridors, rivers, abandoned railroad rights of way, or scenic roads.
GROSS AREA: The total land and water surface area contained within the
boundaries of a lot or tract.
GROSS FLOOR AREA (GFA): The sum of the total horizontal areas of every floor of
every building on a lot. The measurement of gross floor area shall be computed
by applying the following criteria:
   A.   The horizontal square footage is measured from the outside face of all
exterior walls.
   B.   Cellars, basements, penthouses, attics, enclosed storage or mechanical
areas, mezzanines and similar structures shall be included as GFA wherever at
least five feet (5') are provided between the finished floor and the ceiling.
   C.   Except upper floor areas in open atriums no deduction shall apply for
horizontal areas void of actual floor space, for example, elevator shafts and
stairwells.
   D.   All parking structures count toward GFA unless specifically exempted by
other sections of this UDO.
   E.   Unheated structures or buildings, not fully enclosed whether temporary
or permanent and exposed to the elements through the absence of walls on at
least twenty five percent (25%) of its perimeter shall not be counted as GFA.
GROUNDWATER: A portion of the subsurface water that occurs beneath the water
table in soils and geologic formations that are fully saturated.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE: Any substance as found in 40 CFR 116, designation of
hazardous substances.
HEIGHT, BUILDING: The maximum height of a building permitted on a lot. Building
height is determined from the vertical distance as measured from the median
level of the finished grade adjacent to the exterior walls of the building to
the highest point of the building, excluding chimneys and antenna.
HIGHWAY: Any road, thoroughfare, street, boulevard, lane, court, trailway,
right of way or easement used for, or laid out and intended for, public passage
of vehicles or persons.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful business, occupation, or profession conducted
within a dwelling unit by a member of the family residing in the dwelling unit
that is incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling unit for dwelling
purposes.
HOMEBUYER: Any person whose intent is to accept a deed to a lot or dwelling
unit.
HOMEOWNER: Those individuals who accept a deed to a lot or dwelling unit.
HYDRIC SOILS: Soils which in their natural, undrained state are wet frequently
enough at or near the surface to periodically produce anaerobic conditions,
thereby influencing plant species composition and/or growth.
HYDROPHYTIC VEGETATION: Those plants which are adapted to life in saturated
soil conditions.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources/office of water resources.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE RATIO (ISR): The proportion of a development that is
impervious surface. It is determined by dividing the area in impervious surface
by the base site area.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACES: Areas that do not allow significant amounts of water to
penetrate.
INFILTRATION: The passage or movement of water through the soil profile.
INTENSITY: The degree to which land is allowed to be used for development. See
definition of Density.
INTERIOR STREET: A right of way that provides vehicular access within a
manufactured home park or development that is not dedicated or intended to be
dedicated to the county and that is not maintained by the county.
INTERMITTENT STREAM: A channel with banks and a bed within which concentrated
water flows some of the time.
INVASIVE WOODY PLANTS: Trees and other woody plants which have a tendency to
spread, encroach, or infringe on other plant species, often displacing less
hardy species.
LAND DEVELOPMENT, MAJOR: See definition of Major Land Development.
LAND DEVELOPMENT, MINOR: See definition of Minor Land Development.
LAND DISTURBANCE: Changing the composition or character of the land or
vegetation on the site. This includes cutting trees, clearing and grading
operations, grading, excavation, removal or destruction of the ground cover.
Disturbance includes the act of preparing a site for a building. The act of
construction of a building or any portion of a building is not covered by the
term land disturbance and would be regulated by the land uses category.
LAND GRADING: See definition of Grading.
LAND, IMPROVED: Vacant land that has been provided with electrical power,
water, wastewater collection, streets and sidewalks, and other infrastructure.
LAND USE APPLICATION: Any building permit application, zoning permit
application, subdivision or land development plan application, rezoning
application, limited use application, special use application, variance
application, appeals, or any other application made to the department which, if
granted, would have the effect of permitting the development or use of land.
LAND USE DEPARTMENT: Consists of the building and zoning officer, planner, and
director.
LANDOWNER: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or any other entity who
possesses a legal interest in property.
LANDSCAPE PLAN: A plan indicating the placement of trees, shrubs, ground cover
and affiliated structures and improvements, including specifications, species,
quantities and installation as prepared by an Illinois registered landscape
architect.
LANDSCAPE SURFACE AREA: Surface area of land not covered by any buildings,
storage areas, or impervious surface. These areas shall be maintained as lawn
or a natural area and may be left undisturbed. (See example below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1670.gif]
LANDSCAPE SURFACE RATIO (LSR): The area of landscaped surface divided by the
base site area.
LANDSCAPING: The design and installation of plant material such as lawns,
ground cover, trees, bushes, etc., in formal, informal, or natural
arrangements.
LEACHABLE WASTES: Waste materials including, without limitation, solids, sewage
sludge and agricultural residue which may release waterborne contaminants to
the surrounding environment.
LEACHATE: Liquid that has passed through, contacted or emerged from dry waste
and contains dissolved, suspended or miscible materials, chemicals and
microbial waste products removed from the dry waste.
LESSEE: Any person who leases all or a portion of a premises on a day to day,
week to week or month to month basis.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): FEMA's comment on a proposed structure or group
of structures that would, upon construction, be located on existing natural
ground above the base (1 percent annual chance) flood elevation on a portion of
a legally defined parcel of land that is partially inundated by the base flood.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): FEMA's modification to an effective flood
insurance rate map (FIRM), or flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM), or both.
LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective base flood elevations, or the special flood hazard area (SFHA). The
LOMR officially revises the FIRM or FBFM, and sometimes the flood insurance
study (FIS) report, and, when appropriate, includes a description of the
modifications. The LOMR is generally accompanied by an annotated copy of the
affected portions of the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
LEVEL OF SERVICE (LOS): A measure of traffic on a roadway segment or
intersection being used during peak hours, as determined by the most current
version of report 209, the "Highway Capacity Manual", prepared by the national
research council's transportation research board. Level of service is expressed
on a scale of "A" to "F" with "A" indicating the best level of service and "F"
indicating the worst. The definitions of levels of service "A" through "F"
shall be those contained in the references cited in this definition.
LOADING SPACE: A durably paved, properly designed for drainage, off street
space used for the loading and unloading of vehicles, except passenger
vehicles, in connection with the use of the property on which such space is
located.
LOCAL RESIDENTIAL ACCESS STREET: See definition of Street, Local Residential
Access.
LOCAL STREET: See definition of Street, Local.
LOT: A parcel of land whose boundaries have been established by a legal
instrument such as a recorded deed, court order or a recorded plot that is
recognized as a separate legal unit for purposes of transfer of title.
LOT AREA: The area of a lot taken at its perimeter exclusive of any portion
within a public or private street right of way.
LOT COVERAGE: That portion of the lot area that is covered by buildings.
LOT, EXTENSION (PENINSULAR): See definition of Flag (Peninsular) Lot.
LOT LINE: A property line dividing one lot from another or from a street or
other public place. A lease line shall not be interpreted to be a lot line.
There are basically four (4) types of lot lines - front, rear, side, and
street. (See figure below.)
   Front Lot Line: The street lot line from which the unit takes access; or
where more than one street yard could safely provide this access, the street
serving the smallest traffic volume.
   Rear Lot Line: The lot line opposite or nearly opposite the front lot line.
In the case of a lot without a clearly identified rear lot line, that line
shall be construed to be a ten foot (10') long line drawn parallel with the
front street line.
   Side Lot Line: The lot line that runs generally perpendicular or at angles
to the street or any line that is not a front, street or rear lot line.
   Street Lot Line: Any lot line that is also a street right of way line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1672.gif]
LOT WIDTH: The distance across the lot (side lot line to side lot line) at the
minimum front setback line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1674.gif]
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of title 6 of this code.
LUMINAIRE: A complete lighting unit consisting of a light source and all
necessary mechanical, electrical, and decorative parts ready to be mounted on
pole or other location.
LUMINAIRE, CUTOFF TYPE: See definition of Cutoff Type Luminaire.
MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE: A guarantee of facilities or work to ensure the
correction of any failures of any improvements required pursuant to this UDO,
or to maintain same.
MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION: An organization approved by Grundy County that is
legally responsible for owning, maintaining, and/or managing open space. A
maintenance organization may be a condominium association, a third party
conservancy, or a maintenance corporation.
MAJOR CHANGE: A change to the plan that increases density or floor area,
decreases open space, buffer yards, or parking, or which alters the alignment
or layout of streets by more than five feet (5'). For special use approvals
granted prior to the adoption of this UDO, any use proposed not contained in
the original advertisement shall be considered a major change.
MAJOR LAND DEVELOPMENT: A plan that proposes one or more of the following:
   A.   A new public or private street.
   B.   Buildings or expansions that exceed the limits of subsection B of the
definition of Minor Land Development.
   C.   A subdivision of land resulting in more than five (5) lots.
   D.   Apartment or multi-family development of ten (10) or more dwelling
units.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A dwelling unit that is fabricated in an off site
manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building site,
bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with standards
promulgated by the U.S. department of housing and urban development (HUD),
pursuant to 42 USC section 5403, construction and safety standards, and
certified as provided in 77 Illinois administrative code 880.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1676.gif]
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: (See section
8-2-5-17, "Manufactured Home Park Or Subdivision", of this title.) An area of
land upon which manufactured homes are harbored, either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure or enclosure used,
or intended for use, as part of the manufactured home park.
MANUFACTURED HOME SITE: (See section
8-2-5-17, "Manufactured Home Park Or Subdivision", of this title.) A plot of
land within a manufactured home park designed for the accommodation of a single
manufactured home unit.
MARQUEE: A hood or permanent roof type construction that projects from the wall
of a building above an entrance for movie theaters, banquet hall, hotel, and
similar uses.
MAXIMUM PERMITTED ILLUMINATION: The most illumination, measured in foot-
candles, that is allowed at the interior lot line at ground level.
MEADOW: A grassland condition either planted or a result of natural succession
that has been established for at least five (5) years. Areas with shorter
establishment periods shall be considered disturbed land.
MEAN SURFACE WATER ELEVATION: The observed limit of dry weather flow elevation
in a watercourse.
METEOROLOGICAL TOWER: Meteorological towers are those towers which are erected
primarily to measure wind speed and directions plus other data relevant to
siting U-SWECS. Meteorological towers do not include towers and equipment used
by airports.
MINIMIZE: To reduce to the smallest amount possible using best management
practices. "Minimize" shall not mean complete elimination, but shall require
that the most substantial efforts possible under the circumstances have been
taken to reduce the adverse effect of the action required to be minimized.
MINOR CHANGE: A change to the plan that does not increase density or floor
area, does not decrease open space, buffer yards or parking, or alter the
alignment or layout of streets by more than five feet (5').
MINOR LAND DEVELOPMENT: A plan that proposes one or more of the following:
   A.   A subdivision of land resulting in not more than two (2) lots having an
overall acreage of less than five (5) acres.
   B.   Except for single-family dwellings and accessory structures on existing
fee simple lots, land development proposing new buildings or additions one
thousand (1,000) square feet gross floor area (GFA) or less.
MITIGATION: Any action taken to lessen the specified undesirable impacts of a
proposed land use or land disturbance activity, including those which would
adversely affect the health or longevity of a natural feature, pose a visual
intrusion or conflict, or otherwise be deemed incompatible with surrounding
properties.
MOBILE HOME: (See section
8-2-5-17, "Manufactured Home Park Or Subdivision", of this title.) A structure
constructed before June 15, 1976, transportable in one or more sections, which,
in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40)
body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is three hundred twenty
(320) or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and
designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation. This
definition shall not include motor homes or recreational vehicles.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A lot, parcel, or tract of land developed with facilities for
accommodating two (2) or more mobile homes, provided each mobile home contains
a kitchen, flush toilet, and shower or bath; and such park shall be for use
only by nontransient dwellers remaining continuously for more than one month,
whether or not a charge is made. It shall not include a sales lot in which
automobiles or unoccupied mobile homes or other trailers are parked for the
purpose of inspection or sale, except mobile homes located on a site in the
mobile home park which are occupied or vacant for not more than ninety (90)
days after occupancy may be sold or offered for sale.
MONUMENT: A stone or concrete boundary marker, as required by this UDO,
intended to fix the physical location of property lines.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Shall include:
   A.   A passenger vehicle, truck, truck trailer, trailer, or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
   B.   A motorcycle, motor bike, or recreational vehicle.
   C.   A boat or boat trailer.
NFIP: National flood insurance program.
NAMEPLATE: A sign indicating the name and address of a building, or the name of
one of its occupants, and the type of operation being practiced by that
occupant.
NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD): Elevations referenced to mean sea
level datum of the 1929 or 1988 U.S. geological survey.
NATURAL DRAINAGE: Channels formed in the existing surface topography of the
earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PLAN: A supplemental plan associated with
residential major subdivision plans, applicable to the natural resource area
open space, which shall be referenced on the record plan as being an integral
part of the record plan detailing the disposition, use and maintenance for all
natural resource area open spaces. The plan shall include:
   A.   Executive Summary: A brief description of the contents of the plan and
the natural resource area open space to be managed. The ownership of natural
resource area open space shall also be identified.
   B.   Description Of Existing Conditions: Narrative description of protected
resources on site, including natural and scenic resources. The discussion of
natural resources shall include a list of species found on the site and the
overall condition and health of the natural systems. Other resources shall be
similarly discussed, including their health and condition or significance.
   C.   Goals And Objectives: Overall goals and objectives for managing natural
resource area open space shall be established along with methods of measuring
the implementation of such objectives to help in determining that the goals are
met.
   D.   Management Measures: A description of proposed activities, budget and
schedule for managing and restoring natural resource area open space pursuant
to the goals and objectives identified in subsection C of this definition.
   E.   Maintenance And Operation Plan: Identification of any annual or
periodic maintenance and operation of natural resource area open space
necessary to implement the management plan.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced or
after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building, structure or parts thereof lawfully
existing at the time this UDO or a subsequent amendment to this UDO became
effective which does not conform to the dimensional requirements of the
district in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING LOT: A lot, legally established prior to the adoption of this
UDO, which does not meet the standards of the district in which it is located.
This can involve minimum area, buildable area, or dimensional requirements of
the lot.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign, legally established prior to the adoption of this
UDO, which does not fully comply with the standards of this UDO.
NONCONFORMING SITUATION: A building/structure or the use of a lot or building/
structure lawfully existing at the time this UDO or a subsequent amendment to
this UDO became effective which does not conform to the dimensional and/or use
requirements of the district in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use of land or use of a building/structure lawfully
existing at the time this UDO or a subsequent amendment to this UDO became
effective which does not conform to the use requirements of the district in
which it is located.
NONDELINEATED FLOODPLAIN: An area subject to a 100-year flood, for which FEMA
has not delineated a floodplain, adjacent to a watercourse that is also
identified by a blue line on the current United States geological survey (USGS)
topographic maps of the county, or adjacent to a watercourse that is identified
as a "stream" in the detailed maps of the Grundy County soil survey.
OPACITY: The measurement of the screening effectiveness of a landscape buffer
or fence expressed as the percent of vision that the screen blocks.
OPEN SPACE: Parcels of land within a residential subdivision, exclusive of
streets and lots, generally preserved in a natural state or improved to provide
common amenities for the residents of the subdivision. Open space shall be
categorized as either natural resource area open space or community area open
space. Open space is intended to preserve environmentally sensitive areas and
protected resources, provide active and passive recreation facilities,
establish greenways, provide wildlife habitats, facilitate stormwater
management functions, and landscaped buffer yards. Both natural resource area
open space and community area open space can be public or private and would be
annotated as such on the development record plan and/or deed.
OPEN SPACE RATIO (OSR): The proportion of a development required to be left in
open space. It is determined by dividing the area in open space by the base
site area. When applied to resource protection, the open space ratio shall mean
that percentage of the resource feature to be protected and/or preserved in the
total land area in that resource.
OPEN SPACE SUBDIVISION: A development pattern or design technique in which lots
are grouped together rather than spread evenly throughout a parcel as in
conventional subdivision development. Clustering development allows the
remaining land to be used for recreation, open space and the preservation of
natural resources. (See figure below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1678.gif]
OPERATOR: The entity responsible for the day to day operation and maintenance
of the U-SWECS, including any third party subcontractors.
OVERLAY DISTRICT: A district that is applied over other zoning districts and
which may modify the permitted uses or intensity of use.
OWNERS: The entity or entities with an equity interest in the U-SWECS,
including their respective successors and assigns. Owner does not mean the
property owner from whom land is leased for locating the U-SWECS (unless the
property owner has an equity interest in the U-SWECS) or any person holding a
security interest in the U-SWECS solely to secure an extension of credit, or a
person foreclosing on such security interest provided that after foreclosure,
such person seeks to sell the U-SWECS within one year of such event.
PARCEL: See definition of Lot.
PARK: An area open to the general public and reserved for recreational,
educational or scenic purposes.
PARKING SPACE: An area of land, or enclosed within a building, designated for
the parking of one motor vehicle.
PASSIVE RECREATION: Recreational uses, areas or activities oriented to
noncompetitive activities which either require no special equipment or are
natural areas. Bicycle riding, hiking and birdwatching are examples of passive
recreation activities.
PAVED AREA: See definition of Impervious Surfaces.
PEAK HOURS OR PEAK PERIODS: In general, periods from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and from four o'clock (4:00) P.M. to six o'clock
(6:00) P.M. on weekdays. A peak hour is a sixty (60) minute period occurring
within a peak period. Different peak hours may be established by the
department, based on type of development or traffic counts on a street.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A publicly or privately owned right of way or easement for
pedestrian or bicycle use.
PERCOLATION TESTS: See definition of Soil Borings And Percolation Tests.
PERENNIAL STREAM: A channel with banks and a bed within which concentrated
water flows all of the time.
PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE: See definition of surety.
PERMITTED USE: Any use that is or may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations,
and, when applicable, performance standards of this title for the district in
which such use is located.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a site development permit is issued.
PERSON: An individual person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind.
PERVIOUS: A description of a surface that presents an opportunity for
precipitation to infiltrate into the ground.
PLAN, EXPLORATORY SKETCH: An informal plan indicating salient existing features
of a tract and its surroundings and including the general layout of a proposed
subdivision or land development.
PLAN, MAJOR LAND DEVELOPMENT: A plan depicting a major land development which
may include the subdivision of land.
PLAN, MINOR LAND DEVELOPMENT: A plan depicting a minor land development which
may include the subdivision of land.
PLAN, PRELIMINARY: A plan of a subdivision or of a land development, including
all required supplementary data, showing the approximate proposed street and
lot or site layout, or a plan of existing private streets to be dedicated to
public use, as a basis for consideration by the department and the Development
Review Committee prior to the preparation of a record plan.
PLAN, RECORD: A complete subdivision or land development plan, including all
required supplementary data, which defines property lines, proposed streets and
other improvements, and easements; or a plan of private streets to be dedicated
to public use.
PLAN, RECORD STREET: A minor land development plan the sole purpose of which is
to dedicate private streets to public use.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A form of cluster development and residential use type.
See section
8-3-3, "Planned And Cluster Development", of this title.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMITTEE: The Planning and Zoning Committee of the Grundy
County Board.
PLANS, CONSTRUCTION: The architectural or engineering drawings showing the
construction details and the types of material for the physical structures and
facilities, excluding dwelling units, to be installed in conjunction with the
development of the project.
PLOT: See definition of parcel.
PRIMARY STRUCTURE: The structure that one or more persons occupy the majority
of the time on that property for either business or personal reasons. Primary
structure includes structures such as residences, commercial buildings,
hospitals and daycare facilities. Primary structure excludes structures such as
hunting sheds, storage sheds, pool houses, unattached garages and barns.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING OR USE: The main use on a property in terms of size, area,
and function. See definitions of accessory building or structure or accessory
use.
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: A qualified individual who is licensed as a professional
engineer in the State of Illinois.
PROPERTY LINE: See definition of lot line.
PROPERTY LINE (U-SWECS): The boundary line of the area over which the entity
applying for U-SWECS permit has legal control for the purposes of installation
of a U-SWECS. This control may be attained through fee title ownership,
easement, or other appropriate contractual relationship between the project
developer and the landowner.
PUBLIC CONSERVATION LANDS: Land owned in fee title by state or federal agencies
and managed specifically for conservation purposes, including, but not limited
to, state wildlife management areas, state parks, state scientific and natural
areas, federal wildlife refuges and waterfowl production areas. For the
purposes of this definition public conservation lands will also include lands
owned in fee title by nonprofit conservation organizations. Public conservation
lands do not include private lands upon which conservation easements have been
sold to public resource management agencies or nonprofit conservation
organizations.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any improvement, facility or service, together with
customary improvements and their appurtenances, necessary to provide for public
needs such as: streets, alleys, pedestrian walks or paths, storm sewers, flood
control improvements, water supply and distribution facilities, sanitary sewage
disposal and treatment, public utility and energy services.
PUBLIC UTILITIES: Include potable water; stormwater collection and treatment;
sanitary sewage collection and treatment; oil, gas, heat, steam, and
electricity distribution; and data, audio, and video networks that are made
available to customers at their homes and businesses via pipes, wires, or
cables. The phrase does not include individual sewer systems, private wells, on
site stormwater detention or retention, propane storage, or on site geothermal
heating and cooling systems. See also definitions in sections
8-16-2-4, "utilities, neighborhood";
8-16-2-7, "heavy industry" and "utilities, community"; and
8-16-2-8 "utility scale wind energy conversion facilities" of this chapter.
RECREATION, ACTIVE: See definition of Active Recreation.
RECREATION, PASSIVE: See definition of Passive Recreation.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REDEVELOPMENT: A process used to identify previously developed land that is now
vacant, abandoned or underutilized real property where older structures if they
exist are rehabilitated or replaced.
REFORESTATION: Replanting or planting of forest plant materials. Also includes
planting in areas not originally forested for mitigation purposes.
REMOVAL: Cutting vegetation to the ground or stumps, complete extraction, or
killing by spraying.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
RESERVE STRIP: A parcel of ground in separate ownership separating a street
from other adjacent properties or from another street.
RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR STREET: See definition of Street, Residential Collector.
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT: New residential construction or new mixed use
construction with a residential component.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: An agent, tenant, individual, corporation, firm,
partnership, or any other legal entity having a legal or equitable interest in
property or owing a legal duty to same.
RESTORATION: The reasonable rehabilitation of the affected land for useful
purposes and the protection of the natural resources of the surrounding area,
including surface water and groundwater.
RETAINING WALL: A structure which holds an earthen embankment in place.
REVERSE FRONTAGE LOT: A lot extending between and having frontage on two (2)
generally parallel streets. Also referred to as double frontage lot.
REZONING: An amendment to the zoning map.
RIGHT OF WAY: An area of land dedicated for public or private use to
accommodate a transportation system, except that with some older lots in Grundy
County, property lines may extend into the right of way. In no case shall a
right of way be construed to mean an easement.
RIPARIAN BUFFER: An area on either side of a stream or around a body of water
that is protected as open space and principally used to provide natural
filtration of runoff into the water body.
ROAD, ARTERIAL: See definition of Street, Arterial.
ROAD, COLLECTOR: See definition of Street, Collector.
ROAD, LOCAL: See definition of Street, Local.
ROADWAY: The portion of a highway including the cartway and shoulders within a
right of way.
ROOFLINE: The top of a roof or building parapet, excluding any cupolas, pylons,
chimneys, or other minor projections.
ROTOR: An element of a wind energy system that acts as a multi- bladed airfoil
assembly, thereby extracting through rotation, kinetic energy directly from the
wind.
ROTOR DIAMETER: The diameter of the circle described by the moving rotor
blades.
RUNOFF: That portion of precipitation or snowmelt that has not evaporated or
infiltrated into the soil, but flows on the land surface.
SFHA: See definition of Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA) and Floodplain.
SANITARY SEWAGE: Any liquid discharge from a structure or animal containment
area, except roof drains.
SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL, COMMUNITY: A sanitary sewage collection system in
which sewage is carried from individual lots, by a system of pipes, to a small
scale central treatment and disposal plant, generally serving a neighborhood
area.
SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL, ON LOT: A system in which sanitary sewage is
collected from a single use or dwelling unit by a system of pipes and carried
to a septic tank or mechanical treatment unit and an inground disposal area
located within the boundaries of an individual lot.
SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL, PUBLIC: A system in which sanitary sewage and
wastewater are collected from multiple uses or dwelling units, by a system of
pipes, and carried to a central disposal facility, generally serving a
community or region.
SANITARY SEWER LINE: A sanitary sewer collection system in which sewage is
carried from individual lots, by a system of pipes, to a central treatment and
disposal plant, or to other pipes, that run to a central treatment and disposal
plant.
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM: A central treatment and disposal plant and related
systems and pipes, including, but not limited to, sanitary sewer lines.
SCREEN, VISUAL: A physical device and/or landscaping, such as berms, walls or
hedges, used to hide or conceal a use or structure from sight.
SEDIMENT: Soils or other surface materials transported and/or deposited by the
action of wind, water, ice or gravity as a product of erosion.
SEDIMENT AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN: A plan for the control of soil
erosion, sedimentation, stormwater quantity and water quality impacts resulting
from any land disturbing activity.
SELECTIVE CUTTING: The felling of certain, but not all, trees in an area for
the purpose of:
   A.   Removing dead, diseased, damaged, mature or marketable timber;
   B.   Improving the quality of a tree stand or species; or
   C.   Meeting personal domestic needs.
SEPTIC SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL: See definition of Sanitary Sewage Disposal, On Lot.
SEPTIC TANK: A multiple compartment, watertight receptacle which receives
sewage from a building and is designed and constructed so as to permit settling
of solids from the sewage, digestion of the organic matter and discharge of the
liquid portion into a disposal area.
SETBACK: A stated minimum distance on a lot as measured perpendicular from a
lot line or a right of way, whichever is closest to the proposed structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1708.gif]
SHADOW FLICKER: Alternating changes in light intensity caused by the moving
blade of a wind energy system casting shadows on the ground and stationary
objects, such as a window at a dwelling.
SIDEWALK: A pedestrianway extending along, parallel to and within an easement
or the right of way of a public or private street.
SIGN: A name, identification, description, illustration, display or device that
is affixed to, painted or represented on a building, structure or land antenna
that directs attention to a product, place, activity, person, institution, or
business.
   A.   A sign shall also include a permanent sign located within an enclosed
building in such a manner as to be viewed or intended for view primarily from
the exterior of the building, such as a store window.
   B.   However, a sign shall not include the following:
      1.   A court ordered or other official public notice.
      2.   The flag, emblem, or insignia of a nation, unit of government,
school, or religious or charitable institution.
SILTATION CONTROL: The installation of such devices as sediment ponds, bales of
straw, fencing, siltation webbing, sodding, seeding and mulching, or other
devices to prevent silting of abutting properties and roadways during the
period of construction, up to and including, such times as permanent ground
cover is attained.
SINGLE LOT DEVELOPMENT: A development consisting of one or more buildings to be
erected on a platted parcel of land or a single lot which is part of a
subdivision, intended to be separately owned, developed and otherwise used as a
unit.
SITE: The lot on which the residence or manufactured home is located for
habitation. See definition of Manufactured Home Site.
SITE ANALYSIS PLAN: For all major residential subdivisions, the applicant shall
be required to submit a site analysis plan as the first phase of the
exploratory sketch plan review process. The site analysis plan shall serve as a
basis for the planning process and shall be used to determine the best areas of
the site for open space preservation, land conservation and development. The
site analysis plan allows both the applicant and the department the opportunity
to utilize the natural site conditions to determine how the development of each
tract can be designed to minimize environmental degradation while achieving
highest possible community character design standards.
SITE DEVELOPMENT: Altering terrain and/or vegetation and constructing
improvements.
SITE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A properly executed and legally binding contract
between the developer of a parcel of land and Grundy County to proceed with
development as noted therein.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit issued by the county for the construction or
alteration of ground improvements and structures for the control of erosion,
runoff and grading.
SITE PLAN: A plan or drawing showing the location of buildings, parking, or
other elements that is used for the issuing of approvals other than subdivision
plans or land developments. The drawings shall show sufficient detail to enable
the department to determine whether the standard requiring a site plan has been
met.
SLOPE, STEEP: The term "slope" is defined as the vertical change in elevation
divided by the horizontal distance over which that vertical change occurs. The
steep slope area consists of two (2) areas which are delineated and defined as
follows:
   Moderate Slope: Those of fifteen (15) to twenty five percent (25%) slope as
based on a site survey, where such slope exists in any continuous horizontal
span of fifty feet (50') or more. These definitions do not include manmade
steep slopes resulting from the implementation of an approved plan.
   Prohibitive Slope: Those of greater than twenty five percent (25%) slope as
based on a site survey, where such slope exists in any continuous horizontal
span of fifty feet (50') or more.
SOIL BORINGS AND PERCOLATION TESTS: Field tests conducted and used in judging
the suitability of soil for on site, subsurface sewerage and seepage systems.
The borings indicate the soil formations penetrated and groundwater conditions.
The percolation tests give an indication of the absorptive capacity of the soil
and provide a basis for the design of seepage facilities.
SOIL STABILIZING FUNCTION: A plant or structure which encourages resistance of
soil to erosion, soil creep or other movement which results in net loss of soil
from an area.
SOUND PRESSURE: Average rate at which sound energy is transmitted through a
unit area in a specified direction. The pressure of the sound measured at a
receiver.
SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: The sound pressure mapped to a logarithmic scale and
reported in decibels (dB).
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS (SFHA): The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any
given year.
SPECIAL USE: A use having some special impact that requires careful review and
approval of the location, design, configuration, and the desirability of
allowing its establishment on any given site based on the conditions stated in
section
8-2-5 of this title.
STABILIZATION: The prevention of soil erosion by surface runoff or wind through
the establishment of vegetative or structural soil coverage measures. Examples
include, but are not limited to, straw mulch with temporary or permanent
vegetation, wood chips and stone or gravel ground cover.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other
improvement, was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of
excavation or placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a
substantial improvement, actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STORY, FIRST: The ground floor story of a building, provided its floor level is
not more than four feet (4') below the mean lot level adjacent to the
foundation.
STORY, HALF: A story under a sloping roof at the top of the building, the floor
of which is not more than two feet (2') below the wall plate.
STREET: A strip of land, comprising the entire area within the right of way,
intended for use as a means of vehicular and pedestrian circulation to provide
access to more than one lot. However, the establishment of a common driveway
for access purposes for no more than four (4) separate parcels contiguous to
one another shall not be considered a street as this term is defined.
STREET, ARTERIAL: Streets that generally carry high traffic volumes over longer
distances. Arterial streets generally connect other arterials and/or
collectors. Although arterial streets sometime connect local streets, they
rarely provide direct access to individual lots. Streets classified as arterial
on the most recent version of the Grundy County comprehensive plan are
considered arterial streets in this UDO.
STREET, COLLECTOR: Streets that generally carry medium traffic volumes over
shorter distances. Although collector streets connect all types of streets,
they rarely provide direct access to individual lots. Streets classified as
collector on the most recent version of the Grundy County comprehensive plan
are considered collector streets in this UDO.
STREET, CUL-DE-SAC: A short, independent, minor street having only one point of
entrance and exit, terminating in a circular turnaround or other approved
termination.
STREET FRONTAGE: The linear measurement of a parcel along a street line,
private road or right of way to which the parcel abuts.
STREET FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION: The ranking of streets in a hierarchy, based
on the type of service they provide. Streets comprise a network, with
individual streets carrying traffic within the network. As links in a network,
streets provide two (2) types of service mobility for through traffic and
access to adjacent lands. Streets are ranked according to the proportion of
each type of service they perform. Arterial streets, which emphasize mobility,
are at the highest level of the street hierarchy. Collector streets, which
provide both mobility and access, are in the middle of the hierarchy. Local
streets, which emphasize access, are at the lowest level of the street
hierarchy. This UDO recognizes the functional classification of individual
streets on the most recent Grundy County comprehensive plan.
STREET LINE: A property line of a lot which coincides with a line indicating
the limits of an existing or proposed right of way.
STREET, LOCAL: Streets that generally carry low traffic volumes over short
distances. Local streets generally provide access to adjacent lots and connect
to other local and/or collector streets. Local streets rarely provide direct
access to arterial streets. Streets classified as local on the most recent
version of the Grundy County comprehensive plan are considered local streets in
this title.
STREET, LOCAL RESIDENTIAL ACCESS: A street that provides access to individual
residential lots and abutting properties.
STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS: A local street, parallel and adjacent to an arterial
street, but separated from it by a long strip, which provides access to
abutting properties and control of intersections with the major street.
STREET, MINOR: See definition of Street, Local.
STREET, PRIVATE: Any street right of way not dedicated to public use.
STREET, PUBLIC: Any street right of way dedicated to public use or maintained
by the state, county, or any municipal or township government.
STREET, RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR: A street that serves or is designed to serve as
the connection from minor streets in residential areas to the arterial street
system (such as the main entrance street of a residential subdivision that
includes a network of lesser streets) or as a secondary connection between
arterial streets that runs through or among residential neighborhoods.
STREET RIGHT OF WAY: See definitions of Street and Right Of Way.
STRIPPING: Any activity which removes the vegetative surface cover; including
tree removal, clearing, and storage or removal of topsoil.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building such
as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders and floor joists, ceiling joists,
roof rafters or stairways.
STRUCTURE: Any manmade object having an ascertainable stationary location on
land or in water, whether or not affixed to the land.
STRUCTURE, PERMANENT: A structure placed on or in the ground, or attached to
another structure in a fixed position.
STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY: A structure that is designed to be repeatedly erected or
inflated, tents and inflatable structures, or buildings that are picked up and
moved.
SUBDIVISION:
   A.   The division or redivision of a lot, tract, or parcel of land, by any
means, including by means of a plan or a description by metes and bounds, into
two (2) or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land, for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, of the transfer of ownership or of
building development, exempting, however, the division of land for agricultural
purposes into parcels of more than ten (10) acres not involving any new streets
or easements of access, divisions of property by testamentary or intestate
provision, or division of property under court order.
   B.   The division or allocation of land for the opening, widening or
extension of any street or streets, or the division or allocation of land as
open spaces for common use by owners, occupants or leaseholders, or as
easements for the extension and maintenance of public sewer, water supply,
storm drainage or other public facilities.
   C.   The elimination of one or more lot lines through the recordation of a
deed that eliminates common property lines shall not be considered subdivision
for purposes of this UDO, provided the resulting lot(s) is in conformance with
this UDO. The deed shall indicate that the purpose of this deed is to comply
with the definition of subdivision in chapter 6, "Subdivisions And Land
Development", of this title, exempting subdivision review to eliminate one or
more interior division lines affecting the herein described property.
SUBDIVISION, MAJOR: See definition of Major Land Development.
SUBDIVISION, MINOR: See definition of Minor Land Development.
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS: Chapter 6, "Subdivisions And Land Development", of
this title.
SUBSTANTIAL CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Subdivisions: Payment of surety, the clearing and grading of the site,
installation of roads and utilities and placing of initial foundations.
   B.   Land Developments: Installation of parking, circulation, stormwater
facilities and installation of foundations.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place during the life of the building in
which the cumulative percentage of improvements:
   Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started, or
   Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
   "Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration
of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done. The term does
not include:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or the Illinois register of historic places.
SUBSTANTIAL REHABILITATION: The reconstruction, enlargement, installation,
repair, alteration, improvement or renovation of a building, structure, or
portion thereof.
SUBSTANTIAL REPAIR: See definition of Substantial Improvement.
SUBSTATIONS: Any electrical facility designed to convert electricity produced
by wind turbines to a voltage greater than thirty five thousand (35,000) kV for
interconnection with high voltage transmission lines shall be located outside
of the road right of way.
SUMPS: A point of comparatively low elevation that cannot be drained by means
of surface flow.
SURETY: A form of financial guarantee that requires improvements to be made by
providing the county with the resources to install the improvements should the
developer fail to do so. These include, bonds, cash, letters of credit, or
other financial instruments approved by the county attorney.
SURFACE WATER: Natural or artificial bodies of water greater than one acre in
extent at the normal annual water level, as depicted on USGS topographic
quadrangles and/or as determined by on site surveys by a registered surveyor,
landscape architect or engineer. Excluded from this definition are retention
basins or other stormwater management facilities, farm ponds or other
facilities associated with agricultural operations, sewage lagoons and other
facilities for which normal maintenance and repair is necessary.
SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered by and licensed to practice in the state
of Illinois.
TOP OF BANK: A point above the mean water surface of a watercourse which
defines the maximum depth of channel flow in the watercourse. It is either
determined visually or computed as an elevation using the peak rate of runoff
from a 2-year storm event.
TOPOGRAPHY: The characteristics of a parcel of land with respect to elevation.
TOWER: The monopole or lattice structure freestanding or guyed structure that
supports a wind turbine generator.
TOWER HEIGHT: The total height of the U-SWECS exclusive of the rotor blades.
TRANSMISSION LINE: Those electrical power lines that carry voltages of at least
sixty nine thousand (69,000) volts (69 kV) and are primarily used to carry
electric energy over medium to long distances rather than directly
interconnecting and supplying electric energy to retail customers.
TRAVEL TRAILER: See definition of Recreational Vehicle Or Travel Trailer.
TREE, CANOPY: A tree whose leaves would occupy the upper level of a forest in a
natural ecological situation. These trees are also called shade trees, and
typically reach heights of fifty (50) to one hundred feet (100') at maturity.
TREE, UNDERSTORY: A tree whose leaves would occupy the intermediate level of a
forest in a natural ecological situation. They are also found as dominant
species in old field succession. These trees are also called ornamental trees.
U-SWECS: Utility scale wind energy conversion systems shall mean any device
that converts wind energy into electricity through the use of wind turbine
generator which includes the turbine, blade, tower base and pad transformer, if
any.
U-SWECS TOWER: The support structure to which the nacelle and rotor are
attached, freestanding or guyed structure that supports a wind turbine
generator.
UNDERGROUND PETROLEUM STORAGE: Any underground storage vessel, including the
underground pipes connected thereto, which is used to contain petroleum
products including heating oil and diesel fuel, and the volume of which,
including the volume of the underground pipes connected thereto, is ten percent
(10%) or more beneath the surface of the ground.
UNDERSTORY TREE: See definition of Tree, Understory.
UNLAWFUL ACTS: The violation of any note, regulation, order, permit condition
or provision of the UDO.
USE, ACCESSORY: See definition of Accessory Use.
USE, PERMITTED: See definition of Permitted Use.
USE, PRINCIPAL: See definition of Principal Building Or Use.
UTILITY: Publicly or investor owned or regulated entity that provides services
to the general public utilities, e.g., water, sewer, communications, waste
management, cable, gas and electric.
VACANT: Land on which there are no structures or only structures which are
secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself.
VARIANCE: Relief from the standards of this UDO.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided.
VISUAL AMENITY: Any type of visible feature which the observer finds attractive
or pleasing to the eye.
WATER BODY: Any watercourse or lake defined by a bank or shore in which water
can be found.
WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM:
   A.   Community: A system for supplying and distributing water from a common
source to two (2) or more dwellings or other buildings within a single
neighborhood.
   B.   On Site: A system for supplying and distributing water to a single
dwelling or other building from a source located on the same lot.
   C.   Public: A system for supplying and distributing water from a common
source to dwellings and other buildings, but generally not confined to one
neighborhood.
WATER QUALITY: Those characteristics of stormwater runoff, usually from a land
disturbing activity that relate to the chemical, physical, biological or
radiological integrity of water.
WATER TABLE: The level below the surface at which the ground is saturated by
water.
WATERCOURSE: A stream channel (perennial, intermittent, mapped or unmapped)
with banks and a bed within which concentrated water flows.
WATERSHED: The total or partial drainage area contributing stormwater runoff to
a single point.
WETLAND: Those areas inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions; or areas that are defined and delineated in
accordance with the "Federal Manual For Identifying And Delineating
Jurisdictional Wetlands" dated January 10, 1989, and as may be amended from
time to time; or as further defined and delineated by the U.S. army corps of
engineers, the U.S. environmental Protection Agency, or the Illinois Department
of Conservation.
WETLAND DELINEATION AND REPORT: An on site method or process for identifying
wetlands as described in the "Corps of Engineers Wetland Delineation Manual",
technical report: Y-87-1, from 1987, and as may be amended from time to time.
The report shall be prepared by a person with professional experience and
knowledge in wetlands identification and shall analyze a site for the existence
and extent of wetlands. When such a delineation and report is required as part
of a land use application, such report and delineation may be required to be
updated and revised if the original report was prepared more than three (3)
years prior to the date of submission of the land use application.
WILDLIFE HABITAT: A community of plants that provide food, water, cover,
nesting, and foraging or feeding conditions necessary to maintain populations
of animals.
WIND SITE ASSESSMENT: An assessment to determine the wind speeds at a specific
area and the feasibility of using that site for construction of a wind energy
system.
WIND TURBINE: Any piece of electrical generating equipment that converts the
kinetic energy of blowing wind into electrical energy through the use of air
foils or similar devices to capture the wind.
WOODLAND: See definition of forest.
YARD: An unoccupied space open to the sky on the same lot with a building or
structure.
YARD, CORNER LOT: Corner lots shall be considered to have one front yard based
upon street access. Rear yard requirements shall apply to the yard opposite the
front street line; the remaining street yard shall be considered a side yard
and shall be subject to side yard requirements.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending the full width of the lot between the rear lot
line and the parts of the principal building erected thereon. For a corner lot,
the rear yard shall not extend beyond the building setback line on the side
street.
YARD, SIDE: A yard between the parts of the principal building and the adjacent
side line of the lot and extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
YARD, STREET: A yard extending the full width of the lot between the street
line and the parts of the principal building erected thereon setting back from
and nearest such street line. (This is commonly referred to as the "front"
yard.)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS: The Grundy Zoning Board of Appeals.
ZONING DISTRICT: A designation shown on the zoning map as being in a district
enumerated in chapter 1 of this title in which a specific set of zoning
standards apply. The term may refer to the standards or an area so mapped. The
term is also analogous with zoning classification or designation.
ZONING MAP: The map(s) showing the location and boundaries of the zoning
districts established by this title. These maps are entitled, "official zoning
map of Grundy County".
ZONING OFFICER: The Grundy County Zoning Officer.
ZONING PERMIT: A written permit issued by the department that certifies that
the proposed use of the land will be in compliance with this title.
ZONING REGULATIONS: Chapters 1 through 17 of this title. (Ord. 10-001, 1-12-
2010; amd. Ord. 2012-012, 4-10-2012; Ord. 2012-025, 8-14-2012; Ord. 2018-012,
6-12-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 605.
CHAPTER 17
APPENDICES
SECTION:
8-17-1: Appendix A, Exhibits
8-17-1-1: Exhibit 1, Residential Street Hierarchy; Definition
8-17-1-2: Exhibit 2, Pavement And Right Of Way Requirements And Dimensions
8-17-1-3: Exhibit 3, Street Grade And Geometric Standards
8-17-1-4: Exhibit 4, Standard Street Sections
8-17-1-5: Exhibit 5, Driveway Connections; Private Road And Driveway Standards
8-17-2: Appendix B, Required Certificates
8-17-1: APPENDIX A, EXHIBITS:
8-17-1-1: EXHIBIT 1, RESIDENTIAL STREET HIERARCHY; DEFINITION:
   1) Residential Access Street: Lowest order of residential streets. Provides
frontage for access to lots, and carries traffic having destination or origin
on the street itself; designed to carry the least amount of traffic at the
lowest speed; all, or the maximum number of housing units, shall front on this
class of street.
 
Guideline Maximum ADT
250 (each loop)
250 (total)
 
   2) Residential Subcollector Street: Middle order of residential streets.
Provides frontage for access to lots, and carries traffic of adjoining
residential access streets; designed to carry somewhat higher traffic volumes
with traffic limited to motorists having origin or destination within the
immediate neighborhood; is not intended to interconnect adjoining neighborhoods
or subdivisions and should not carry regional through traffic.
 
Guideline Maximum ADT
500 (each loop)
1,000 (total)
 
   3) Residential Collector Street: Highest order of residential streets.
Conducts and distributes traffic between lower order residential streets and
higher order streets/arterials and expressways; carries the largest volume of
traffic at high speeds; function is to promote free traffic flow; therefore,
parking and direct access to homes from this level of street should be
prohibited; collectors should be designed so that they cannot be used as
shortcuts by non-neighborhood traffic.
 
Guideline Maximum ADT
3,000 (total)
 
   4) Arterial Street: A higher order, interregional road in the street
hierarchy. Conveys traffic between centers; should be excluded from residential
areas.
 
Guideline Maximum ADT
3,000+
 
   5) Special Purpose Streets:
      a) Rural Residential Lane: A street serving a very low density area
(minimum 2 acre zoning); the maximum ADT level limits the number of single-
family homes on this road to twenty (20).
 
Guideline Maximum ADT
200
 
      b) Cul-De-Sac Street: A street with a single means of ingress and egress
and having a turnaround. Design of turnaround may vary; cul-de-sacs shall be
classified and designed according to anticipated ADT level; a residential
access cul-de-sac will have a maximum ADT level of two hundred fifty (250), and
a subcollector cul-de-sac will have a maximum ADT level of five hundred (500).
 
Guideline Maximum ADT
250 (residential access total)
500 (subcollector)
 
      c) Marginal Access Street: A service street that runs parallel to a
higher order street and provides access to five hundred (500) abutting
properties and separation from through traffic; may be designed as residential
access street or subcollector according to anticipated daily traffic.
 
Guideline Maximum ADT
500 (residential access total)
500 (subcollector)
 
      d) Divided Streets: Streets may be required to be divided in order to
provide alternate emergency access, to protect environmental features, or to
avoid grade changes. Design standards should be applied to the combined
dimensions of the two (2) street segments as required by the street class.
 
Guideline Maximum ADT
500 (residential access total)
1,000 (subcollector total)
3,000 (collector total)
 
      e) Stub Street: A portion of a street which has been approved in its
entirety; permitted as part of phase development; may be required if part of an
overall master plan.
 
Guideline Maximum ADT
500 (residential access total)
1,000 (subcollector total)
3,000 (collector total)
 
(Res. 91-096, 12-10-1991; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-17-1-2: EXHIBIT 2, PAVEMENT AND RIGHT OF WAY REQUIREMENTS AND DIMENSIONS:
Street Category1 Minimum Pavement Curb Or      Sidewalk Minimum Right Of Way
                 Width6           Shoulder7,11          Width
Street          Minimum         Curb Or         Sidewalk       Minimum Right Of
Category1       Pavement Width6 Shoulder7,11                   Way Width
Residential                                                  
Access
Low intensity   22 feet         6 foot shoulder Not required10 66 feet
Medium          28 feet         Curb            Sidewalk (one  60 feet
intensity                                       side)
High intensity                                               
On street       28 feet         Curb            Sidewalk (each 60 feet
parking                                         side)
Off street      25 feet         Curb            Sidewalk (each 60 feet
parking                                         side)
               22 feet         6 foot                        66 feet
                                shoulder9
Residential                                                  
Subcollector
Low intensity   22 feet         6 foot shoulder Not required10 66 feet
Medium          28 feet         Curb            Sidewalk (one  60 feet
intensity                                       side)
High Intensity  28 feet         Curb            Sidewalk (each 60 feet
                                                side)
One side        36 feet         Curb            Sidewalk (each 66 feet
parking                                         side)
Two side street 25 feet         Curb            Sidewalk (each 60 feet
parking                                         side)
Off street      22 feet         6 foot                        66 feet
parking                         shoulder9
Residential                                                  
Collector8
Low intensity   24 feet         8 foot shoulder Not required10 70 feet
Medium          27 feet         Curb            Sidewalk (each 60 feet
intensity                                       side)
               24 feet         8 foot                        70 feet
                                shoulder9
High intensity  27 feet         Curb            Sidewalk (each 60 feet
                                                side)
               24 feet         8 foot                        70 feet
                                shoulder9
Commercial/
Industrial                                                   
Access
Off street      24 feet         8 foot shoulder Not required10 70 feet
parking
               27 feet         Curb            Sidewalk (one  60 feet
                                                side)
On street       32 feet         8 foot shoulder Not required10 80 feet
parking
               32 feet         Curb            Sidewalk (one  60 feet
                                                side)
Special Purpose                                              
Rural
residential     20 feet         6 foot shoulder Not required10 66 feet
lane
Cul-de-sac2                                                  
Marginal                                                     
access3
Divided street4                                              
Stub street5                                                 
 
Notes:
   1.   See section
8-17-1-1 of this chapter for definition of street hierarchy and subsection
8-6-3-4C2 of this title for definition of low, medium, and high intensity of
development.
   2.    Pavement and right of way widths of cul-de-sac stems and right of way
requirements shall conform to standards of either residential access or
subcollector streets as dictated by anticipated average daily traffic. Cul-de-
sac turnarounds shall have a minimum pavement radius of 50 feet. Minimum cul-
de-sac right of way radius shall be 60 feet with pavement curbs and 70 feet
with roadside swales. Alternative type turnarounds may be considered in very
low traffic situations.
   3.    Pavement and right of way widths of marginal access streets and right
of way requirements should conform to the standards of either residential
access or subcollector streets as dictated by anticipated daily traffic. If the
classification is a subcollector requiring a 36 foot pavement, pavement width
may be reduced to 28 feet since frontage is restricted to one side of the
street.
   4.    Pavement and right of way widths of divided streets and right of way
requirements should conform to the standards of street classification as
dictated by anticipated average daily traffic and be applied to aggregate
dimensions of the 2 street segments.
   5.    Pavement and right of way widths of stems and right of way
requirements should conform to the standards of street classification as
dictated by anticipated daily traffic.
   6.    Pavement width measured from edge to edge of surface or when curbs are
present, from back to back of curb.
   7.    Curbs may also be required as indicated in subsection
8-6-3-4D1b of this title.
   8.    Pavement width assumptions - street parking and direct access
(driveways) to lots and buildings are prohibited.
   9.    Use of shoulders is allowable only when: 1) note 8 conditions are met;
and 2) sidewalk requirement is waived, street right of way is increased to
provide space for sidewalks and drainage swales or sidewalks are provided
outside of the street right of way.
   10.    Sidewalks or paved paths may be required in specific situations
depending on probable pedestrian traffic and proximity of and need for access
to schools, shopping and other facilities.
   11.    Shoulders shall consist of the following widths of aggregate and
earth material:
 
Street Category              Aggregate Earth  Total
Residential access           2 feet    4 feet 6 feet
Residential subcollector     4 feet    2 feet 6 feet
Residential collector        6 feet    2 feet 8 feet
Commercial/industrial access 4 feet    2 feet 6 feet
Rural lane                   2 feet    4 feet 6 feet
 
(Res. 91-096, 12-10-1991; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-17-1-3: EXHIBIT 3, STREET GRADE AND GEOMETRIC STANDARDS:
          Local Street Hierarchy
Standards Rural Lane Cul-De-Sac Residential Access Residential  Residential
                                Street             Subcollector Collector
                  Local Street Hierarchy
Standards         Rural Lane Cul-De-Sac Residential   Residential  Residential
                                        Access Street Subcollector Collector
Minimum grade(3)  0.5%       0.5%       0.5%          0.5%         0.5%
Maximum grade     10%        10%        8%            8%           7%
Maximum grade
within 50 ft. of  4%         4%         4%            4%           2%
intersection
Minimum length                                                  
vertical curve(1)
Crest             30A        20A        20A           30A          80A
Sag               40A        30A        30A           40A          70A
Minimum           280 ft.    170 ft.    170 ft.       280 ft.      600 ft.(2)
centerline radius
Minimum tangent
length between    150 ft.    100 ft.    100 ft.       150 ft.      250 ft.
reverse curves
Minimum edge      20 ft.     25 ft.     25 ft.        30 ft.       35 ft.
radii
 
Notes:
   (1)    "A" = algebraic difference in grades (percent).
   (2)    Collector radius based on 40 mph and no super elevation. Radius may
be reduced if design speed is reduced and/or super elevation is provided.
   (3)    Minimum grade for streets with curb and gutter edging. Minimum grade
for streets with shoulder edging and drainage swales may be a 0.0 percent
grade.
(Res. 91-096, 12-10-1991; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-17-1-4: EXHIBIT 4, STANDARD STREET SECTIONS:
FIGURE 1
RESIDENTIAL ACCESS STREET
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1680.gif]
FIGURE 2
RESIDENTIAL SUBCOLLECTOR STREET
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1682.gif]
   (1)   Widths of high intensity development streets vary according to
allowable on street parking conditions. See section
8-17-1-2 of this chapter.
   (2)   Parkway width varies according to street width.
   (3)   Base course thickness dependent on design traffic volume.
FIGURE 3
RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR STREET
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1684.gif]
FIGURE 4
COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL ACCESS STREET
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1686.gif]
   (1)   Assumes no on street parking. If parking allowed, increase pavement
width to 32 feet and right of way to 80 feet.
   (2)   Required pavement section based on ADT = 400 with SU and MU trucks =
10% each. If traffic volumes or truck percentages are more than these base
amounts, increase the pavement structure section to suit the traffic
conditions.
   (3)   An equivalent stabilized base (asphalt, cement or BAM) may be used
instead of the aggregate base indicated.
(Res. 91-096, 12-10-1991; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 10-001, 1-12-2010)
8-17-1-5: EXHIBIT 5, DRIVEWAY CONNECTIONS; PRIVATE ROAD AND DRIVEWAY STANDARDS:
FIGURE 1
TYPICAL DRIVEWAY CONNECTIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1688.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1690.gif]
Notes:
   1.    Culvert diameter shall be as required by local drainage conditions.
Minimum size shall be 12 inch diameter.
   2.    Culverts shall be of concrete, corrugated metal or plastic pipe
material as specifically approved by the governing county or township highway
department. Headwalls will not be allowed.
   3.    Culvert length shall be sufficient to provide for the established
driveway width, 2:1 shoulders and 3:1 side slopes.
   4.    Driveways shall be sloped to a low point over the street swale culvert
unless the existing swale is too shallow and cannot be regraded to an adequate
depth.
   5.    Driveway radius requirements shall be dependent on specific street and
driveway dimensions and traffic conditions. In some cases, a turning lane may
be required.
   6.   Driveway pavement materials and thickness (minimum requirements) within
the street right of way shall be as follows:
Residential: 12 inches of aggregate base material or 2 inches of bituminous
concrete with 6 inches of aggregate base or 4 inches of aggregate base material
with 5 inches of concrete and wire mesh.
Nonresidential: 4 inches of aggregate subbase, 9 inches of bituminous base
course, 21/2 inches bituminous binder course, and 11/2 inches bituminous
surface course or 4 inches of aggregate base with 6 inches of concrete and wire
mesh.
Concrete driveways should extend no closer than 3 feet from the edge of the
public road or street pavement. Bituminous concrete shall then be used to pave
the remaining driveway to the edge of the road.
FIGURE 2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1692.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1694.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1696.gif]
FIGURE 3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/edecde497b9ce711ede169047b5c4922514ac648/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1698.gif]
(Res. 91-096, 12-10-1991; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 06-020, 11-14-2006; Ord. 10-001,
1-12-2010; Ord. 2014-006, 4-8-2014)
8-17-2: APPENDIX B, REQUIRED CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Preliminary Plats:
      MUNICIPAL PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL
   If the proposed subdivision lies within 11/2 miles of the municipality, the
Preliminary Plat must be approved by the Planning Commission of that
municipality. A certificate indicating such approval, to be signed by the
Chairman, shall be placed on the Plat. The following wording is suggested:
      STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      County of Grundy   )
   Approved by the Planning Commission of the (Municipality) of (name) this
(day) of (month), (year).
                  (signature)   
                  Chairman
      COUNTY BOARD CERTIFICATE
   A certificate shall be provided to indicate approval of the preliminary plat
by the Grundy County board. Space for the signature of the county board
chairman and the county clerk shall be provided. The following wording is
suggested:
      STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      County of Grundy    )
   Approved by the County Board of Grundy County, Illinois, this       day of
               , 20     , A.D.
               Chairman, Grundy County Board
   Attest:            
            Grundy County Clerk
      ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS CERTIFICATE
   A certificate shall be provided to indicate approval of the preliminary plat
by the Grundy County zoning board of appeals. Space for the signature of the
county board chairman and the county clerk shall be provided. The following
wording is suggested:
      STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      County of Grundy    )
   Approved by the Zoning Board of Appeals of Grundy County, Illinois, This
      day of                , 20     
   Chairman, Grundy County Zoning Board of Appeals
   B.   Final Plat:
      CERTIFICATE INDICATING PROXIMITY TO MUNICIPALITIES
   A certificate indicating the proximity of the subdivision to nearby
municipalities shall be placed on the final plat. The certificate shall list
all municipalities within eleven (11) miles of the subdivision, or if there are
none, shall so state. The certificate shall be signed by the surveyor who
prepared the plat. The following alternative wordings are suggested, depending
on which situation exists:
   A. This Plat of subdivision does not lie within 11 miles of any existing
corporate municipalities.
               (signature)   
            Registered Illinois Land Surveyor
   B. This plat of subdivision lies within 11 miles of the corporate
municipality(ies) of  (list)
               (signature)   
            Registered Illinois Land Surveyor
      OWNER'S CERTIFICATE AND NOTARY CERTIFICATE
   A certificate shall be placed on the final plat indicating the ownership of
the land being subdivided. A notary certificate shall be placed beneath the
owner's certificate in witness of the owner's signature. The following general
wording of the two (2) certificates is suggested:
         OWNER'S CERTIFICATE
      STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      County of Grundy   )
   This is to certify that the undersigned,  (list name) , is (are) the legal
owners(s) of record of the land described on the plat hereon drawn and shown
hereon as subdivided, and that he (they) has (have) caused said land to be
surveyed, subdivided, staked, and platted as shown hereon, for the purpose of
having this plat recorded as provided by law.
   In witness whereof I (we) have hereunto set my (our) hand(s) and Seal(s)
this         day                 of A.D. 20     .
                     (Seal)
                     (Seal)
         NOTARY CERTIFICATE
      STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      County of Grundy   )
   I,                                     Notary Public in and for said County
and State aforesaid, do hereby certify that  (list names) , personally known to
me to be the same person(s) whose name(s) is (are) subscribed to the foregoing
instrument as such owner(s) appeared before me this day in person and
acknowledged that he (they) signed and delivered the annexed plat at his
(their) own free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
   Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this         day of            
20      A.D., at                                  Illinois.
                              
               Notary Public, My Commission Expires
   COUNTY ENGINEER
   STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
   County of Grundy    )
   I,                               , County Engineer of the County of Grundy,
Illinois, hereby certify that the land improvements described in the annexed
plat, and the plans and specifications therefor meet the minimum requirements
of said County.
   Given under my hand and seal, this                    day            of
20     .
               County Engineer
      ROAD COMMISSIONER'S CERTIFICATE    AND NOTARY CERTIFICATION
   All final plats must be approved by the road commissioner for each political
township in which the subdivision lies. A certificate indicating that the road
commissioner has approved the final plat along with a notary certificate shall
be required. The following wording is suggested for the road commissioner and
notary public certificate:
   I,  (name)  do hereby certify that this Final Plat and accompanying
engineering drawings meet all requirements of the Grundy County Subdivision
Ordinance pertaining to roads. I hereby agree to accept and maintain the roads
and streets of this subdivision upon their completion in accordance with the
laws of the State of Illinois.
            (Name) Township Road Commissioner
   Given under my hand and Seal, this         day of        , 20      at
                           , Illinois.
                  Commission
   NOTE:
   If interior subdivision roads abut upon county or state highways, an
additional certificate of acceptance signed by either the county superintendent
of highways or a representative of the Illinois department of transportation
(as appropriate) shall be placed upon the plat.
      SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
   The surveyor who prepared the final plat shall place thereon a certificate
of substantially the following wording:
      STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      County of Grundy   )
   This is to certify that I,                              , registered
Illinois Land Surveyor, No.                      have surveyed and subdivided
the property as described and as shown by the annexed plat, which is a correct
representation of said survey and subdivision. All distances are shown in feet
and decimals thereof.
   Given under my hand and seal at                             , Illinois, this
           day of                 , 20    .
      CERTIFICATE REGARDING FLOOD HAZARD
   In accordance with the counties code, 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-
5029, the surveyor shall determine if any part of the proposed subdivision lies
within a flood hazard area as identified by the federal emergency management
agency. An appropriate certificate shall be placed on the plat and signed by
the surveyor. The following wording is suggested, depending on which situation
exists:
   A. I certify that none of the above described property is located in a flood
hazard area as identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
               (signature)   
            Illinois Registered Land Surveyor
   B. I certify that none of the above described property is located in a flood
hazard area as identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency except as
indicated.
               (signature)   
            Illinois Registered Land Surveyor
            CERTIFICATES REGARDING MONUMENTS
   The plat act requires the surveyor to set certain subdivision monuments at
the time of making his survey, and to describe them on the plat. The following
certificate, to be signed by the surveyor, shall be placed on the final plat to
indicate that all monuments have been set and described as required by statute.
   This is to certify that I,                               , a Registered
Illinois Land Surveyor, No                have set all subdivision monuments
and described them on this Final Plat as required by the Plat Act (765 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 205/0.01 et seq.).
               Registered Illinois Land Surveyor
            LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT CERTIFICATE
The plat act, as amended January 1, 1988, requires the local health department,
if one exists, to sign a plat with respect to sewage disposal systems if any
part of the platted land will not be served by a public sewer system. The
following wording is suggested:
No public sewer system exists to serve this subdivision. Sewerage system
suitability has been determined for all platted lots in accordance with the
pertinent sections of the Grundy County Subdivision Ordinance.
                  (signature)   
               Public Health Administrator
            COUNTY CLERK'S CERTIFICATE
The county clerk shall make a tax search of the land being subdivided. A
certificate is required on all final plats, indicating that any back taxes and
the required tax search fee have been paid. The following is suggested:
      STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      County of Grundy   )
County Clerk in Grundy County, Illinois, does hereby certify that there are no
delinquent general taxes, no unpaid current general taxes, no unpaid forfeited
taxes, and no redeemable tax against any of the land included in the annexed
plat.
I further certify that I have received all statutory fees in connection with
the annexed plat.
Given under my hand and seal of the County at Morris, Illinois this         
day of                   20     .
                  County Clerk
            ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS CERTIFICATE
A certificate shall be placed on the final plat to indicate the approval of the
zoning board of appeals. The following wording is suggested:
      STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      County of Grundy   )
Approval this  (date)  day of  (month), (year)
                  Zoning Board of Appeals
                  Chairman
                  Plat Officer
            CERTIFICATE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
   STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
   County of Grundy   )
I,                            County Treasurer of the County of Grundy, do
hereby certify that there are no delinquent or unpaid current or forfeited
special assessments or any deferred installments thereof that have been
appointed against the tract of land included in the plat.
Given under my hand and seal of the County at Morris, Illinois, this        
day of                , 20       .
                  County Treasurer
            COUNTY BOARD CERTIFICATE
A certificate shall be provided to indicate approval of the final plat by the
Grundy County board. Space for the signature of the county board chairman and
the county clerk shall be provided. The following wording is suggested:
      STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      County of Grundy   )
Approved by the County Board of Grundy County, Illinois, this          day of
             , 20       .
                         
               Chairman, Grundy County Board
               Grundy County Clerk
(Ord. 2018-012, 6-12-2018)
