CITY OF HAMILTON, ILLINOIS
   CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through Ord. 4 (Series 2023-2024), passed 8-21-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Organic Law
   
10.03   Definitions
   
10.04   Section headings
   
10.05   Rules of construction
   
10.06   Official time
   
10.07   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Conflicting provisions
   
10.10   Amendments to code
   
10.11   Severability
   
10.12   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.13   Errors and omissions
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Ordinances saved
   
10.17   Technical codes
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the City of Hamilton shall be designated as the
Code of Hamilton and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 ORGANIC LAW.
   Whereas on September 9, 1872, pursuant to state statutes, an election was
duly called and held whereby a majority of the voters of the city voted for the
adoption of city organization under the general law, being an act of the
General Assembly of the state, approved April 10, 1872, entitled “An Act to
Provide for the Incorporation of Cities and Villages” as the organic law of
said city. Now, therefore, said Act of the General Assembly is hereby re-
adopted and declared to be the organic law of said city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 2, § 1)
§ 10.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CITY, MUNICIPALITY, or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Hamilton,
irrespective of its population or legal classification.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Hamilton.
   COUNTY. Hancock County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Hancock County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States or of this state or of any town or county of this state and all
bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Hamilton.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the City of
Hamilton. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include such persons in the employ
of a city as members of the Department of Police who are or shall hereafter be
appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, city, county, state, or federal governments, officers and agencies
thereof, or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized
public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED or CERTIFIED MAIL. REGISTERED MAIL includes certified mail, and
CERTIFIED MAIL includes registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The city code hereby adopted and as
hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new titles,
chapters, or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in Article VII, § 1, of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons (natural and artificial), partners,
principals, agents, employees, and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic, and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the WRITTEN SIGNATURE of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be in the proper handwriting of that person or, in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark or an electronic signature as defined
in the Electronic Commerce Security Act, 5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq., except as
otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord.”
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5
§ 10.04 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then, it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may, by law, as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and
City Council may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.06 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the city shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.07 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever, in a penalty section, reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever, in one section, reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.09 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.10 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or (in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and subsections or any part thereof by subsequent
ordinances) the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the City Council.
§ 10.11 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end, the provisions are severable.
§ 10.12 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. Such references
shall also include the designee or agent of any such officer or office unless
the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.13 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed
expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance, by its nature, either authorizes or enables the City
Council or a certain city officer or employee to make additional regulations
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.17 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the city. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
      (65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
      (2)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, as provided in the
      Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
   Statutory reference:
   Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   The amount of all fines for the violation of any ordinance of the city
shall be not less than $75 and not more than $500 for each offense.
   (B)   These provisions shall not apply to any violation of any ordinance of
the city for which the fine is currently or hereafter established at a greater
amount.
(Ord. 16 (Series 2000-2001), passed 2-20-2001)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
11.01   Official newspaper
   
11.02   City seal
Wards and Boundaries
   
11.15   Territory included; corporate limits
   
11.16   Division into wards
   
11.17   Wards established
Elections
   
11.30   Australian Ballot Law; state law to prevail
   
11.31   General election; time and place
   
11.32   Nomination; election and appointment of city officers
   
11.33   Judges and Clerks
   
11.34   Ballot boxes
   
11.35   Polling place hours
   
11.36   Counting ballots
   
11.37   Election results
   
11.38   Absent voters
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established an official newspaper in
and for the city.
   (B)   Name. The Hancock County Journal-Pilot, a secular English weekly
newspaper, published in the City of Carthage, Illinois, and distributed
throughout the county and in the city be, and the same is hereby selected to be
the official newspaper of said city.
   (C)   Official use. All notices, advertisements, reports, proceedings, and
miscellaneous matters required to be published, by law or ordinances, in the
city shall be published in said official newspaper.
(Prior Code, Chapter 7) (Ord. 17 (Series 1973-1974), passed - -)
§ 11.02 CITY SEAL.
   (A)   Description of seal. The corporate seal of the city shall be the same
as heretofore provided and now used by the city. It shall be circular in form,
two inches in diameter, with the words “City of Hamilton” on the upper edge,
“Hancock Co., Illinois” on the lower edge, and the seal in the center engraved
in Roman capitals upon the face thereof.
   (B)   Custody and use of seal. The City Clerk shall be the custodian of the
corporate seal. He or she shall affix the corporate seal to all commissions or
other official documents required to be issued by him or her and attest or
countersign the same. He or she shall affix the seal to all official acts of
the Mayor requiring it and, if necessary, attest the same. He or she shall also
certify under the corporate seal, copies of any records, ordinances, documents,
or papers in his or her office when required by any city officer or other
person. In no case shall the impression of the corporate seal be binding upon
the city, unless it be authorized by the laws or ordinances thereof and be
attested by the official signature of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, Chapter 3, Article 1)
WARDS AND BOUNDARIES
§ 11.15 TERRITORY INCLUDED; CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Territories included. The territory comprising the city is included
within the boundaries thereof described as follows, to-wit;
      (1)   Beginning in the middle, center, or thread of the main channel of
the Mississippi River at a point due west of the northwest corner of Section 28
in Township No. Five, north of the base line, Range No. Eight, west of the
Fourth Principal Meridian, in the County of Hancock and in the State of
Illinois;
      (2)   Thence east on the section line between Sections 19 and 30 and
between Sections 20 and 29 to the northwest corner of Section 28; thence south
on the west line of said section to the southwest corner of the north one-half
of the northwest quarter of said section; thence east to the center of said
northwest quarter-section;
      (3)   Thence south on the west line of the southeast quarter of said
northwest quarter-section and the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of
said Section 28 to the center of said southwest quarter-section;
      (4)   Thence west on the north line of the south one-half of the said
southwest quarter-section to the west line of Section 28;
      (5)   Thence south on the west lines of Sections 28 and 33 to the point
where the west line of said Section 33 intersects the south line of the Toledo,
Peoria & Western Railroad right-of-way; thence in a westerly direction on the
south line of said railroad right-of-way until it intersects the north line of
the south one-half of the northeast quarter of Section 32;
      (6)   Thence west on the east and west centerlines running through the
centers of the northeast and the northwest quarters of Section 32 and the
northeast quarter of Section 31 to the north and south centerline of Section
31;
      (7)   Thence south on said centerline to the northeast corner of the
southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of said Section 31;
      (8)   Thence west on the north line of said southeast quarter, quarter-
section to the northwest corner thereof;
      (9)   Thence south on the west line of said quarter quarter-section to
the southwest corner thereof, being on the south line of said Section 31 and
being also the south line of Township Five North and the southern boundary of
the city, as formerly established;
      (10)   Thence west on said township line to the middle, center, or thread
of the main channel of the Mississippi River; and
      (11)   Thence up said river along the middle, center, or thread of the
main channel thereof to the place of beginning.
(Prior Code, Chapter 1, § 1)
   (B)   Corporate limits. The boundaries of said city so described herein are
hereby named and declared to be the corporate limits of said city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 1, § 2)
§ 11.16 DIVISION INTO WARDS.
   The city shall be and is hereby divided into three wards, numbered one to
three inclusive, and each such ward shall be an election district.
(Prior Code, Chapter 5, § 1) (Ord. 14 (Series 1976-1977), passed - -; Ord. 6
(Series 2011-2012), passed 8-15-2011)
§ 11.17 WARDS ESTABLISHED.
   The boundaries of said respective wards shall be and are established as
follows, to-wit:
   (A)   Ward One. All that portion of the city east of 14th Street and north
of Broadway Street together with all that portion of the city south of Broadway
Street and east of 19th Street shall be Ward One.
   (B)   Ward Two. All that portion of the city north of Broadway Street and
west of 14th Street shall be Ward Two.
   (C)   Ward Three. All that portion of the city south of Broadway Street,
except that portion east of 19th Street shall be Ward Three.
(Prior Code, Chapter 5, § 2) (Ord. 14 (Series 1976-1977), passed - -; Ord. 6
(Series 2011-2012), passed 8-15-2011)
ELECTIONS
§ 11.30 AUSTRALIAN BALLOT LAW; STATE LAW TO PREVAIL.
   (A)   Australian Ballot Law. The provisions of an Act of the State
Legislature, entitled, “An Act to Provide for the Printing and Distribution of
Ballots at Public Expense and for the Nomination of Candidates of Public
Offices, to Regulate the Manner of Holding Elections and to Enforce the Secrecy
of the Ballot,” commonly known as the Australian Ballot Law, approved June
22nd, 1891 and in force July 1, 1891, together with all amendments thereto be
and the same are hereby adopted by the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 18)
   (B)   Preemption by state law. Whenever any of the provisions contained in
this subchapter shall be in conflict with the general election laws of this
state, said provision shall be void and the state law shall prevail, but no
such invalidity of any one section of this subchapter shall operate to
invalidate any other section or sections hereof.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 19)
§ 11.31 GENERAL ELECTION; TIME AND PLACE.
   (A)   General election. A general election for municipal officers authorized
or ordained to be elected, shall be held in the city on the third Tuesday in
April in the year 1941 and every two years thereafter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 1)
   (B)   Notice of time and place. The City Council shall designate the place
or places in which the election shall be held and appoint the Judges and Clerks
thereof and cause notice to be printed in some newspaper published in the city
or posted at each voting place in the city of the time, places of election, and
of the officers to be elected for at least 40 days prior to such election.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 2)
§ 11.32 NOMINATION; ELECTION AND APPOINTMENT OF CITY OFFICERS.
   (A)   Election and appointment of city officers. In the said year 1941 and
every four years thereafter, the following officials shall be elected Mayor,
City Clerk, City Treasurer, and one Alderperson from each ward. In the year
1943 and each four years thereafter, the following officers shall be appointed:
Chief of Police, Public Works Director, Street Operation Manager, Water
Operation Manager, and one Alderperson from each ward (elected).
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 3)
   (B)   Nomination. All candidates to be voted for at all general municipal
elections at which any city officers are to be elected shall be nominated by
petition, which shall be filed not more than 60 nor less than 35 days prior to
the date of such election.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 4)
§ 11.33 JUDGES AND CLERKS.
   (A)   Judges and Clerks. The Council shall, at least 30 days before any
general municipal election, appoint three capable and discreet electors in each
election district in the city to act as Judges and two such persons to act as
Clerks of elections therein for the period for which they are appointed.
Immediately after the appointment of such Judges and Clerks, the City Clerk
shall make out and deliver to each person so appointed notice of such
appointment under the corporate seal of the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 5)
   (B)   Vacancy of Election Judge. If any person so appointed or constituted a
Judge of Election shall not be present at the time for opening any election or
shall refuse to act or take the oath to act in such capacity, the Judge or
Judges present may appoint some other qualified elector of the district to fill
the vacancy. If there be no Judge of Election present at the time fixed for
opening the polls, such electors of the election district, as may then be
present at the place of election, may fill the places of such Judges by
election from their number, and the Judges so chosen shall have the same power
and be subject to the same penalties as other Judges of Election; provided, all
the Judges shall not, in any case, be appointed or chosen from the same
political party.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 6)
   (C)   Appointment of Clerks. The Judges of Election shall appoint Clerks
when necessary to fill vacancies, and the Judges and Clerks shall take the same
oath and have the same powers of authority as the Judges and Clerks of general
state elections. If any Judge or Clerk shall, after entering upon his or her
duties, by sickness or other disability, become unable to act, another may be
appointed in his or her place by the Judges, and in such case, the person
substituted shall take and subscribe the oath prescribed by law, and the
substitution and time thereof shall be noted on the poll lists.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 7)
§ 11.34 BALLOT BOXES.
   The Council shall provide a sufficient number of ballot boxes with secure
locks and keys, voting booths, and guard rails for the several districts of the
city. The City Clerk shall provide, at the expense of the city, the proper poll
books and other necessary election blanks and stationery for each district and
shall cause a suitable number thereof, together with the ballot boxes, voting
booths, and guard rails to be delivered to the Judges of Election on the day
before any election is to be held.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 8)
§ 11.35 POLLING PLACE HOURS.
   (A)   Hours. The polls shall be opened at the hour of 7:00 a.m. and continue
open until 5:00 p.m. of the same day, at which time they shall be closed, but
if the Judges shall not attend at the hour of 7:00 a.m. or if it shall be
necessary for the electors present to appoint Judges to conduct the election,
the polls may, in that case, be opened at any hour before the time for closing
the same shall arrive, as the case may require.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 9)
   (B)   Proclamation of opening. Upon opening the polls, one of the Judges or
Clerks shall make proclamation of the fact, and at least 30 minutes before the
closing of the same, proclamation shall be made in like manner that the polls
will be closed in half an hour.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 10)
§ 11.36 COUNTING BALLOTS.
   (A)   Counting of ballots. After the closing of the polls, the ballots shall
be counted, and the returns made out and returned, under seal, to the City
Clerk, within 24 hours after the election, and thereupon, the Council shall
meet and examine and canvass said returns and declare the result of the
election and cause a statement thereof to be entered upon the journal of their
proceedings.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 11)
   (B)   Withdrawing of petitions; counting of ballots. Any person who has
filed a petition of candidacy, as provided herein, may cause his or her name to
be withdrawn from any such nomination by his or her request in writing, signed
by him or her and duly acknowledge before an officer qualified to take
acknowledgment of deeds and presented to the City Clerk within five days after
the last day for filing nomination papers, and any name so withdrawn shall not
be printed upon the ballots under the party appellation or title from which the
candidate has withdrawn his or her name. The City Clerk shall preserve, subject
to the right of reasonable public inspection, all such nomination papers in his
or her office for a period of not less than six months.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 15)
§ 11.37 ELECTION RESULTS.
   (A)   Ties. The person having the highest number of votes for any office
shall be declared to be elected. In case of a tie in the election of any city
officer, it shall be determined by lot in the presence of the City Council, in
such manner as they shall direct, which candidate or candidates shall hold the
office.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 12)
   (B)   Notification of elected party. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk,
within five days after the result of any election is declared or appointment
made by the Council to notify, in writing, all persons nominated, elected, or
appointed to office of their nomination, election, or appointment, and if any
such person shall fail to qualify within ten days after such notice, the office
shall become vacant.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 13)
   (C)   Failure to elect. If there is a failure to elect any officer herein
required to be elected or the person elected should fail to qualify, the City
Council may forthwith order a new election therefor and, in all cases, when
necessary, may call such elections, appoint Judges and Clerks thereof, canvas
the returns thereof, and provide, by ordinance, for the mode of conducting the
same and shall give notice of such special elections in which shall be stated
the questions to be voted upon and cause such notices to be published or posted
for the same length of time and in the same manner as is required in the case
of regular elections.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 14)
   (D)   Commencement of terms after election. The term of all elected
municipal officials shall commence at the first regular or special meeting of
the corporate authorities in the month of May following such election.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 20)
(Ord. 15 (Series 1980-1981), passed - -)
§ 11.38 ABSENT VOTERS.
   (A)   Absent voters. Any qualified voter of the city who expects, in the
course of his or her business or duties, to be absent from the county in which
said city is located on the day of holding any general or special city election
may vote as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 16)
   (B)   Procedure for absentee voting. Any elector may, not more than 30 nor
less than five days prior to the date of such election, make application to the
City Clerk for an official ballot for the precinct in which he or she is
entitled to vote at such election. Application for ballot shall be made on a
blank furnished by the City Clerk and shall be in the form provided by the
statutes of the state. The balance of the procedure with reference to absentee
ballots shall be in conformity with said statutes.
(Prior Code, Chapter 6, § 17)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS, AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PROSECUTIONS AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
      
33.   PUBLIC SAFETY; EMERGENCIES
      
34.   TAXATION AND FINANCES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Chief executive; police powers
   
30.02   Security bond
   
30.03   Licenses
   
30.04   Conduct of city officers
   
30.05   Appointment and removal of officers
   
30.06   Recommendations to Council
   
30.07   Absence or disability
   
30.08   Salary
City Council
   
30.20   Membership; eligibility
   
30.21   Jurisdiction
   
30.22   Salary
   
30.23   Term of office; vacancy
   
30.24   Meetings
   
30.25   Special meetings
   
30.26   Attendance; absence of Mayor
   
30.27   Rules of proceedings
   
30.28   Order of business
   
30.29   Voting
   
30.30   Meeting records
   
30.31   Legislative procedures and powers
   
30.32   Committees
   
30.33   Offices
   
30.34   Ordinance procedures
Cross-reference:
   Election procedures, see §§
11.30 through
11.38
   Employees, officers, and organizations, see
Chapter 31
MAYOR
§ 30.01 CHIEF EXECUTIVE; POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   Chief executive. The chief executive officer of the city shall be the
Mayor, who shall be a citizen of the United States, a qualified elector, and
reside within the city limits. He or she shall hold his or her office for four
years and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. He or she shall
perform all such duties as are or may be prescribed by law or by the city
ordinances and shall take care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully
executed.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 2, § 1)
   (B)   Police powers. The Mayor may exercise, within the city limits, powers
conferred upon Sheriffs to suppress disorder and keep the peace.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 2, § 7)
§ 30.02 SECURITY BOND.
   The Mayor of the city, before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
shall execute a bond to said city in the penal sum of $3,000 with such sureties
as the City Council shall approve, conditioned for the faithful performance of
the duties of the office and the payment of all monies received by him or her
according to law and the ordinances of said city, which bond shall be filed
with the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 2, § 2)
§ 30.03 LICENSES.
   The Mayor shall sign all commissions, licenses, and permits granted by
authority of the City Council, except as otherwise provided, and such other
acts and duties as by law or ordinance may require his or her official
signature. The Mayor shall grant licenses for the purposes authorized by
ordinances to such residents of the city or other persons as he or she may deem
proper, unless the City Council shall otherwise designate and provide, and he
or she may revoke the same for cause.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 2, § 3)
§ 30.04 CONDUCT OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The Mayor shall supervise the conduct of officers of the city, inquire into
all reasonable complaints made against them, and cause all their neglects or
violations of official duties to be promptly corrected or reported to the
proper tribunal for punishment.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 2, § 4)
§ 30.05 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Power of appointment of officers. The Mayor shall appoint, by and with
the advice and consent of the City Council, all officers of said city whose
appointment is not otherwise provided for by law, and whenever a vacancy shall
occur in any office which, by law or ordinance, he or she is empowered and
required to fill, he or she shall, within 30 days after the occurrence of such
vacancy, communicate to the City Council the name of his or her appointee to
such office, and pending the concurrence of the Council in such appointment, he
or she may designate some suitable person to discharge the functions of such
office.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 2, § 5)
   (B)   Removal of officers. The Mayor shall have power to remove any officer
appointed by him or her on any formal charge whenever he or she shall be of the
opinion that the interests of the city demand such removal, but he or she shall
report the reasons for such removal to the Council at a meeting to be held not
less than five days nor more than ten days after such removal; if the Mayor
shall fail or refuse to file with the City Clerk a statement of the reasons for
such removal or if the Council, by a two-thirds vote of all its members
authorized by law to be elected, by yeas and nays to be entered upon its
record, disapprove of such removal, such officer shall thereupon become
restored to the office from which he or she was so removed, but he or she shall
give new bonds and take a new oath of office. No officer shall be removed a
second time for the same offense.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 2, § 6)
§ 30.06 RECOMMENDATIONS TO COUNCIL.
   The Mayor shall, annually and from time to time, give information relative
to the affairs of the city and shall recommend for their consideration such
measures as he or she may deem expedient.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 2, § 8)
§ 30.07 ABSENCE OR DISABILITY.
   During a temporary absence or disability of the Mayor, the City Council
shall elect one of its members to act as Mayor Pro Tem, who, during such
absence or disability, shall possess the powers of Mayor.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 2, § 9)
§ 30.08 SALARY.
   The Mayor shall receive $13,000 per year.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2020-2021), passed 10-5-2020)
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.20 MEMBERSHIP; ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   Membership. The Council shall consist of the Mayor and six
Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 1)
   (B)   Eligibility requirements. No person shall be eligible to the office of
Alderperson unless he or she shall be a qualified elector and reside within the
ward for which he or she is elected nor shall he or she be eligible if he or
she is in arrears in the payment of any tax or other liability due to the city
nor shall he or she be directly or indirectly interested in any contract to
which the city is a party nor shall he or she be eligible if he or she shall be
convicted of malfeasance, bribery, or other corrupt practices or crimes nor
shall he or she be eligible to any office, the salary of which is payable out
of the city treasury, if, at the time of his or her appointment, he or she
shall be a member of the City Council nor shall any member of the City Council,
at the same time, hold any other office under the city government nor shall he
or she be either directly or indirectly or be individually or as a member of a
firm engaged in any business transaction (other than official) with such city
through its Mayor or any of its authorized boards, agents, or attorneys whereby
any money is to be paid directly or indirectly out of the city treasury to such
members or firms.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 5)
   (C)   Judgment of qualifications. The City Council shall be the Judge of the
Election and qualification of its own members.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 6)
§ 30.21 JURISDICTION.
   The Council shall have jurisdiction in and over all places within one-half
mile of the city limits for the purpose of enforcing the health and quarantine
ordinances and regulations thereof.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 16)
§ 30.22 SALARY.
   Beginning May 1, 2023, Councilpersons shall receive the sum of $100 per
Council meeting, allowing two excused absences, in addition to the sum of $22
per committee meeting.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 2) (Ord. 6 (Series 2020-2021), passed 10-
5-2020)
§ 30.23 TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCY.
   (A)   Term of office. The Alderpersons shall be elected each for a period of
four years, one-half of the same, one from each ward, to be elected every two
years.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 3)
   (B)   Vacancy. If any vacancy shall occur in the office of Alderperson by
death, resignation, removal, or otherwise, such vacancy shall be filled by
election.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 4)
§ 30.24 MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the first and third
Monday evenings of each month; the regular meetings shall be held in the City
Hall in the room set apart for the use of the City Council and, for such
purposes, shall be known as the Council Chamber of the city, and the hour of
holding regular meetings shall be 7:00 p.m.; except, when Monday may happen to
be a legal holiday, the Council shall meet on the following day at the same
hour.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 9)
§ 30.25 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the Council may be called from
time to time by the Mayor or by any three Alderpersons upon giving notice in
writing to all of the members of the Council; provided, however, if all members
of the Council are present at said special meeting, no notice of said meeting
shall be necessary. Adjourned meetings of the Council may be held for the
purpose of completing unfinished business at any such times as may be
determined by the Council. All meetings of the Council shall be open to the
public. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council but shall not
vote except in case of a tie, when he or she shall have the deciding vote. In
the absence of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tem shall preside.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 10)
   (B)   Reconsideration at special meetings. No vote of the City Council shall
be reconsidered or rescinded at a special meeting unless, at such special
meeting, there be present as large a number of Alderpersons as were present
when such vote was taken and that any report of a committee of the Council
shall be deferred for final action thereon to the next regular meeting of the
same after the report is made upon the request of any two Alderpersons present.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 15)
§ 30.26 ATTENDANCE; ABSENCE OF MAYOR.
   (A)   Attendance. A majority of the Alderpersons elect shall constitute a
quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time and
may compel the attendance of absentees under such penalties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 8)
   (B)   Absence of Mayor. The Council may elect a temporary Alderperson in the
absence of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 12)
§ 30.27 RULES OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The Council shall determine its own rules of proceedings, punish its members
for disorderly conduct, and, with the concurrence of the Alderpersons elect,
may expel a member, but not a second time for the same offense; provided, any
Alderperson or Councilperson who shall have been convicted of bribery shall
thereby be deemed to have vacated his or her office.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 7)
§ 30.28 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The business thereof shall be taken up in the following manner:
   (A)   Roll call;
   (B)   Reading the journal;
   (C)   Reports of the several committees;
   (D)   Reports from Board of Local Improvements;
   (E)   Petitions and remonstrances;
   (F)   Unfinished business;
   (G)   New business;
   (H)   Communications and recommendations; and
   (I)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 11)
§ 30.29 VOTING.
   The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances and upon
all propositions to create a liability against the city or for the expenditure
or appropriation of its money and, in all other cases, at the request of any
member which shall be entered upon the journal of its proceedings; the
concurrence of a majority of all the members elected in the City Council shall
be necessary to the passage of any such ordinance or proposition; provided, it
shall require two-thirds of all the Alderpersons elect to sell any city school
property.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 14)
§ 30.30 MEETING RECORDS.
   The Council shall keep a journal of its own proceedings.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 13)
§ 30.31 LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURES AND POWERS.
   (A)   Mayor’s signature. All ordinances passed by the City Council shall,
before they take effect, be deposited in the office of the City Clerk; if the
Mayor approves thereof, he or she shall sign the same, and such as he or she
shall not approve, he or she shall return to the Council with his or her
objections thereof, in writing, at the next regular meeting of the Council
occurring not less than five days after the passage thereof. Such veto may
extend to any one or more items or appropriations contained in any ordinance
making an appropriation or to the entire ordinance, and in case the veto shall
extend to a part of such ordinance, the residue thereof shall take effect and
be in force. In case the Mayor shall fail to return any ordinance with his or
her objections thereto by the time aforesaid, he or she shall be deemed to have
approved such ordinance, and the same shall take effect accordingly.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 17)
   (B)   Overruling Mayor’s veto. Upon the return of any ordinance by the
Mayor, the vote by which the same was passed shall be reconsidered by the
Council; and if, after such reconsideration, two-thirds of all the members
elected to the City Council shall agree, by yeas and nays, to pass the same, it
shall go into effect, notwithstanding the Mayor may refuse to approve thereof.
The vote to pass the same over the Mayor’s veto shall be taken by yeas and nays
and entered on the journal.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 18)
   (C)   Legislative powers. The Council has and shall exercise all legislative
powers and duties conferred upon the city or its officers. It shall make all
orders for the doing of work or the making or construction of any improvements,
bridges, or buildings. It shall levy all taxes and appropriate all funds; audit
all bills, accounts, payrolls, and claims; and order payment thereof. It shall
make or authorize the making of all contracts, and no contract shall bind or be
obligatory upon the city unless reduced to writing and approved by the Council
or expressly authorized by ordinance or resolution adopted by the Council. All
officers, assistant superintendents, and employees having discretionary or
supervisory powers are only agents of the Council, and all of their acts shall
be subject to review and to approval or rejection by the Council. Every
officer, assistant superintendent, or employee having discretionary or
supervisory powers shall report from time to time, as required by law or
ordinance or whenever requested by the Council or by the committee in charge of
the department to which such report relates or when the committee shall deem it
necessary for the good of the public service, to the Council, in writing,
regarding the business of its division or office or the matters connected
therewith.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 19)
§ 30.32 COMMITTEES.
   All committees of the Council and all special committees shall be appointed
at the beginning of the fiscal year or as soon thereafter as may be. Each
standing committee shall be composed of three members of the Council, one from
each ward, or as nearly so as the Mayor may deem practicable and calculated to
promote the business interests of the city. Two members of any committee shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Each standing committee of
the Council shall make reports in writing, with reference to the condition of
the affairs with which it is concerned at any time when required to do so by
the Council.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 20)
§ 30.33 OFFICES.
   The Council shall have the power, by ordinance from time to time, to create,
fill, and discontinue offices and employment other than herein prescribed
according to its judgment of the needs of said city, and may, by majority vote
of all of the members, remove any such officer or employee appointed by it
except as otherwise provided by law, and may, by resolution or otherwise,
prescribe, limit, or change the compensation of all appointive officers or
employees.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 3, § 21)
§ 30.34 ORDINANCE PROCEDURES.
   The style of the ordinances shall be:
   (A)   Publication requirements. All ordinances of said city imposing any
fine, penalty, imprisonment, or forfeiture or making any appropriation shall,
within 30 days after the passage thereof, be published at least once in a
newspaper therein, and no such ordinance shall take effect until ten days after
the passage thereof; provided, nothing in this section contained shall be
deemed to apply to any ordinance included in any revision or codification of
ordinances which may be collectively published in book or pamphlet form by
authority of said Council. And all other ordinances, orders, and resolutions
shall take effect from and after their passage unless otherwise provided
therein.
   (B)   Recording of ordinances and resolutions. All ordinances or written
resolutions passed by the Council of said city shall be deposited in the office
of the City Clerk and shall be duly recorded by the Clerk in a record book of
ordinances and appropriately indexed by their titles or subjects. It shall be
his or her duty to see that the proper ordinances are correctly printed and
published. Said Clerk shall make, at the foot of the record of each ordinance
recorded as aforesaid, the memorandum of the date of its passage and of the
publication of such ordinance (when required to be published), which recording
of memorandum or certified copy thereof shall be prima facie evidence of the
passage and publication of ordinances for all purposes whatsoever.
   (C)   Reading of ordinances. All ordinances proposed for adoption shall,
before submission to a vote of the Council, be read in full by the City Clerk
or someone on his or her behalf; thereafter, if amendments, modifications, or
changes to said ordinance be proposed, such proposed amendments, modifications,
or changes shall be severally submitted to a vote by the Council, and such of
them as may be accepted shall be considered a part of the ordinance as
originally proposed; thereafter, upon motion, the ordinance, as modified,
amended, or changed, shall be submitted to the Council for adoption, and the
Clerk shall record the yeas and nays upon the motion, and if the requisite yea
votes are received, the ordinance shall be deemed adopted, subject to approval
by the Mayor.
   (D)   Three readings of ordinances. The preferred method of passing
ordinances of the city is hereby declared to be by three readings: each
ordinance to be read in full for first reading at the first meeting it is
presented to the Council; to be read in full for the second reading; and by
title only for third reading and passage at the next Council meeting after its
first reading. It is preferred that this requirement be waived by the Council
only by motion in the minutes. The requirements of three readings are informal
only and not mandatory nor required for any particular ordinance. Failure to
comply with the three-reading requirement shall in no way affect the validity
or enforceability of any ordinance.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 4) (Ord. 13 (Series 1947-1948), passed - -;
Ord. 14 (Series 1978-1979), passed - -)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Appointment, employment, and removal of officers and employees
   
31.02   Compensation of specific employees
   
31.03   Travel, meal, and lodging expenses
   
31.04   Employee vacations
   
31.05   Duties of city officials
   
31.06   Residence
Policies
   
31.20   Equal Employment Opportunity
   
31.21   Sexual harassment
   
31.22   Ethics
   
31.23   Nepotism
   
31.24   Social Security for city employees
   
31.25   Overtime and comp-time policy
Officers
   
31.40   City Clerk
   
31.41   City Treasurer
   
31.42   City Attorney
   
31.43   Chief of Police
   
31.44   Public Works Director
   
31.45   Sewers and Water Works; Public Works Director
Organizations
   
31.60   Health and Safety Committee
   
31.61   Band Commission
 
   
31.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT, EMPLOYMENT, AND REMOVAL OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMMITTEE. The committee of the City Council which supervises the affairs
of the particular city department within which the employee is employed.
      DISCHARGE. The termination of an employee’s employment for cause.
      DISCHARGING/DISCIPLINING OFFICER. The officer who discharges or
disciplines an employee, such as the Mayor or department superintendent.
      EMPLOYEES. All employees of the city, department heads, and the Chief of
Police.
      EVALUATION. Beginning in April, 1994, each employee shall be evaluated
annually by each department head, and each department head shall be evaluated
by his or her Council committee and the Mayor. The committees shall promulgate
standards and forms for such purposes, approved by the Council.
      REQUEST. Any application of an employee for a review of a discharge/
discipline to the committee or Council. All REQUESTS shall be in writing and
state the reasons for relief.
   (B)   Appointment of employees. The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the
advice and consent of the City Council, all employees of the city. Whenever a
vacancy shall occur, he or she shall, within 90 days after the occurrence of
such vacancy, communicate to the City Council the name of his or her appointee
to such employment. Department heads and the Chief of Police shall be appointed
annually.
   (C)   Permanent employee position. Subsequent to appointment, all employees
shall serve as city employees until:
      (1)   Their resignation or retirement as such employees;
      (2)   The elimination of their position or any reduction in work force by
the City Council;
      (3)   Their discharge from employment, pursuant to division (D) below, or
any discipline or temporary suspension;
      (4)   Failure to pass any evaluation; and
      (5)   As to department heads and the Chief of Police, until their failure
to be reappointed at the beginning of each fiscal year.
   (D)   Discharge of employee from office. The Mayor shall have the right to
discharge and remove any department head, superintendent, or employee for
cause. The Chief of Police and superintendent of any department may discharge
or remove any employee in their department for cause.
   (E)   Employee rights. Whenever any employee or department head is
discharged from employment, they shall have the following rights.
      (1)   Within three days from the discharge, the person exercising the
power of discharge shall deliver to the City Clerk and the removed employee a
written statement of the reasons for discharge.
      (2)   Within three days from receiving written notice of discharge, the
employee may request a hearing before the committee by delivering a request for
relief to the City Clerk. The committee Chairperson shall schedule the hearing
and notify the committee and the employee of the date, time, and place. At the
hearing, the employee will have the right to be represented by counsel and
present sworn evidence and testimony in his or her defense.
      (3)   The committee and the discharging officer may present any sworn
evidence and testimony to sustain the discharge.
      (4)   Upon conclusion of the testimony, the committee shall make a
decision whether or not to approve the discharge or to take other action.
      (5)   The hearing of the committee may be conducted in executive session.
If so, the committee shall hear the testimony in executive session with only
the discharging officer, the Committee members, and the employee and his or her
counsel together with a City Attorney present. The hearing shall be conducted
by the committee Chairperson who shall, with the advice of the City Attorney
or, if necessary, a legal advisor appointed by the City Council, rule on
procedural and evidentiary matters. Upon the conclusion of the testimony, the
Committee shall deliberate in executive session with only the City Attorney
present. The committee shall not vote on the matter in executive session, but
may do so only in open session of the committee after the conclusion of the
testimony and deliberations.
      (6)   In the event the action dismissing the employee is not approved by
the committee, the employee shall be returned to full employment status without
loss in pay or such other status as the committee may order.
      (7)   If the committee approves the discharge, the employee shall have
three days to request the City Council to review the action of the committee.
      (8)   Upon review, the City Council shall review the transcripts of the
hearing and examine any witnesses the Council or Mayor determines are necessary
for clarification only and deliberate in executive session.
      (9)   The City Council may approve the committee’s action or grant the
employee’s request or take other appropriate action. In the event the employee
is reinstated by the Council, the employee shall be returned to full employment
status without loss in pay.
      (10)   Upon dismissal and until final resolution, the employee’s pay
shall be suspended.
   (F)   Other dismissal. There shall be no other discharge of covered
employees except as provided herein or as is otherwise provided by state
statute. No employee falling within the coverage of this section shall be
dismissed except according to the terms hereof or as otherwise provided by
statute.
   (G)   Persons covered. This section does not apply to any elected official
of the city. This section does apply to the Public Works Director, the Building
Inspector, the Animal Warden, the employees of the Water and Sewer Department,
and the employees of the Street Department as well as the Water and Sewer
Bookkeeper, the Water and Sewer Collector, the Chief of Police, and employees
of the Police Department.
   (H)   Discharge for cause. Pursuant to the terms of this section, whenever
discharge of any covered employee is initiated, the meaning of DISCHARGE FOR
CAUSE includes:
      (1)   Conviction of a violation of any state or federal statute or
regulation;
      (2)   Conviction of a violation of any ordinance of the city or the
county;
      (3)   Failure to follow any lawful instruction, directive, or command of
any superintendent or supervisor, the Mayor, or the Chairperson of the
committee;
      (4)   Consuming alcohol or using illegal drugs or being under the
influence of same during working hours;
      (5)   Intentionally or negligently damaging city property or equipment or
property of others while on duty;
      (6)   Engaging in conduct unbecoming to the city or the employee or
bringing embarrassment, humiliation, or disrepute to the city;
      (7)   Physical or mental disability or impairment causing inability to
perform job functions; and
      (8)   Other improper or outrageous conduct while on duty.
   (I)   Application. From and after the passage and approval of this section,
all covered employees, except department heads and the Chief of Police, shall
henceforth not be subject to annual reappointment. Employees in service at the
effective date of this section shall remain so until their employment otherwise
terminates as provided herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 10A) (Ord. 9 (Series 1993-1994), passed 4-4-
1994) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION OF SPECIFIC EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Police force. The fees of the Chief of Police and members of the
police force, for serving or executing process under any law or ordinance of
said city, shall be the same as are allowed by the statutes of the state, and
it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and several members of the police
force to attend to the collection of all fees due them for serving or executing
process, where collectable, and the same shall be paid into the city treasury
in like time and manner as fines and penalties are required to be paid by
ordinance.
   (B)   Election officials. Judges and Clerks of Election in the city, shall
each be entitled to receive the sum of $5 for each day they may be actually
engaged in registering votes and in holding and conducting any election.
   (C)   Witnesses and jurors. The compensation of witnesses and jurors
attending or serving before any Police Magistrate or Justice of the Peace, in
any suit or action for the recovery of any fine or penalty under the ordinances
of said city, shall be governed by the state statutes in relation to like
proceedings before Justices of the Peace.
   (D)   Pay period for appointed employees. Employees of the city, county, or
state who are employed for terms of one year by appointment of the Mayor of
said city and who are compensated at a monthly rate, the one-half part whereof
is payable twice each month, shall be paid the one-half part of their monthly
salary on the fifteenth day of the month for services rendered during the first
half of the month and the one-half part of their salary on the first day of the
month for their services rendered in the last half of the preceding month. The
City Clerk and the City Treasurer are hereby authorized and directed to prepare
the necessary vouchers and supporting records and to issue the checks of the
city in payment of such compensation on the fifteenth and first days of each
calendar month as hereinabove directed.
(Prior Code, Chapter 3, Article 4) (Res. 1 (Series 1967-1968, passed - -)
§ 31.03 TRAVEL, MEAL, AND LODGING EXPENSES.
   (A)   Adoption. The Local Government Travel Expense Control Act (referred to
in this section as “Act”), being 50 ILCS 150/1 et seq. and those non-home rule
units of local government passed pursuant to such Act shall be and are hereby
incorporated as findings of fact as if said recitals were fully set forth
herein.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      PUBLIC BUSINESS. Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which is required or useful for the benefit of the city to carry out the
responsibilities of city business.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the city or by wards or charges of the city involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
   (C)   Permitted reimbursement. The city shall only reimburse the following
types of travel, meal, and lodging expenses incurred by its employees and
officers up to the following maximum allowable amounts:
      (1)   Meals: $45 per day;
      (2)   Lodging: $160 per day;
      (3)   Travel: $0.55 per mile; and
      (4)   Alcohol is specifically excluded from reimbursement.
   (D)   Request form required. No reimbursement of travel, meal, or lodging
expenses incurred by a city employee or officer shall be authorized unless the
“Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expense Reimbursement Request Form,” attached to the
ordinance adopted herein and made a part hereof, has been submitted and
approved. All documents and information submitted with the form shall be
subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 ILCS 140/1 et
seq.).
   (E)   Expenses. Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging of any officer or
employee that exceeds the maximum reimbursement allowed under the regulations
adopted under division (C) above or any member of the corporate authorities of
the city may only be approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of the
corporate authorities of the city. However, in the event of an emergency or
other extraordinary circumstances, the corporate authorities may approve more
than the maximum allowable expenses set forth above.
   (F)   Entertainment activities non-reimbursable. The city shall not
reimburse any elected official, employee, or officer for any activities which
would be considered entertainment. Activities which would otherwise be
considered entertainment but which are excluded from the prohibition on
reimbursement due to being ancillary to the purpose of the program or event may
be reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2 (Series 2018-2019), passed 5-7-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 31.04 EMPLOYEE VACATIONS.
   (A)   Employed one year. Any employee of the city who shall have been
continuously so employed for a period of one year shall be entitled to one
week’s vacation, which vacation shall be taken during the succeeding year at
such time as the employee, with the concurrence of a majority of the City
Council, shall elect.
   (B)   Employed two or more years. Any employee of the city who shall have
been continuously so employed for two or more years shall be entitled to two
weeks’ vacation each year, such vacation to be taken in the year succeeding the
anniversary date of employment at such time as the employee, with a concurrence
of the majority of the City Council, shall elect.
   (C)   No accumulation. Vacation time shall not be accumulated from year to
year.
   (D)   Wages during vacation. The then-current wage or salary of the employee
shall continue without abatement during a vacation period, but the employee may
not elect to accept such wage or salary or an equivalent thereof in money in
lieu of such vacation, unless the employment shall have terminated prior to
taking of the vacation.
(Prior Code, Chapter 3, Article 3) (Res. 1 (Series 1955-1956), passed - -)
§ 31.05 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Time commitment. The Mayor and each of the standing committees of the
Council shall devote such time to the duties of their respective offices as the
faithful discharge thereof may require.
   (B)   Eligibility requirement. No person shall be eligible to any office
under the city government who is not a qualified elector of the city and who
shall not have resided therein at least one year next preceding his or her
election or appointment nor shall any person be eligible to any office who is a
defaulter to the corporation.
   (C)   Security bond. The Council may require any officer of said city who is
required by law to give an official bond, to furnish additional security, or
execute a new bond whenever the security of the original bond has become
insufficient by the insolvency, death, or removal of the sureties or any of
them or when, for any cause, such bond shall be deemed insufficient. Any
officer who shall fail to furnish additional security or give a new bond, when
so required by the Council, within ten days after he or she is notified in
writing of such requirement shall be deemed to have vacated his or her office.
   (D)   Oath of office. All officers of said city, whether elected or
appointed, shall, before entering upon the duties of their respective offices,
take and subscribe the oath or affirmation required by law therefor and execute
and file such bond as is required by ordinance.
   (E)   Conflict of interest. No Mayor, Alderperson, officer, or assistant
elected or appointed shall be interested directly or indirectly in any contract
or job for work or materials or profits thereof or service to be furnished or
performed for the city nor interested directly or indirectly in any contract or
job for work or materials or profits thereof or services to be performed for
the city.
   (F)   Liability for damages. All officers shall be liable to the city for
all loss or damage that may result thereto from their negligence or willful
misconduct in the discharge of any official duty, and the Council may, in its
discretion by order, withhold the salary of any such officer in order to secure
the corporation from loss.
   (G)   Residency. If the Mayor or other city officer shall, during his or her
official term, move beyond the limits of the city, his or her office shall
thereby become vacant.
   (H)   State law. All officers, assistants, and employees shall, at all
times, be further subject to all the duties and requirements and penalties
provided by the laws of the state relating to municipal government.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 1)
§ 31.06 RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Except as provided herein, all full-time employees and full-time
appointed officers of the city are required to reside within the state and
within five miles of the city limits of the city at the time of their initial
employment or appointment and are further required to maintain such physical
resident status, physically residing within five miles of the city limits, at
all times during the tenure of their employment or office with the city.
   (B)   Except as provided herein, division (A) above shall apply to all full-
time employees and full-time appointed officers of the city in all departments
including full-time department heads.
   (C)   If, at any time, any full-time employee or full-time appointed officer
moves his or her place of residence in violation of this requirement, then such
employee’s or officer’s position or office shall become vacant.
   (D)   This section shall not require the termination or create a vacancy in
office or position of any full-time employee or officer who is currently, at
the date of the adoption of this section, not in compliance, so long as such
employee or officer continues to reside at the location where such employee or
officer physically resided at the time of the adoption of this ordinance. In
the event any such full-time employee or appointed officer not in compliance
with the requirements of this section changes the location of his or her
residence or the place where he or she physically resides, then the position or
office of such employee or appointed officer shall become vacant.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2014-2015), passed 4-20-2015)
POLICIES
§ 31.20 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONTRACT. Any contract, purchase order, lease, or other agreement or
understanding, written or otherwise, between the state, any of its political
subdivisions or municipal corporations, or any agent thereof and any other
person for the procurement of any thing or service of value (such as, for
example, any real or personal property, equipment, merchandise, goods,
materials, labor, or services) for or by the state, such political subdivision,
or municipal corporation; CONTRACT further means any loan or grant by the
state, any of its political subdivisions, or municipal corporations from which
such a contract, purchase order, lease, or other agreement or understanding may
be financed in whole or in part.
      SUBCONTRACT. Any agreement, arrangement, or understanding, written or
otherwise, between a contractor and any person (in which the parties do not
stand in the relationship of an employer and an employee):
         (a)   For the furnishing of supplies or services or for the use of
real or personal property, including lease arrangements, which, in whole or in
part, is utilized in the performance of any one or more contracts; or
         (b)   Under which any portion of the contractor’s obligation under any
one or more contracts is performed, undertaken, or assumed.
   (B)   Clause in all contracts. Hereafter, all contracts and subcontracts, as
defined herein, shall contain the following clause: “During the performance of
this contract, the contractor agrees as follows” and proclaims that:
      (1)   It will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for
employment because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or ancestry
and, further, that it will examine all job classifications to determine if
minority persons or women are underutilized and will take appropriate
affirmative action to rectify any such underutilization;
      (2)   If it hires additional employees in order to perform such contract
or any portion hereof, it will determine the availability (in accordance with
the Commission’s Rules and Regulations for Public Contracts) of minorities and
women in the area(s) from which it may reasonably recruit, and it will hire for
each job classification for which employees are hired in such a way that
minorities and women are not underutilized;
      (3)   In all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed by it
or on its behalf, it will state that all applicants will be afforded equal
opportunity without discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, or ancestry;
      (4)   It will send to each labor organization or representative of
workers with which it has or is bound by a collective bargaining or other
agreement or understanding a notice advising such labor organization or
representative of the contractor’s obligations under the Illinois Equal Pay
Act, being 820 ILCS 112/1 et seq. and the Commission’s Rules and Regulations
for Public Contracts. If any such labor organization or representative fails or
refuses to cooperate with the contractor in its efforts to comply with such Act
and rules and regulations, the contractor will promptly so notify the State
Fair Employment Practices Commission, and the contracting agency and will
recruit employees from other sources when necessary to fulfill its obligations
thereunder;
      (5)   It will submit reports as required by the State Fair Employment
Practices Commission’s Rules and Regulations for Public Contracts, furnish all
relevant information as may from time to time be requested by the Commission or
the contracting agency and in all respects comply with the State Fair
Employment Practices Act and the Commission’s Rules and Regulations for Public
Contracts;
      (6)   It will permit access to all relevant books, records, accounts, and
work sites by personnel of the contracting agency and the State Fair Employment
Practices Commission for purposes of investigation to ascertain compliance with
the Illinois Equal Pay Act, being 820 ILCS 112/1 et seq. and the Commission’s
Rules and Regulations for Public Contracts; and
      (7)   It will include, verbatim or by reference, the provisions of
division (B)(1) through (B)(6) above in every performance subcontract, as
defined in § 2.10(b) of the Commission’s Rules and Regulations for Public
Contracts, so that such provisions will be binding upon every such
subcontractor and that it will also so include the provisions of divisions (B)
(1), (B)(5), (B)(6), and this (B)(7) in every supply subcontract, as defined in
§ 2.10(a) of the Commission’s Rules and Regulations for Public Contracts, so
that such provisions will be binding upon every such subcontractor. In the same
manner as with other provisions of this contract, the contractor will be liable
for compliance with applicable provisions of this clause by all its
subcontractors, and further, it will promptly notify the contracting agency and
the State Fair Employment Practices Commission in the event any subcontractor
fails or refuses to comply therewith. In addition, no contractor will utilize
any subcontractor declared by the Commission to be non-responsible and
therefore ineligible for contracts or subcontracts with the state or any of its
political subdivisions or municipal corporations.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 11) (Ord. 17 (Series 1972-1973), passed - -
) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.21 SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   The city’s sexual harassment policy, as laid out in Ord. 7 (Series 2018-
2019), is hereby adopted and incorporated as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2018-2019), passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.22 ETHICS.
   (A)   The regulations of 5 ILCS 430/5-15 and 5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40
of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.),
hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this section, are hereby adopted by
reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the city to the
extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act by any officer or any employee of the city is hereby
prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the city under the Act is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act by
any officer or employee of the city is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms OFFICER and EMPLOYEE shall be
defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   (G)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering, and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the city.
(Ord. 2 (Series 2004-2005), passed 5-3-2004) Penalty, see §
31.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq., 5 ILCS 430/5-15, 5 ILCS 430/
10-10 through 10-40, 5 ILCS 430/70-5, 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a), and 5 ILCS 430/70-5
(c)
§ 31.23 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   No person shall be employed by the city when a member of their
immediate family is already employed by the city or serving as an officer of
the city.
   (B)   For the purposes of this policy, IMMEDIATE FAMILY includes an
employee’s spouse, children, parents, brothers, sisters, and grandparents or
are brothers-in-law or sisters-in-law by marriage.
   (C)   If two employees already employed by the city marry or cohabit during
the period of their employment, such employment shall not be prohibited by this
policy.
   (D)   In the event any officer of the city is elected at any election and a
member of his or her immediate family is an officer or employee of the city at
the time of such election, such employment shall not be a violation of this
section.
   (E)   The prohibition of employment of immediate family members shall not
apply to fire volunteers, even though they may be paid for their service.
   (F)   This section shall not be enforced in any circumstance or manner so as
to violate any state or federal statute, the state or federal constitution, or
any applicable authority. To the extent that any prospective employee brings
such alleged violation to the attention of the City Council and the City
Council finds that enforcement of this section in that particular circumstance
violates any state or federal statute, the state or federal constitution, or
any applicable authority, it shall not be enforced in that particular case
where such violation is determined to exist by the City Council, otherwise to
be fully applicable.
(Ord. 14 (Series 2012-2013), passed 4-15-2013) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.24 SOCIAL SECURITY FOR CITY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   City policy. It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the
city to extend to the eligible employees thereof (except all elected
legislative and judicial officials and those paid compensation by the city on a
fee basis) effective as of January 1, 1951, the benefits of the Federal Old-Age
and Survivors Insurance System as authorized by the Federal and Social Security
Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq. and amendments thereto. In pursuance of
said policy and for that purpose, the Mayor of the city shall take such action
as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
   (B)   Agreement with the state employees’ retirement system. The Mayor of
the city is hereby authorized and directed to secure an agreement with the
State Employees’ Retirement System (Social Security Unit) to secure coverage of
eligible employees as provided in division (A) above.
   (C)   Withholding. Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the
purpose provided in division (A) above are hereby authorized to be made in the
amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal
laws or regulations and shall be paid over to the state agency in such amounts
and at such times as are designated by state laws or regulations.
   (D)   Remittance to state agency. Employer contributions and administrative
expense shall be paid to the state agency in accordance with applicable state
laws and regulations from amounts appropriated for such purposes.
   (E)   Records. The Clerk shall maintain such records and submit such reports
as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, Chapter 3, Article 5) (Res. 3 (Series 1953-1954), passed - -)
§ 31.25 OVERTIME AND COMP-TIME POLICY.
   The overtime/comp-time policy of the city is to pay overtime and not have or
allow any system of compensatory time for all employees.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2012-2013), passed 7-2-2012)
OFFICERS
§ 31.40 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Security bond. The City Clerk, before entering upon the duties of his
or her office, shall execute to the city a bond in the penal sum of $4,000 with
such sureties as the Council may approve, conditioned as provided by law.
   (B)   Statutory duties. The duties of the City Clerk shall be those
prescribed by the state statutes and such others as shall be imposed upon him
or her by the ordinances of said city.
   (C)   Records. The City Clerk shall, under the direction of the Chairperson
of the Committee on Finances and Auditing, open and keep in a neat and
methodical manner a complete set of books in which, among other things, shall
be set forth the appropriations of the fiscal year for every distinct object
and expenditure and also the receipt from every source of revenue so far as he
or she can ascertain the same. Said books and all contracts, bonds, deeds,
warrants, vouchers, and other papers kept in said office shall be subject to
the examination of all members of the Council and all city officers.
   (D)   Warrants of Treasurer. He or she shall keep, in a suitable book, an
accurate list of all warrants drawn upon the City Treasurer showing the date of
and amount of each and the name of the person in whose favor drawn. All
warrants drawn upon the Treasurer shall be signed by the Mayor and
countersigned by the Clerk and shall specify therein the particular fund or
appropriation to which the same is chargeable and the person to whom payable,
and no money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so drawn.
   (E)   Funds and appropriations. Whenever any appropriation or fund is
exhausted, the Clerk shall, without delay, notify the Council thereof, and he
or she shall not thereafter draw any warrant against such fund or appropriation
until the same shall be renewed. It shall be the duty of said Clerk to transfer
and place to the credit of the General Fund all unexpended balances or
appropriations remaining at the close of the fiscal year.
   (F)   Public improvements. Said Clerk shall keep in his or her office a
correct list of all public improvements ordered by the Council and let under a
contract by the city, and all contracts and specifications therefor made by the
authority of the Council or by any officer of the corporation pursuant thereto,
in relation to such improvements, shall be filed in the Clerk’s office.
   (G)   Licenses. All licenses, when issued, shall be entered by the Clerk,
without fee, in a book to be kept by him or her for that purpose, the name of
each person licensed, for what purpose licensed, and the date and number of the
license, the amount paid for the same, and the time of the expiration thereof.
   (H)   Monthly statement. The Clerk shall, on or before the first Monday in
each and every month, make out and submit to the Council a statement or report,
in writing, of all monies received and warrants drawn by him or her during the
preceding month, showing therein from what source and on what account said
monies were received and for what purpose and on what account said warrants
were drawn or ordered.
   (I)   Annual report. Said Clerk shall, within 20 days after the beginning of
the fiscal year in each year, make out an annual report giving a detailed
statement of all the receipts and revenues of said city during the preceding
fiscal year. Said report shall also detail the resources and liabilities of the
city, the condition of all appropriations and contracts unfulfilled, the
balance of money then remaining in the treasury with all sums due and
outstanding, and all other matters necessary to exhibit the true financial
condition of the city, which report, when examined and approved by the
Chairperson of the Committee on Finances and Auditing, shall be filed.
   (J)   Office hours. The hours of the City Office of the City Clerk shall be
from 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. local time, Monday through Friday.
   (K)   Expense estimate. In addition to his or her other duties, the said
Clerk shall, on request of the City Council, on or before May 15 in each year
and before the annual appropriations are made by the Council, submit to said
Council a statement of his or her estimates as nearly as may be of money
necessary to defray the expenses of the corporation during the current fiscal
year. He or she shall, in said report, classify the different objects and
branches of expenditure, giving the amount required for each as nearly as may
be, and for the purpose of making such report, he or she is authorized to
require of all city officers statements of the condition and expenses of their
respective offices or departments with any proposed improvements and the
probable expense thereof, and he or she shall give therein such other
information to the Council or its members as may be necessary to the end that
said Council may fully understand the money exigencies and demands upon the
city for the current year. In addition to his or her other duties, he or she
shall keep a record in a separate journal, showing certified copies of all
ordinances passed by the Council.
   (L)   Collection. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to collect all sums
of money now due and owing to said city or which shall become due and owing to
said city on sales of lots in the city cemetery (known as the Greenwood
Cemetery), on water rents, for the construction of sidewalks and all special
assessments, rents from city property, back taxes, licenses, or any other money
which shall become due in any other manner except by judgment of court, and he
or she shall, immediately upon collection of any city revenue, pay the same
over to the City Treasurer.
   (M)   Keeping seal, records. Said Clerk shall be the keeper of the corporate
seal of said city; he or she shall prepare all commissions, licenses, permits,
and other official documents required to be issued by him or her under the laws
and the ordinances of the city; and he or she shall, when necessary, attest all
instruments with the corporate seal of said city. He or she shall carefully
preserve in his office all books, records, papers, deeds, maps, and effects of
every description belonging to the city and appertaining to said office, and
upon expiration in any way of his or her official term, he or she shall, on
demand, deliver all such books, records, papers, and effects to his or her
successor in office and shall perform such other duties appertaining to his or
her office as may be required by the ordinances of said city or by the state
law.
   (N)   Salary. Beginning May 1, 2021, the salary of the City Clerk shall be
$1,200 per year.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 5) ( Ord. 21 (Series 1990-1991), passed 5-20-
1991; Ord. 6 (Series 1996-1997), passed 9-3-1996; Ord. 6 (Series 2020-2021),
passed 10-5-2020)
§ 31.41 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Security bond. The City Treasurer, before entering upon the duties of
his or her office, shall execute a bond to the city in the sum of $15,000 with
surety to be approved by the Council, condition as required by law.
   (B)   Receiving money. He or she shall receive all monies belonging to the
city and shall render at the end of each month and more often, if required, a
statement under oath to the Committee on Finances and Auditing showing the
state of the treasury at the date of such account and the balance of the money
in the treasury. Such statement shall set forth all the monies received by him
or her and from whom and on what account they shall have been received and,
also, all money paid out by him or her and on what account it shall have been
paid.
   (C)   Books of account. Said Treasurer shall cause to be kept books of
account in such manner as to show, with entire accuracy, all monies received by
him or her and from whom and on what account it shall have been received and
all monies paid out by him or her and on what account it shall have been paid
and in such manner that such books may be readily understood and investigated.
Such books and all papers and files in his or her office shall be, at all
times, open to the examination of the Mayor or any member of the Council.
   (D)   Bank deposits. The City Treasurer shall deposit the funds of the city
in such bank or banks as may be designated according to law and shall make to
the Committee on Finances and Auditing, annual report under oath of all
interest on monies received or credited to the City Treasurer or to the city by
any such bank in which is deposited any monies of the city including special
assessments.
   (E)   Other duties. He or she shall perform such other duties usually
incident to the office of City Treasurer as may from time to time be required
by the Mayor or any member of the Council and such other duties as may be
required to be performed by any other city ordinance or by law.
   (F)   Term of office. The City Treasurer shall hold office for a term of
four years and until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
   (G)   Salary. Beginning May 1, 2023, the salary of the City Treasurer shall
be $7,000.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 6) (Ord. 16 (Series 1974-1975), passed - -;
Ord. 7 (Series 1992-1993), passed 9-21-1992; Ord. 6 (Series 2020-2021), passed
10-5-2020)
§ 31.42 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Term of office. There is hereby created the office of City Attorney,
who shall hold his or her office for one year or until his or her successor
shall be elected and qualified.
   (B)   Election. He or she shall be elected at the first regular meeting of
the Council in May of each year or as soon thereafter as may be practicable.
   (C)   Security bond. The City Attorney, before entering upon the duties of
his or her office, shall execute a bond to the city in the sum of $1,000 with
such sureties as the Council shall approve and conditioned as provided by law.
   (D)   Assigned duties. He or she shall draft such ordinances as may be
required by him or her by the Council or by any member thereof. He or she shall
draw any deeds, leases, contracts, or other papers required by the business of
the city when requested to do so by the Mayor or any member of the Council. He
or she shall, when requested to do so, furnish written opinions upon subjects
submitted to him or her by the Mayor, the Council, or by any member thereof and
shall conduct all the legal business of the city. He or she shall be charged
with the prosecution of all action for violations of the ordinances of the city
and with the conduct of all cases in courts of justice. He or she shall
institute action in every case where there has been a violation of any city
ordinance when instructed to do so by the Council or any committee thereof or
upon the complaint of any person when, in his or her judgment, the public
interest requires the same shall be prosecuted. He or she shall perform such
other duties usually incidental to the office of City Attorney as may be
required by the Mayor or any member of the City Council. Whenever, in the
opinion of the Mayor, the interests of the city may require it, assistant
counsel may be employed at the expense of the city.
   (E)   Duties not assigned. This section shall not be intended, however, to
require the City Attorney to do the legal work in connection with the Board of
Local Improvements or the legal work in connection with any improvement to be
paid for by special assessment.
   (F)   Salary. The City Attorney shall receive a salary of $210 per month,
payable monthly.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 7)
§ 31.43 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created a city department to be
referred to as the Police Department.
   (B)   Appointment of police officers and term of office. Police officers of
the city shall hold office by appointment of the Mayor and with the approval of
the City Council, and the term of office for each police officer shall be for
one year or until a successor is appointed and qualified.
   (C)   Police officers in charge. Each police officer shall be designated by
a badge number, and the Chief of Police shall be in general charge of the
Police Department and responsible for the supervision of all other police
officers. The Chief of Police shall also attend all regular and special
meetings of the City Council.
   (D)   Eligibility requirements. No person shall be eligible for the office
of police officer unless he or she shall, at the time of his or her
appointment, be at least 21 years of age, be an actual resident of the city,
and be of good moral character and have a telephone in his or her home or
residence. Part-time police officers are not subject to the residency
requirement.
   (E)   Residency requirement and vacancy. Any person who is appointed a
police officer must continue to actually reside in the city, and if any
appointee shall ever reside outside said city or fail to meet any other
qualification in this section, then the office shall be, by the City Council,
declared vacant, and the vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor
with the approval of the City Council.
   (F)   Salary. The salary of the Chief of Police shall be fixed for each term
by the City Council by a resolution at the time the office is filled by
appointment.
   (G)   Powers and duties. Police officers shall have all the powers and
duties now specified by law or ordinance and such other duties and powers as
specified by regulations hereinafter referred to, promulgated by the Health and
Safety Committee, and approved by the City Council from time to time.
   (H)   Removal from office. Police officers shall, at all times, be subject
to control by the City Council and may be removed from office by the City
Council for failure or refusal to comply with any lawful direction of said
Council or the Health and Safety Committee of said Council or for a failure or
refusal to discharge any duties.
   (I)   Vacancy. A vacancy in the office of Chief of Police shall exist by
reason of death, resignation, removal from the said city, inability to
discharge the duties of the office by reason of ill health or other cause, and
by removal from office by action of the City Council; when any such vacancy
shall exist, the said office shall be filled in the same manner as provided in
division (C) above.
   (J)   Surety bond. The Chief of Police shall, before entering upon the
duties of his or her office, take and subscribe the oath required of other
officers and file the same with the City Clerk and shall also execute a bond to
the city in the penal sum of $1,000 with surety to be approved by the Council,
and the conditions of said bond to be the same as in the case of other city
officers.
   (K)   Enforcement of ordinances. The Chief of Police shall be charged with
the enforcement of all the ordinances of the said city. He or she shall report
to the Health and Safety Committee or the Council any violation of any
ordinance and shall bring proper action in courts of justice against any and
all violators of such ordinances. The Chief of Police shall be ex-officio
Prison Keeper of said city, and all police officers shall be under his or her
control and command, except that he or she and other police officers shall, at
all times, be subject to the direction of the Health and Safety Committee.
   (L)   Council meetings and other duties. The Chief of Police shall attend or
ask one of the other police officers to attend all meetings of the Council,
execute all its orders, and close the Council Chamber upon the adjournment of
that body. He or she shall also execute all warrants or legal processes
required to be executed by him or her under any ordinances of the city.
      (1)   Such Chief of Police shall keep either the original or a copy of
each execution, mittimus, or warrant of commitment and return the same to the
Magistrate who committed such person, showing how he or she executed the same.
      (2)   Said Chief of Police shall have the care, custody, and control of
all books, records, equipment, and other property belonging to the police
authority. Upon the expiration of his or her term of office or his or her
resignation or removal therefrom, he or she shall surrender to his or her
successor in office all books, records, equipment, and property of every
description in his or her possession belonging to the city or appertaining to
his or her said office.
      (3)   All police officers, in addition to the other duties required of
them, shall be night police officers of the city and keeper of the Council
Chamber and City Jail. When acting as night police officers, they shall
maintain headquarters at the City Hall. The hours of continuous service as such
night police officers shall be from 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. to
8:00 a.m., but nothing in this section contained shall be held to limit the
Chief of Police duties to these hours, but on the contrary, he or she shall be
subject to call for police duty at all times.
      (4)   All fees charged and collected by said Chief of Police in
connection with the prosecution of any offense under the ordinances of said
city shall be paid over to the City Treasurer.
   (M)   Street lights.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the night police officers to carefully note
the hours in which the street electric lights of the city may fail to render
efficient service during the hours when said lights should be brightly burning
according to contract.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall file with the Council a statement of the
hours of non-service of each lamp and the date of such non-service. Said
statement shall also show the total number of hours of non-service together
with the total hours of required service for the month preceding the date of
filing said statement. The Chief of Police shall file his or her statement with
the Council not later than the Saturday preceding the first Monday of each
month.
   (N)   Engaging in business prohibited. During his or her term of office, a
police officer shall not be engaged in any other business or occupation without
prior approval of the City Council.
   (O)   Regulations of City Police Department.
      (1)   Responsibility for shift. Each police officer shall be responsible
for his or her own shift, and the reports, paper work, and keeping of the log
in relation to the happenings and occurrences on said shift and for the
completion and filing of such papers.
      (2)   Shifts and duties applicable thereto. There shall be three shifts,
namely: shift one, being 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.; shift two, being 4:00 p.m. to
12:00 a.m.; and shift three, being 12:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. Police officers
shall rotate on shifts one, two, and three by badge number. Shifts shall be
assigned in accordance with the following example in divisions (O)(2)(a)
through (O)(2)(c) below.
         (a)   The first week hereafter, the Chief of Police shall have shift
one, Badge No. 2 shall have shift two, and Badge No. 3 shall have shift three.
         (b)   On the second week, the Chief of Police shall have shift three,
Badge No. 2 shall have shift one, and Badge No. 3 shall have shift two.
         (c)   The third week, the Chief of Police shall have shift two, Badge
No. 2 shall have shift three, and Badge No. 3 shall have shift one.
      (3)   Log book and reports. Activities, happenings, and occurrences on
the shift must be recorded in the log book, which shall, at all times, be
available to the members of the Health and Safety Committee and the Mayor.
      (4)   Night duties. The police officer on shift two, that is from 4:00
p.m. to 12:00 a.m., and on shift three, from 12:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m., shall be
responsible for checking the doors of all businesses and reporting street
lights that are out along with other regular duties. It shall be the duty of
all police officers during each shift to pick up dogs running at large or issue
a ticket to the owner of the dog, if reasonably possible, if the dog cannot be
caught.
      (5)   Coffee breaks. During each shift there shall be only two coffee
breaks allowed for a period of 15 minutes each.
      (6)   Police equipment. Police equipment not being used (such as the
extra guns, holsters, badges, radar gun, and tranquilizer gun and other
equipment not being used) are to be locked in the safe in the Clerk’s office
and checked out as needed and checked back in after the need is over. The radar
gun is to be used only when designated by the Health and Safety Committee. Each
officer is furnished one uniform after 90 days from the start of full-time
employment and an allowance twice a year for uniform replacement. Uniforms
furnished to part-time officers must be returned to the City Clerk at the end
of employment before receiving a final paycheck.
   (P)   Chief of Police to patrol park district; conditions.
      (1)   It is in the interest of the city, the users of the grounds and the
facilities of the city park district (herein called the “district”) and the
general public that the ordinances of the district and its rules and
regulations, together with the ordinances of the city and the applicable laws
of the state, be enforced in the district including, but not limited to, the
park grounds and facilities of this district.
      (2)   It is in the interest of the city that the city furnish to the
district the services of its police officers for the enforcement of the
ordinances, rules, regulations, and laws designated in division (P)(1) above.
      (3)   The city shall, upon authorization by ordinance of the district,
furnish said district and its park grounds and facilities with police
protection through the police officers of said city who shall enforce the
ordinances, rules, and regulations of the district; the city ordinances of the
city; and the applicable laws of the state in the territory of the district
including, but not limited to, its park grounds and facilities, and for the
foregoing purposes, the police officers of said city have the right, power, and
authority to enter upon, at any time, the park grounds and facilities of the
district.
      (4)   The police officers of the city, when acting pursuant to this
division (P), shall have all the powers, authorities, and rights which they
would have under law if they were appointed police officers of the district by
the Board of Park Commissioners thereof.
      (5)   This district shall be under no obligation to pay to said city any
expense of the said city in furnishing police protection to this district under
this division (P); provided, however, this district shall be liable to pay all
court costs and witness fees which may be incurred in the enforcement of the
ordinances, rules, regulations, and laws designated herein and which are not
paid by any defendant or defendants in court proceedings.
      (6)   Pursuant to 745 ILCS 10/7-101 and 745 ILCS 10/7-102, the district
shall assume all liability for and indemnify the city from all liability for
any injury to the person or property of any third party or entity occurring
while any officer of city is acting pursuant to the powers herein granted, and
the district shall procure and maintain liability insurance coverage insuring
the city police during their performance under this agreement.
      (7)   The attorney for the district shall prosecute all violations
occurring within the district, not prosecuted by the County State’s Attorney.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 8) (Ord. 4 (Series 1975-1976), passed - -; Ord.
8 (Series 1975-1976), passed - -; Ord. 8 (Series 1977-1978), passed - -)
§ 31.44 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created the office of Public Works
Director in the city.
   (B)   Appointment and term of office. Hereafter, the Public Works Director
of the city shall hold office by appointment by the Mayor with the approval of
the City Council, and the term of office shall be for one year and until his or
her successor is appointed and qualified.
   (C)   Eligibility requirements. No person shall be eligible for the office
of Public Works Director unless he or she shall, at the time of his or her
appointment, be at least 21 years of age, shall be of good moral character, and
have a telephone in his or her residence or home.
   (D)   Application for office. Any person desiring to be appointed Public
Works Director may file with the City Clerk a written application for said
office on or before April 1 in the year in which he or she seeks such
appointment.
   (E)   Residency requirement. Any person who is appointed Public Works
Director must continue to actually reside in said city, and if any appointee
shall reside outside said city, then the office shall, by the City Council, be
declared vacant, and the vacancy shall be filled by the appointment by the
Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, of some qualified person to such
office without any written application therefor being required, and any person
appointed to fill a vacancy in office which occurs for any reason shall hold
office until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
   (F)   Compensation. The compensation of the Public Works Director shall be
fixed by the City Council by resolution at the time the office is filled by
appointment. The compensation of the said Public Works Director shall be paid
from the particular fund of the department of the city government under whose
direction he or she is at any time employed, and his or her compensation, when
paid, shall be prorated from the funds of the several departments of said city
government by whom he or she has been employed.
   (G)   Powers and duties. The Public Works Director shall have all the powers
and duties now specified by law or ordinance and shall have such other duties
and powers as the City Council shall from time to time specify.
   (H)   Removal from office. The said Public Works Director shall, at all
times, be subject to the control of the City Council, and he or she may be
removed from office by the City Council for a failure or refusal to comply with
any lawful direction of said Council or the Public Works Committee of said
Council or for a failure or refusal to discharge any of his or her duties.
   (I)   Vacancy. A vacancy in the office of Public Works Director shall exist
by reason of death, resignation, removal from the said city, inability to
discharge the duties of the office by reason of ill health or other cause, and
by removal from office by action of the City Council; when any such vacancy
shall exist, the said office shall be filled in the same manner as provided in
division (D) above.
   (J)   Security bond. The Public Works Director shall, before entering upon
the duties of his or her office, take and subscribe the oath required of other
officers and file the same with the City Clerk and shall also execute a bond in
the penal sum of $1,000 with surety to be approved by the Council, the
conditions of said bond to be the same as in the case of other city officers.
   (K)   Supervision of construction and maintenance. Subject, at all times, to
the orders and directions of the Public Works Committee, he or she shall have
full control over all persons employed in the construction and maintenance of
the streets and sidewalks of said city. He or she shall keep such time books as
may be directed by said Committees and shall perform such other duties as are
necessary to the fulfillment of the purposes of his or her office.
   (L)   List of materials and equipment. It shall be the duty of the Public
Works Director to keep a correct list of all implements, materials, and other
property of the city in his or her charge or possession, and upon the
expiration of his or her term of office or his or her resignation or removal
therefrom, he or she shall deliver said property to his or her successor in
office, taking a receipt therefor which he or she shall immediately file with
the City Clerk, who shall credit him or her with the same and charge his or her
successor therewith.
   (M)   Account of expenditures. Said Public Works Director shall keep in an
appropriate book, an accurate account of his or her expenditures made under his
or her supervision, and the hours of time consumed therein so that the total
costs and time consumed of any certain piece of street work may be ascertained
upon the completion thereof.
   (N)   Enforcement of ordinances. Said Public Works Director shall cause all
ordinances in relation to streets, alleys, and sidewalks to be enforced and
shall file complaints and prosecute in the name of the city, all persons for
violation thereof. He or she shall, under the direction of the Public Works
Committee, be charged with the construction, maintenance, repair, inspection,
and supervision of all sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of said city and shall,
whenever the condition of any such sidewalk, culvert, or bridge is deemed by
him or her to be unsafe or likely to result in damage to the city or to any
person, make immediate report of such condition to the Council or to the
Chairperson of the Public Works Committee, as the case may require.
   (O)   Duties imposed by city. The said Public Works Director shall be
subject to duties imposed and directed by any department of the city
government, provided that such duties and the imposition of them are not in
conflict with the plans of the Public Works Committee.
   (P)   Manual labor. The said Public Works Director shall, when necessary,
act in the capacity of a maintenance person, actually laboring upon the streets
and fulfilling, by manual labor, the purposes of his or her office, as well as
acting as a foreperson of a crew of workers.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 9) (Ord. 10 (Series 1950-1951), passed - -;
Ord. 6 (Series 1973-1974), passed - -)
§ 31.45 SEWERS AND WATER WORKS; PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Creation of Department. There is hereby created a department of the
city to be known as the Public Sewers and Water Works Department, which shall
be under the supervision of a committee of three members of the City Council,
to be appointed in the same manner as provided for the appointment of other
committees. This Committee shall have and exercise a general supervision over
and shall manage the sewer and water works systems of the city along with all
the pumping works, wells, galleries, machinery, reservoirs, distributing pipes,
hydrants, sewers materials, water rents and the collection thereof, lines,
apparatus, property, and effects of every kind appertaining to the said sewer
and water works systems except the buildings and grounds which are, by
provision of ordinance, assigned to the Committee of Public Grounds and
Buildings.
   (B)   Creation of Public Works Director. There is hereby created the office
of Public Works Director, who shall hold his or her office for one year or
until his or her successor shall be elected and qualified.
   (C)   Election and term of office. He or she shall be elected at the first
regular meeting of the Council in May of each year or as soon thereafter as
practicable.
   (D)   Security bond. He or she shall, before entering the duties of his or
her office, execute a bond to the city in the sum of $1,000 with such sureties
as the Council shall approve, conditioned as provided by law.
   (E)   Maintenance of systems. The Public Works Director shall, under the
direction of the Committee on Public Sewers and Water Works, have immediate
charge of the maintenance and operation of the sewer and water works systems
and shall employ and have charge of such assistants and labor as may be
necessary therefor, the compensation of such employees to be fixed by the
Committee on Public Sewers and Water Works.
   (F)   General duties.
      (1)   He or she shall read all meters and report to the City Clerk for
collection all sums due to the city for water used by water takers or services
performed.
      (2)   He or she shall operate and maintain in good repair the pumping and
filtration plants of the water works system and, at all times, shall keep not
less than 50,000 gallons of water in the water tank.
      (3)   He or she shall see that the water supply, pumping machinery,
pipes, hydrants, valves, and all other structures and appurtenances used in the
operation and maintenance of the plant shall be kept in good condition or
repair and that all tools, materials, and appliances belonging to the plant are
properly taken care of and accounted for.
   (G)   Compensation. The Public Works Director shall receive, in full
compensation for his or her services, such sum as may be determined upon by the
Council, payable monthly. The salary of the Public Works Director shall be set
by the Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 10)
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.60 HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE.
   (A) Health and Safety Committee.
      (1)   Creation of Committee. There is hereby created a committee to be
known as the Health and Safety Committee. The Chief of Police shall be officer
to the Health and Safety Committee, and the City Clerk shall be the Clerk of
the Health and Safety Committee. They, together with a competent physician (to
be known as Public Health Physician and to be appointed by the Mayor, upon the
recommendation of the Health and Safety Committee, shall constitute said Health
and Safety Committee.
      (2)   Rules and regulations. The Health and Safety Committee shall abate
all nuisances and make such rules and regulations as may be necessary or proper
for the preservation and protection of the public health and comfort of said
city.
      (3)   Wearing apparel; bedding. Wearing apparel or bedding which may be
deemed infectious or likely to endanger the public health and safety shall be
disinfected or destroyed.
      (4)   Work and expenses. All work done or expenses incurred in the Health
and Safety Committee shall be under the general supervision of the Chairperson
of the Health and Safety Committee. All bills or accounts for expenses incurred
in health matters shall be presented to him or her for his or her approval, and
if found correct, he or she shall certify the same to the City Council for
allowance.
(Prior Code, Chapter 8, Article 1)
   (B)   Health regulations; quarantine.
      (1)   Physician’s report - contagious disease. Every practicing physician
in the city who shall have a patient herein laboring under any contagious,
infectious, or pestilential disease shall forthwith make report thereof in
writing to the Clerk of the Health and Safety Committee, stating that name and
describing the locality of such patient so that he or she may be easily found.
      (2)   Quarantine-regulations. If any person in the city shall have the
smallpox or other malignant and infectious disease, the Clerk of the Health and
Safety Committee may, upon information thereof, cause notices with the words,
“SMALLPOX HERE,” or other suitable wording, containing the name of such disease
in large letters to be posted in some conspicuous place on the house or
premises occupied by such person, thereby declaring such house or premises to
be under state of quarantine.
         (a)   It shall be the duty of the occupant or occupants of such house
or place to keep such notices so posted as long as directed by said Health and
Safety Committee.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, visit, or leave
any such place so quarantined without the written permission of the Physician
to the Health and Safety Committee until such disease is terminated, the
premises thoroughly fumigated and disinfected, and the danger of spreading or
communicating such disease has reasonably passed; further, it shall be unlawful
for any person to buy, receive, or exchange goods or articles from such
quarantined premises or do any other act by which such disease might be caught
or transmitted.
         (c)   This division (B)(2) shall not be construed to prevent any such
person or family so isolated and quarantined from having the attendance and
treatment of nurses under such protection, precautions, and regulations as will
prevent the communication and spread of any such disease, to be approved by the
Physician to the Health and Safety Committee. This division (B)(2) shall also
not be construed as to prevent relatives and particular or close friends from
entering such quarantined place without written permission, but they shall not
be permitted to leave again until the person so isolated and quarantined
hereunder is permitted to leave, the same as herein provided.
      (3)   Additional rules. The Health and Safety Committee may also make
such other and further regulations respecting quarantined persons as they shall
deem meet and proper and as the exigencies of the case may require. The Chief
of Police shall superintend and guard the supplying of food, clothing, and
other necessaries of the persons quarantined and also take such other
reasonable precautions as will prevent the communication and spread of any such
disease. Dogs, cats, and other domestic animals in any such quarantined place
shall be restrained or impounded and prevented from spreading or carrying any
such contagious, infectious, or pestilential disease.
(Prior Code, Chapter 8, Article 2)
Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.61 BAND COMMISSION.
   (A)   Band Commission. There is hereby created by the City Council a
Commission to be known as the City Band Commission. This Commission shall
consist of five persons appointed by the Mayor at the beginning of each year,
with the approval of the City Council. In so appointing the members of the Band
Commission, the Mayor and the City Council shall appoint a Chairperson, and the
Band Commission shall annually select its Vice Chairperson and Secretary.
   (B)   Municipal Band Tax. The tax which is levied by the city for the
municipal band, pursuant to Ord. 11 (Series 1951-1952), shall be maintained by
the City Clerk and held as funds available for the operation of the municipal
band by the Band Commission.
   (C)   Commission’s duties. The Commission shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Prior to adoption of the Appropriation Ordinance, the Commission
shall annually present to the City Council its recommendations for annual
appropriations for the City Band Commission;
      (2)   Supervise and authorize the expenditures of funds from the
Municipal Band Tax and rentals and other revenues, and all expenditures of said
fund shall first be recommended by the Band Commission to the City Council and
shall be expended only upon authorization by the City Council;
      (3)   Supervise the summer band program;
      (4)   Authorize use of the city band instruments by students of School
District No. 328, establishing appropriate rental arrangements and provisions
for insurance on said instruments with the city as the named insured, all such
rental fees to be paid into the Band Fund of the city for the use of the Band
Commission as above described;
      (5)   Arrange for summer band lessons and concerts by the municipal band
through cooperation with the school district utilizing the high school band,
the middle school band, the beginning bands, and community adults and arrange
for a Summer Director of the municipal band;
      (6)   Supervise the maintenance and repair of all city band instruments
by presentation of proposals for same to the City Council, same to be
authorized as provided in division (C)(3) above;
      (7)   Within 30 days after appointment each year, file with the City
Clerk a written inventory of all city-owned band instruments in the possession
of the Commission or the school district, annually updating said inventory by
adding to it instruments purchased during the year and deleting from the
instruments discarded, if any; and
      (8)   The Band Commission shall meet at least four times each year, all
such meetings to be held at the City Hall, during fiscal year 1990, and as
established by the Band Commission thereafter.
   (D)   Annual plan for summer concerts. Prior to June 15 of each year, the
Band Commission shall file with the City Clerk and the Mayor a written plan
providing the following information: the name of the Summer Band Director, the
dates and times of summer band concerts, and such other information as the Band
Commission deems appropriate.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 12) (Ord. 9 (Series 1989-1990), passed 11-20-
1989)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of §
31.21 or the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, being 5 ILCS 430/1 et
seq. to an Ethics Commission, an Inspector General, the state police, a State
Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An Ethics Commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes a false, frivolous,
or bad faith allegation.
   (C)   The penalties for violations of §
31.22 shall be the same as those penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for
similar violations of the Act referred to in said section.
   (D)   Any violations of §
31.43 shall be subject to suspension, dismissal, or reprimand, upon
recommendation to the Council by either the Mayor or the Health and Safety
Committee but only after approval by a majority vote of the Council. The Health
and Safety Committee is to have the power to suspend, but only with Council
approval, any officer violating any of the rules therein set forth for three
days for the first offense and six days for the second offense.
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Article 8)
   (E)   (1)   For any neglect or failure of §
31.60(B)(1) to so report, said physician shall incur a penalty of not less than
$5 nor more than $25.
      (2)   There shall be a penalty for violation of §
31.60(B)(2) of not less than $5 nor more than $25.
(Prior Code, Chapter 8, Article 2)
(Ord. 2 (Series 2004-2005), passed 5-3-2004; Ord. 7 (Series 2018-2019), passed
11-5-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 430/50-5
CHAPTER 32: PROSECUTIONS AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Section
   
32.01   Suits less than $200
   
32.02   Complaints
   
32.03   Action against incorporated companies
   
32.04   Unnamed defendants
   
32.05   Bond
   
32.06   Failure to appear
   
32.07   Jury trial
   
32.08   Arresting officers as witnesses
   
32.09   Change of venue
   
32.10   Court costs
   
32.11   Recovery of fines; failure to pay
   
32.12   Authorizing guilty plea
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01 SUITS LESS THAN $200.
   All suits or actions for the recovery of any fine, penalty, or forfeiture
arising under the laws or ordinances of the city where the amount sued for or
in controversy does not exceed $200 may be brought before any Police Magistrate
or Justice of the Peace in said city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 1)
§ 32.02 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Complaints. When any violation of any law or ordinance of the city
shall come to the knowledge of the Chief of Police or to any member of the
Police Department, he or she shall, without delay, make or cause to be made the
proper complaint before a Police Magistrate or Justice of the Peace and furnish
the Police Magistrate or Justice of the Peace the names of necessary witnesses
to be subpoenaed or other evidence procured for the successful prosecution of
the offender.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 2)
   (B)   Defects in complaints. No suit or proceeding, under the laws or
ordinances of said city, shall be dismissed for any defect or informality in
the complaint if the offense is substantially alleged therein, and amendments
may be allowed in all cases upon such terms as the Magistrate or Court shall
deem just and reasonable.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 4)
§ 32.03 ACTION AGAINST INCORPORATED COMPANIES.
   When any action shall be brought against any incorporated company for a
violation of any law or ordinance of said city, the Police Magistrate or
Justice of the Peace before whom the complaint is made shall issue a summons
against the company, stating therein the nature of the action or suit, which
summons shall be returnable as provided by law and may be executed by leaving a
copy thereof with the President, Secretary, Public Works Director, General
Agent, Cashier, or Principal Clerk of such company, if any of them can be found
in the county or, if none shall be found in the county, by leaving a copy of
the summons with any director, clerk, or other agent to be found within the
county; upon the return of such summons duly served, the Magistrate or Justice
of the Peace shall proceed to hear and determine the case in like manner as
other cases are heard and determined.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 3)
§ 32.04 UNNAMED DEFENDANTS.
   If the name of any defendant is unknown, he or she may be designated by any
description by which he or she can, with certainty, be identified, and if, upon
arrest, he or she shall refuse to disclose his or her true name, he or she may
be tried and convicted by the designation used in the warrant. But where the
true name of any defendant is known to the Magistrate or can be ascertained by
him or her, it shall be the duty of such Magistrate to place the same upon his
or her docket, and the defendant shall be tried under such name.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5)
§ 32.05 BOND.
   Any person who may be arrested or in the custody of any police officer for a
violation of any ordinance of the city may be released from custody or
imprisonment by entering into such bonds or recognizance, as is provided for by
the laws of the state in such cases, before any Police Magistrate or Justice of
the Peace of the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 6)
§ 32.06 FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   When any person being arrested or in custody and having given bond, as
aforesaid, shall fail to appear at the time and place mentioned in said bond
when and where the suit is set for trial, the Magistrate or Justice of the
Peace may proceed with the hearing of the case and hear the testimony on behalf
of the city and render judgment, by default, for such amount as the Court shall
deem just and proper under the evidence in the case, and a suit may be
forthwith brought against the surety or sureties on the defendant’s bond for
the amount of the penalty thereof, judgment rendered by the court for the same,
and all costs or so much of such penalty as may seem just and equitable, upon
consideration of the facts and circumstances of the case.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 7)
§ 32.07 JURY TRIAL.
   Any person arraigned before a Police Magistrate or Justice of the Peace for
a violation of any ordinance of the city shall have the case tried by a jury,
unless he or she shall waive a jury trial by executing a formal waiver in
writing. The number, impaneling, and qualifications of jurors shall be governed
by the state statutes in relation to like proceedings before Justices of the
Peace.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 8)
§ 32.08 ARRESTING OFFICERS AS WITNESSES.
   All police officers making arrests shall attend as witnesses before the
Police Court and shall procure all necessary evidence in their power and
furnish a list of all witnesses to the Magistrate or City Attorney.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 9)
§ 32.09 CHANGE OF VENUE.
   If any Police Magistrate or Justice of the Peace shall neglect or refuse to
hold a Police Court at any reasonable time, when so required, or shall fail to
pay into the city treasury any monies collected by him or her for the use of
the corporation, the Council may order all suits in the name of the city for
the recovery of any fine or penalty to be brought before some other Magistrate
or Justice of the Peace.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 10)
§ 32.10 COURT COSTS.
   Where a proceeding is brought by the city before any Police Magistrate or
Justice of the Peace for the collection of a fine or penalty and violation of
one of the ordinances of said city, the city shall, in such case, guarantee the
legal costs of such proceeding which are earned by: the presiding Justice or
Magistrate; the jurors, if any, demanded by either party of the extent of six
jurors; and all witnesses subpoenaed or otherwise called to testify on behalf
of the city. Upon the payment of such costs by the city where it is the duty of
opposing party to pay such costs, the city shall then be subrogated to all
rights and claims for such costs of such persons, as aforesaid, who have thus
been paid by the city against said opposing party. When such costs, as
aforesaid, have accrued, the Magistrate or Justice shall present his or her
statement of accrued costs to the Council at its next regular meeting, and when
allowed, said costs shall be paid to the persons entitled thereto directly as
in the usual manner of paying bills.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 11)
§ 32.11 RECOVERY OF FINES; FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   Recovery of fines. No cause or proceeding shall be commenced on behalf
of the city for the recovery of any fine or penalty for violation of any of the
ordinances of said city unless the same is commenced by or upon the authority
of the Mayor, Chief of Police or other member of the police force, City
Attorney, or City Council by its authorized agent.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 12)
   (B)   Failure to pay fine. Any person convicted of a violation of any
ordinance of the city, upon whom any fine or penalty is imposed by the Court or
Magistrate before whom the conviction is had, and who fails or refuses to
immediately pay such fine or penalty together with the costs of suit shall be
committed, forthwith and without issuance of any execution, by the said Court
or Magistrate to the City Jail or any other place of incarceration provided by
any ordinance now or hereafter enacted until the fine, penalty, and costs are
fully paid; provided, any person so committed shall have credit of $5 upon such
fine, penalty, and costs for each 24 hours of incarceration, and no person
shall be incarcerated for more than six months for any one offense.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 13)
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.12 AUTHORIZING GUILTY PLEA.
   (A)   As to any ordinance violation complaints filed by the city or by its
police officers with the Clerk of the Ninth Judicial Circuit of Illinois,
Carthage, at any time after the effective date of this chapter for any
violation of any of the city’s ordinances, except those listed in §
32.03, the Circuit Clerk is hereby authorized to accept a guilty plea thereon
by the defendant, in consideration of the payment of a fine of $25 plus court
costs of $10 for a total of $35, without the necessity of the defendant
appearing in open court thereon, and the said Circuit Clerk is authorized to
accept said guilty plea and waiver of trial hereinafter mentioned either by
mail or in person, in the Clerk’s office, from the defendant.
   (B)   City ordinance violation complaints provided the defendant by any city
police officer shall contain a notice that the defendant may enter a plea of
guilty by mail unless the ticket is marked “must appear in court,” and tickets
provided to defendants and offenders shall contain the following notice:
 
   IMPORTANT
 
Unless the front side of this ticket is marked “X MUST APPEAR IN COURT,” you may
enter a plea of “Guilty” without a court appearance by delivering (in person or by
agent or attorney) or mailing to the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of
the county in which the violation occurred, not earlier than 5 court days after
arrest (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) and not later than 3 court
days (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) before the date you are
directed to report to the court, your written plea of “Guilty” and pay the
prescribed fine and costs, City ordinances provided that offenses which do not
require a court appearance may be satisfied by a written plea of guilty and payment
of a fine in the amount of $25, plus costs of $10 (total $35). If cash bail was
posted the Clerk will apply the amount to payment of the fine and costs, ff a
driver’s license or bond certificate was deposited, the full amount of the fine and
costs must be paid to the Clerk before the Clerk may return the driver’s license or
bond certificate.
 
Payment of fine and costs remitted to the Clerk of the Circuit Court shall be in
the form of cash, money order, certified bank check, or travelers’ checks issued by
major banks or express companies.
 
   (C)   Also on the violator’s copy of the ticket, the following appearance,
plea of guilty, and waiver shall appear:
 
   APPEARANCE, PLEA OF GUILTY AND WAIVER
 
I, the undersigned, do hereby enter my appearance on the complaint of the
offense charged on the other side of this ticket. I have been informed of my
right to a trial, that my signature to this plea of guilty will have the same
force and effect as a judgment of Court. I do hereby PLEAD GUILTY to said
offense as charged, WAIVE my right to a HEARING by the Court, and agree to pay
the penalty prescribed for my offense.
 
   _______________________________
   Defendant’s Signature
 
   ______________________________
   Address
 
   (D)   This section shall not apply to the following violations, and all of
same shall be marked “must appear in court:”
      (1)   All city ordinances defining offenses comparable to the following:
         (a)   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officers;
         (b)   Leaving the scene of an accident involving death or injury to
persons;
         (c)   Leaving the scene of an accident involving vehicle damage;
         (d)   Failure to give aid or information;
         (e)   Failure to give notice after collision with an unattended
vehicle;
         (f)   Making a false report;
         (g)   Driving under the influence of liquor or drugs;
         (h)   Reckless driving;
         (i)   Drag racing;
         (j)   Speeding when more than 30 mph over the posted limit;
         (k)   Refusal to stop and submit vehicle and load to weighing after
being directed to do so by an officer or removal of load prior to weighing;
         (l)   Any traffic offense which results in an accident causing the
death of any person or injury to any person other than the accused; and
         (m)   Any conservation offense.
      (2)   The charging of any offense in violation of any statute of the
state; and
      (3)   Any offense for which a court appearance is required by Supreme
Court Rule 526, 529, or 551.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 14) (Ord. 23 (Series 1979-1980), passed - -)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
32.11(A) shall be a misdemeanor and punishable as otherwise provided in this
chapter for the Justice of the Peace or Police Magistrate to issue any warrant
or summons or otherwise commence any such proceeding, as therein specified,
without the same being authorized as provided therein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 12)
CHAPTER 33: PUBLIC SAFETY; EMERGENCIES
Section
Public Safety
   
33.01   Mutual aid between Police Departments
   
33.02   Part-time employment
   
33.03   Security at public meetings
Emergencies
   
33.15   Adoption of the County Comprehensive Emergency Operation Plan
   
33.16   Emergency Service and Disaster Agency established
   
33.17   Coordinator
   
33.18   Functions
   
33.19   Mutual aid agreement
   
33.20   Emergency action
   
33.21   Compensation
   
33.22   Reimbursement; purchases and expenditures; appropriations
   
33.23   Oath
   
33.24   Office
PUBLIC SAFETY
§ 33.01 MUTUAL AID BETWEEN POLICE DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   The City Police Department is authorized to give and request mutual
aid from the cities of Carthage, Warsaw, and/or Nauvoo upon and after adoption
of the ordinance codified in this section by those cities.
   (B)   Mutual aid, given or requested, is to be provided or received by the
Police Department of the city only as to those cities adopting this section and
only after approval for the giving or receiving of such aid by the City Council
except in an emergency situation.
   (C)   In an emergency situation where the life of a police officer or any
other person is threatened in some manner or in a situation where a police
officer or other person is in immediate danger of grave bodily harm or in a
situation where property is threatened, the Chief of Police, if available, or
the officer on duty, if the Chief is not available, is authorized to request or
provide mutual aid to cities adopting the ordinance codified herein without
prior approval of the City Council, under division (B) above.
   (D)   Mutual aid shall consist of the dispatching of one or more officers,
cars, and equipment from the responding Police Department to the requesting
Police Department.
   (E)   Mutual aid shall not be binding or obligatory on the responding city
and whether to send aid shall be subject to the sole discretion of the
responding city, considering the circumstances of the situation and the need
for officers to remain on duty in the responding city.
   (F)   Whenever any responding police officers of any city adopting the
provisions of this section are engaged in a response in the requesting city,
they shall have the same powers, duties, privileges, rights, and immunities as
members of the Police Department of the requesting city, subject to the
provisions herein. They shall have the authority of the police of the
requesting city and of a peace officer within the territorial jurisdiction of
the requesting city.
   (G)   Officers of a responding aid city shall be under the direction and
control of the Chief of Police or officer in charge in the requesting city.
   (H)   For purposes of worker’s compensation, the responding police officer
remains the employee of his or her city and is not a joint employee with the
requesting city. The cost of salary and benefits accruing to a police officer,
and the cost of damage incurred to vehicles or equipment owned by a police
officer or his or her employing city while performing duties as a provider
under this section shall be borne by the police officer’s own employing city or
the police officer if the equipment is owned by the police officer.
(Ord. 13 (Series 2008-2009), passed 9-2-2008)
§ 33.02 PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Part-time police employment.
      (1)   Employment. The city may employ part-time police officers from time
to time as they deem necessary.
      (2)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the
responsibilities of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as
delineated in the general orders and policy of the City Police Department, but
the number of hours a part-time officer may work within a calendar year is
restricted. Part-time police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or
direct full-time police officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in
accordance with the State Police Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and the
rules and requirements of the State Law Enforcement Training and Standards
Board, ILETSB.
      (3)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
         (a)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound
health, and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
         (b)   Be at least 21 years of age;
         (c)   Pass a medical examination;
         (d)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
         (e)   Possess a valid state driver’s license;
         (f)   Possess no prior felony or criminal misdemeanor convictions; and
         (g)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. Military must have
been honorably discharged.
      (4)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time officers serve at the discretion
of the city authorities, shall not have any property rights in said employment,
and may be removed by the city authorities at any time. Part-time police
officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general orders and policy
issued by the City Police Department.
   (B)   Consultants and part-time assistance in emergencies. The Public Works
Director and Chief of Police are authorized to declare the need for such
assistance and to employ consultants and assistants and part-time workers
whenever any such official perceives that an emergency situation exists and to
arrange and agree for reasonable compensation to be paid by the city and to be
approved at the next City Council meeting following such employment
   (C)   Consultation needed for employee approval. Each official so named is
to consult with the Mayor or the City Clerk or the Committee Chairperson or, if
unavailable, at least one other Councilperson, if possible, prior to any such
employment. The above-mentioned city officials are authorized, in their
discretion, to determine if such emergency exists.
   (D)   Liability; worker’s compensation. Any persons so employed shall be
considered employees of the city, to be covered by workers compensation and
liability insurance which is applicable to the city and shall be included in
the annual workers compensation audit, if any. Such persons so employed shall
not qualify for pensions or health insurance benefits but shall be included as
employees for withholding and FICA tax purposes.
(Ord. 2 (Series 2012-2013), passed 5-7-2012; Ord. 18 (Series 2020-2021), passed
1-19-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
§ 33.03 SECURITY AT PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed to enter a public meeting at the City Hall,
1010 Broadway Street, in possession of any of the following items, and entering
any such public meeting in possession of any of the following is expressly
prohibited:
      (1)   Any gun or firearm of any kind or type;
      (2)   Any knife with any blade longer than two inches;
      (3)   Any drug, controlled substance (as defined in the state statutes),
or any drug-related material or contraband; and
      (4)   No device or instrument that could be used as a weapon, excluding
those items to assist with a handicap accessibility.
   (B)   All persons, property, purses, brief cases, computers (owners of
computers must be able to demonstrate that the computer is functional and
operates), recording devices, electronic devices, clothing or pockets, or other
items may be searched for unauthorized items. Illegal items will subject the
person to arrest.
   (C)   A metal detector shall be used to scan persons when entering the
building. Any indication of metal on or about the person will be subject to
further investigation, which could include a pat-down search of the person for
the purpose of detecting any prohibited item. Entry will be denied to the
building if any person refuses to comply with all reasonable demands of the
screener.
   (D)   Items that are prohibited by this section that are not illegal may be
removed from the building by the owner or they will be retained by the screener
for safekeeping and will be returned to the owner upon his or her departure
from the building and immediately before exit of the building. Illegal items
seized will be subject to further legal action.
   (E)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee will be responsible for the
security of public meetings and will make final determination of eligibility
for entry to the building(s).
   (F)   Entrance to the City Council Chambers will be open to the public 45
minutes prior to the meeting start. Entry to the City Council Chambers, for the
purpose of a public meeting, will require the entrance to the building through
the City Police Department.
   (G)   Compliance with the American with Disabilities Act, ADA, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. for access to the building will be accommodated by
either prior notification to Police Department of your planned attendance by
calling 217-847-3347 or upon arrival at the Police Department where
arrangements will be made to provide access to the Council Chamber. People
subject to ADA shall also be subject to any search deemed appropriate by the
Chief of Police or his or her designee prior to admittance to the building.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2008-2009), passed 9-2-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
EMERGENCIES
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF THE COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY OPERATION PLAN.
   The County Comprehensive Emergency Operation Plan is hereby adopted as the
Emergency Management Plan for the city.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2016-2017), passed 8-15-2016)
§ 33.16 EMERGENCY SERVICE AND DISASTER AGENCY ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created the City ESDA to prevent, minimize, repair, and
alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack,
sabotage, or other hostile action or from natural or human-made disaster in
accordance with the State Emergency Services and Disaster Act of 1975. The ESDA
shall consist of the Coordinator and such additional members as may be selected
by the Coordinator.
(Prior Code, Chapter 8, Article 3, § 1) (Ord. 1 (Series 1985-1986), passed 7-
15-1985)
§ 33.17 COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Coordinator of the City ESDA shall be appointed by the Mayor and
shall serve until removed by the same.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibilities for the
organization, administration, training, and operation of the City ESDA, subject
to the direction and control of the Mayor as provided by statute.
   (C)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death, or inability to serve
as the Coordinator, the Mayor or any other person designated by him or her
shall be and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made, as provided in
this section.
(Prior Code, Chapter 8, Article 3, § 2) (Ord. 1 (Series 1985-1986), passed 7-
15-1985)
§ 33.18 FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   Functions.
      (1)   The City ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the city as
shall be described in and by the State ESDA Plan and Program prepared by the
Governor and such orders, rules, and regulations as may be promulgated by the
Governor and, in addition, shall perform such duties outside the corporate
limits as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with the county
or any other political subdivision, municipality, or quasi-municipality entered
into as provided in the State ESDA Act of 1975.
      (2)   The City ESDA is hereby authorized to, as is necessary during any
emergency, function or operate outside the city limits of the city, as may be
necessary in the judgment of the Coordinator of the City ESDA.   
(Prior Code, Chapter 8, Article 3, § 3)
   (B)   Service as Mobile Support Team.
      (1)   All or any members of the City ESDA may be designated as members of
a Mobile Support Team created by the Director of the State ESDA, as provided by
law.
      (2)   The leader of such Mobile Support Team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the City ESDA Organization.
      (3)   Any member of a Mobile Support Team who is a city employee or
officer, while serving on call to duty by the Governor or the State Director,
shall receive compensation and have the powers, duties, rights, and immunities
incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is not a paid
officer or employee of the city so serving shall receive from the state
reasonable compensation as provided by law.
(Prior Code, Chapter 8, Article 3, § 4)
(Ord. 1 (Series 1985-1986), passed 7-15-1985; Ord. 9 (Series 1991-1992), passed
9-16-1991)
§ 33.19 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT.
   The Coordinator of the City ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with
other cities or political subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement
shall be effective until it has been approved by the Mayor and by the State
Director of ESDA.
(Prior Code, Chapter 8, Article 3, § 5) (Ord. 1 (Series 1985-1986), passed 7-
15-1985)
§ 33.20 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action or
from human-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the City ESDA to
cooperate fully with the State ESDA and with the Governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law.
(Prior Code, Chapter 8, Article 3, § 6) (Ord. 1 (Series 1985-1986), passed 7-
15-1985)
§ 33.21 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the city, if
called for training by the State Director of ESDA, shall receive for the time
spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position
held; members who are not city employees or officers shall receive for such
training time such compensation as may be established by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, Chapter 8, Article 3, § 7) (Ord. 1 (Series 1985-1986), passed 7-
15-1985)
§ 33.22 REIMBURSEMENT; PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES; APPROPRIATIONS.
   (A)   Reimbursement by the state. The State Treasurer may receive and
allocate to the appropriate fund any reimbursement by the state to the city for
expenses incident to training members of the ESDA, as prescribed by the State
Director of ESDA; compensation for services and expenses of members of a Mobile
Support Team while serving outside the city in response to a call by the
Governor or State Director of ESDA, as provided by law; and any other
reimbursement made by the state incident to ESDA activities as provided by law.
(Prior Code, Chapter 8, Article 3, § 8)
   (B)   Purchases and expenditures.
      (1)   The Mayor may, on recommendation of the City Coordinator of ESDA,
authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to place the city in a position
to combat effectively any disaster resulting
from the explosion of any nuclear or other bomb or missile and to protect the
public health and safety, protect property, and provide emergency assistance to
victims in the case of such disaster or from human-made or natural disaster.
      (2)   In the event of enemy-caused or other disasters, the Coordinator of
the City ESDA is authorized, on behalf of the city, to procure such services,
supplies, equipment, or material as may be necessary for such purposes in view
of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to city contracts or obligations, as
authorized by the State ESDA Act of 1974; provided, if the Mayor meets at such
time, he or she shall act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by
that body.
(Prior Code, Chapter 8, Article 3, § 9)
   (C)   Appropriation - levy of taxes. The Mayor may make an appropriation for
ESDA purposed in the manner provided by law and may levy, in addition, for ESDA
purposes only, a tax not to exceed $0.05 property in addition to all other
taxes, as provided by the State ESDA Act of 1975; however, that amount
collectable under such levy shall in no event exceed $0.25 per capita.
(Prior Code, Chapter 8, Article 3, § 12)
(Ord. 1 (Series 1985-1986), passed 7-15-1985)
§ 33.23 OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve, in any capacity, in the City ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the
following oath, which shall be filed with the Coordinator:
“I, ________ do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend and
bear true faith and allegiance to the constitution of the United States and the
constitution of Illinois, and the Territory, institutions and facilities
thereof both public and private, against all enemies, foreign and domestic;
that I take this obligation freely, without mental reservation or purposes of
evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I
am about to enter. And I do further swear or affirm that I do not advocate, nor
am I a member of any political party or organization that advocated the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State by force or
violence; and that during such time as I am affiliated with the Hamilton ESDA
organization, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this State by force or violence.”
(Prior Code, Chapter 8, Article 3, § 10) (Ord. 1 (Series 1985-1986), passed 7-
15-1985)
§ 33.24 OFFICE.
   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in a city building or elsewhere
as may be provided for by the Mayor for the City ESDA as its office.
(Prior Code, Chapter 8, Article 3, § 11) (Ord. 1 (Series 1985-1986), passed 7-
15-1985)
CHAPTER 34: TAXATION AND FINANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Fiscal year and deposits
   
34.02   Appropriations, claims, audits, and funds
   
34.03   Working Cash Fund
   
34.04   Revenue Sharing Trust Fund
   
34.05   FOIA fees
   
34.06   City checks to be cashed
   
34.07   Investment policy
Taxation
   
34.20   General Corporate Fund Tax
   
34.21   Municipal Band Tax
   
34.22   Public Library Fund Tax
   
34.23   Working Cash Fund Tax
   
34.24   Municipal Retailer’s Occupation Tax
   
34.25   Municipal Service Occupation Tax
   
34.26   Municipal Use Tax
   
34.27   Municipal Audit Tax
   
34.28   Judgment Tax
   
34.29   Street Lighting Tax
   
34.30   Street and Bridge Tax
   
34.31   Extension and Maintenance of Sewer Tax
   
34.32   Cannabis Retailer’s Occupation Tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 FISCAL YEAR AND DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The fiscal year of the city shall commence on May 10 in each and every
year and end on May 9 of the succeeding year, both inclusive.
   (B)   The bank or banks in which city revenue is deposited shall be selected
by the Mayor, the Chairperson of the Finance Committee, and the Treasurer of
said city or by any two of them.
   (C)   No bank shall be qualified to receive city funds until it shall have
furnished the City Council with financial statements as required by the state
statutes.
(Prior Code, Chapter 3, Article 2, § 1)
§ 34.02 APPROPRIATIONS, CLAIMS, AUDITS, AND FUNDS.
   (A)   The City Council shall, as soon as practicable after the commencement
of each fiscal year and within the first quarter thereof, pass an ordinance to
be termed the “Annual Appropriation Bill” in which it shall appropriate such
sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and
liabilities of the city government during that fiscal year and, in such
ordinance, shall specify the different objects and purposes for which such
appropriations are made, and the amount appropriated for each object or
purpose; no further appropriations shall be made at any other time during such
fiscal year, except as otherwise expressly provided by law.
   (B)   When any appropriation for any specific object or fund shall have been
exhausted, the City Clerk shall, without delay, notify the Council thereof, and
thereafter, no warrant shall be drawn against the same until further order of
the Council; no additional appropriation to any such fund shall be made by the
Council during the fiscal year, and no expenditure for any improvement to be
paid for out of the General Fund of the corporation shall exceed, in any one
year, the amount provided for such improvement in the Annual Appropriation
Bill, except as otherwise specially provided by law.
   (C)   No claim or account against said city, upon any contract made or debt
incurred by any city officer by authority of the Council or of any ordinance,
shall be audited or allowed or any warrant issued for the payment thereof
unless accompanied by the certificate of the officer by whom or under whose
authority the same was contracted or incurred, stating that he or she has
examined such claim or account and believes that it is just, correct, and
reasonable.
   (D)   At the end of each year, the City Council shall cause a full and
complete examination of all books and accounts of the city to be made and
certified to by competent accountants and shall publish the result of such
examination in the manner provided by law.
   (E)   In the beginning of each fiscal year, all of the revenues of the city
derived from all sources shall be placed in the General Fund and, from the
General Fund, re-distributed pro rata into the several funds of the city in
accordance with the appropriations for the succeeding years.
(Prior Code, Chapter 3, Article 2, § 2)
§ 34.03 WORKING CASH FUND.
   Pursuant to Article 15, §§ 15-11 through 15-16, inclusive, of the State
Revised Cities and Villages Act, being 65 ILCS 20/0.01 et seq., as amended by
an Act approved July 24, 1943, a Working Cash Fund is created and set apart in
the amount of $15,000, to be maintained and administered in the manner
prescribed in §§
34.01 and
34.02 for the purpose of enabling the city to have in its treasury, at all
times, sufficient money to meet demands thereon for ordinary and necessary
expenditures for all general and special purposes.
(Prior Code, Chapter 3, Article 2, § 3) (Ord. 8 (Series 1949-1950), passed - -)
§ 34.04 REVENUE SHARING TRUST FUND.
   (A)   The City Clerk and City Treasurer are hereby directed to establish in
the financial books and accounts of said city a new account to be titled
“Federal Revenue Sharing Trust Fund.”
   (B)   The City Clerk and said City Treasurer are hereby directed to
establish at the Marine Bank and Trust, and First State Bank of Illinois a new
account titled “Federal Revenue Sharing Trust Fund.”
   (C)   The City Clerk and City Treasurer are hereby directed to deposit all
receipts received by the city from the Federal Revenue Sharing Funds, under the
State and Local Fiscal Assistance Act of 1972, directly into said Federal
Revenue Sharing Trust Fund account at the Security State Bank of Hamilton, and
to credit said deposits on their books and records in the Federal Revenue
Sharing Trust Fund account, aforesaid established in the financial books and
records of the city.
   (D)   Subsequent to depositing any funds in the aforesaid bank account and
crediting same on the aforesaid account of the city, the City Clerk and City
Treasurer shall invest in such interest-bearing accounts as the Council shall
from time to time, by motion, direct and shall expend said funds as the Council
shall from time to time, by motion, direct.
   (E)   No funds from any other source shall be credited to or commingled with
the aforesaid funds in the above-named account; however, after being first
deposited in the aforesaid account, said Federal Revenue Sharing Funds may be
thereafter commingled with other city funds for investment purposes only and,
prior to any expenditure of said funds, shall be re-credited to the aforesaid
account and books and ledgers of the city.
   (F)   All of said Federal Revenue Sharing Funds so received shall be
expended by the city only in accordance with the provisions and requirements of
the State and Local Fiscal Assistance Act of 1972, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   (G)   The City Treasurer shall cause to be filed with the United States
Secretary of the Treasury all reports required to be filed by law and
regulations for each semi-annual entitlement period and shall also cause to be
published in the Hancock County Journal-Pilot such reports as are required to
be published, the first filing and publishing of said reports appearing to be
required on or before March 1, 1974.
(Prior Code, Chapter 3, Article 2, § 4) (Ord. 14 (Series 1972-1973), passed - -
)
§ 34.05 FOIA FEES.
   (A)   All requests.
      (1)   No fees shall be charged for the first 50 pages of black and white,
letter- or legal-sized copies requested.
      (2)   Fees for black and white, letter- or legal-sized copies exceeding
50 pages shall be $0.15 per page.
      (3)   The cost of certification shall be $1 per record.
   (B)   Commercial requests.
      (1)   No fees shall be charged for the first eight hours spent by
personnel in searching for or retrieving a requested record.
      (2)   After eight hours spent searching and retrieving requested records,
$10 per hour shall be charged.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2013-2014), passed 9-16-2013)
§ 34.06 CITY CHECKS TO BE CASHED.
   All checks issued by the city shall be cashed within 90 days from their date
of issue, and the City Clerk is authorized to make arrangements with the banks
utilized by the city to provide for rejection of city checks not presented
within 90 days from their date. A legend so indicating shall be typed, stamped,
or printed on all checks. The city shall impose a reissue fee of $25 for any
such stale check requested to be re-issued after 90 days.
(Ord. 10A (Series 2012-2013), passed 10-1-2012)
§ 34.07 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Policy. It is the policy of the city to invest public funds in a
manner which will provide the highest investment return with the maximum
security while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the city and conforming
to all state and local statutes governing the investment of public funds.
   (B)   Scope. This policy includes all funds governed by the City Council.
   (C)   Prudence. Investments shall be made with judgment and care under
circumstances then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion, and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation but for investment, considering the probable safety of their
capital as well as the probable income to be derived. The standard of prudence
to be used by investment officials shall be the “prudent person” standard and
shall be applied in the context of managing an overall portfolio.
   (D)   Objective.
      (1)   The primary objective, in order of priority, shall be:
         (a)   Legality. Conformance with federal, state, and other legal
requirements;
         (b)   Safety. Preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal;
         (c)   Liquidity. Maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements; and
         (d)   Yield. Attainment of market rates of return.
      (2)   The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its
effectiveness in meeting the city’s needs for safety, liquidity, rate of
return, diversification, and its general performance.
   (E)   Delegation of authority. Management and administrative responsibility
for the investment program is hereby delegated to the Treasurer, who, under the
delegation of the City Council, shall establish written procedures for the
operation of the investment program.
   (F)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with the proper execution and management of the investment program or
that could impair their ability to make impartial decisions.
   (G)   Authorized financial dealers and institutions. The Treasurer will
maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to provide investment
services. In addition, a list will also be maintained of approved security
brokers/dealers selected by credit worthiness.
   (H)   Authorized and suitable investments. Investments may be made in any
type of security allowed for in state statutes regarding the investment of
public funds. Investments shall be made that reflect the cash flow needs of the
fund type being invested.
   (I)   Collateralization. Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates
of deposit, and the like) in excess of FDIC limits must be secured by some form
of collateral, witnessed by a written agreement, and held at an independent,
third-party institution in the name of the city.
   (J)   Safekeeping and custody. All security transactions, including
collateral for repurchase agreements, entered into by the city shall be
conducted on a delivery-versus-payment (DVP) basis. Securities will be held by
an independent, third-party custodian designated by the Treasurer and evidenced
by safekeeping receipts and a written custodial agreement.
   (K)   Diversification. The city shall diversity its investments to the best
of its ability based on the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs of
those funds. Diversification can be by type of investment, number of
institutions invested in, and length of maturity.
   (L)   Maximum maturities. To the extent possible, the city shall attempt to
match its investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched
to a specific cash flow, the city will not directly invest in securities
maturing more than one year from the date of purchase. Reserve funds may be
invested in securities exceeding one year if the maturity of such investments
are made to coincide as nearly as practicable with the expected use of the
funds.
   (M)   Internal control. The Treasurer is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an internal control structure designed to ensure that the assets of
the city are protected from loss, theft, or misuse. The internal control
structure shall be designed to provide reasonable assurance that these
objectives are met. The internal controls shall address the following points:
      (1)   Control of collusion;
      (2)   Separation of transaction authority from accounting;
      (3)   Custodial safekeeping; and
      (4)   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and
wire transfers.
   (N)   Performance standards. This investment portfolio will be managed in
accordance with the parameters specified within this policy. The portfolio
should obtain a comparable rate of return during a market/economic environment
of stable interest rates. Portfolio performance should be compared to
benchmarks with similar maturity, liquidity, and credit quality as the
portfolio. The city will have to insert its benchmark, such as 90 day T-bill,
Illinois Funds, and the like.
   (O)   Reporting. The Treasurer shall prepare an investment report at least
monthly. The report should be provided to the City Council and available on
request. The report should be in a format suitable for review by the general
public. An annual report should also be provided to the City Council.
   (P)   Marking to market. A statement of the market value of the portfolio
shall be issued to the City Council quarterly.
(Ord. 4 (Series 1999-2000), passed 7-6-1999)
TAXATION
§ 34.20 GENERAL CORPORATE FUND TAX.
   Pursuant to House Bill No. 650 enacted by the 67th State General Assembly,
the maximum tax rate limit for the General Corporate Fund of the city shall be,
and is hereby established at 0.308% of full, fair cash value as determined by
the State Department of Revenue, it being the intention to establish a maximum
tax rate limit for the General Corporate Fund which is 10% greater than the
maximum tax rate limit in effect for said fund as of the date of the adoption
of this section.
(Prior Code, Chapter 25, § 1) (Ord. 13 (Series 1951-1952), passed - -)
§ 34.21 MUNICIPAL BAND TAX.
   Pursuant to House Bill No. 650 enacted by the 67th State General Assembly,
the maximum tax rate limit for the municipal band within the city shall be and
is hereby established at 0.042% of full, fair cash value, as determined by the
State Department of Revenue.
(Prior Code, Chapter 25, § 2) (Ord. 11 (Series 1951-1952), passed - -)
§ 34.22 PUBLIC LIBRARY FUND TAX.
   Pursuant to House Bill No. 650 enacted by the 67th State General Assembly,
the maximum tax rate limit for the Public Library Fund of the city, shall be
and is hereby established at 0.12% of full, fair cash value, as determined by
the State Department of Revenue.
(Prior Code, Chapter 25, § 3) (Ord. 12 (Series 1951-1952), passed - -)
§ 34.23 WORKING CASH FUND TAX.
   In addition to all other taxes which the city has now levied or may
hereafter levy upon all the taxable property within the corporate limits of
said city, subject to taxes for the year 1949, there be and is hereby levied
upon all said taxable property within the corporate limits of said city,
subject to taxes for the year 1949, a tax of 0.05% upon the full, fair cash
value of all said taxable property, subject to taxes for the year 1949, as said
valuation is determined by law; said tax is hereby designated and is to be
known as the Working Cash Fund Tax.
(Prior Code, Chapter 25, § 4) (Ord. 6 (Series 1949-1950), passed - -)
§ 34.24 MUNICIPAL RETAILER’S OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible, personal property at retail in this city at the rate of 0.75%
of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while
this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-
1.
   (B)   Every such person engaged in such business in the city shall file on
or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by § 3 of “An Act in Relation to a Tax Upon
Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to
Purchasers for Use or Consumption” approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible, personal property during the preceding month.
(Prior Code, Chapter 25, § 5) (Ord. 1 (Series 1959-1960), passed - -; Ord. 7
(Series 1967-1968), passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1
§ 34.25 MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality
in the business of making sales of service at the rate of 0.75% of the gross
receipts received from such business, in accordance with the provisions of 65
ILCS 5/8-11-5.
   (B)   Every serviceperson required to account for Municipal Service
Occupation Tax for the benefit of this municipality shall file, on or before
the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department of
Revenue required by § 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 115/
1 et seq.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
(Prior Code, Chapter 25, § 6) (Ord. 3 (Series 1961-1962), passed - -; Ord. 9
(Series 1967-1968), passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5
§ 34.26 MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (A)   (1)   There be and there is hereby a tax imposed in accordance with
the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-6 upon the privilege of using in the
municipality on any item of tangible, personal property which is purchased
outside the state at retail from a retailer and which is titled or registered
with an agency of the state government.
      (2)   The tax shall be at a rate of 1% of the selling price of such
tangible property with the SELLING PRICE to have the meaning as defined in the
Use Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq. approved July 14, 1955.
   (B)   Such tax shall be collected by the State Department of Revenue for all
municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the title or
certificate or registration for the personal property is issued.
(Prior Code, Chapter 25, § 7) (Ord. 15 (Series 1974-1975), passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-11-6
§ 34.27 MUNICIPAL AUDIT TAX.
   The city shall hereafter levy annually, pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-8-8 a tax to
be known as the Municipal Audit Tax.
(Prior Code, Chapter 25, § 8) (Ord. 6 (Series 1975-1976), passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-8-8
§ 34.28 JUDGMENT TAX.
   The city shall hereafter levy annually, pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-1-16, a tax
to be known as the Judgment Tax.
(Prior Code, Chapter 25, § 9) (Ord. 5 (Series 1975-1976), passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-1-16
§ 34.29 STREET LIGHTING TAX.
   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-80-5, the city shall, effective immediately, and in
all years hereafter until this section is repealed, levy a sum equal to 0.05%
of the equalized valuation of all taxable property within the city for a Street
Lighting Tax.
(Prior Code, Chapter 25, § 10) (Ord. 4 (Series 1991-1992), passed 7-15-1991;
Ord. 9 (Series 1994-1995), passed 11-21-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-5
§ 34.30 STREET AND BRIDGE TAX.
   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-81-2, in addition to the annual rate of 0.06%, the
city shall, immediately and for all years hereafter until this section is
repealed, levy an additional tax for street and bridge purposes at a rate not
to exceed 0.04% of the value, as equalized or assessed by the Department of
Revenue, of taxable property within the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 25, § 11) (Ord. 5 (Series 1991-1992), passed 7-15-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-81-2
§ 34.31 EXTENSION AND MAINTENANCE OF SEWER TAX.
   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-143-1, the city shall, for the 1996-1997 fiscal
year and all subsequent years, levy a tax of 0.10% for the extension and
maintenance of sewers for extension and replacement.
(Prior Code, Chapter 25, § 12) (Ord. 4 (Series 1996-1997), passed 7-1-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-143-1
§ 34.32 CANNABIS RETAILER’S OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Recitals. The facts and statements contained in the preamble of the
ordinance codified herein are found to be true and correct and are hereby
adopted as part of this section.
   (B)   Adoption of tax.
      (1)   Tax imposed; rate.
         (a)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business
of selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use
of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, being 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq., at retail
in the city at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts from these sales made in
the course of that business.
         (b)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions
of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-23.
      (2)   Collection of tax by retailers.
         (a)   The tax imposed by this section shall be remitted by such
retailer to the State Department of Revenue (“Department”). Any tax required to
be collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller’s tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
         (b)   The taxes hereby imposed and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto shall be collected and enforced by the
Department. The Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this division (B)(2).
      (3)   Facility location. No facility may be located within 500 feet of
the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, daycare center, daycare home, or
residential care home.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2019-2020), passed 11-18-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-11-22
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   CROSS-CONNECTIONS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Discharge of sanitary sewage and industrial wastewater prohibited
   
50.02   Covering wells and cisterns
   
50.03   Utility taxes
Water Works and Sewerage System Regulations and Standards
   
50.15   Combined water works and sewerage system
   
50.16   Rules and prohibitions
   
50.17   Committee and Public Works Director
   
50.18   Records of change
   
50.19   Destruction of system
   
50.20   Excavations; construction
   
50.21   Meters are city property
   
50.22   Security deposits for sewer and water fees
   
50.23   Enforcement of water and sewer bills
   
50.24   Contracts with water users
   
50.25   Reconnection fees
Plumbing
   
50.40   Requirements
   
50.41   Tapping sewers
   
50.42   Drain grades
   
50.43   Pipe requirements
   
50.44   Fittings
   
50.45   Cleanouts
   
50.46   Privy, vault, or cesspools
   
50.47   Drains connected to sewer system prohibited
   
50.48   Disconnection of water line
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DISCHARGE OF SANITARY SEWAGE AND INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to connect
or cause to be connected any drain carrying or to carry any toilet, sink,
basement, septic tank, cesspool, industrial wastewater, or any fixture or
device discharging polluting substances into any storm sewer system on Keokuk
Street between 13th Street and 15th Street and on 14th Street between Keokuk
Street and the south corporate limits constructed as part of a state
improvement.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
connect or cause to be connected any drain carrying or to carry any toilet,
sink, basement, septic tank, cesspool, industrial waste, or any fixture or
device discharging polluting substances into any storm sewers constructed as
part of this improvement from the west corporate limits northeasterly to
Broadway Street.
      (2)   The city does hereby authorize and empower the Mayor to execute
this division (B) on behalf of the city.
(Ord. 6 (Series 1994-1995), passed 8-15-1994; Ord. 15 (Series 2000-2001),
passed 4-2-2001) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 COVERING WELLS AND CISTERNS.
   It shall be unlawful, within the city, to allow any well or cistern to
remain open or uncovered or to remain without a cover adequate to prevent
persons from falling therein.
(Ord. 8 (Series 1996-1997), passed 9-16-1996) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 UTILITY TAXES.
   (A)   Recitals. The following is hereby adopted as part of this section as
if fully written herein: 65 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq.
   (B)   Imposition of Electricity Tax.
      (1)   Electricity Tax. A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the
privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail
and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the municipality at the
following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
         (a)   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.003843 per kilowatt-hour;
         (b)   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.002520 per kilowatt-hour;
         (c)   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.002268 per kilowatt-hour;
         (d)   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.002205 per kilowatt-hour;
         (e)   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.002142 per kilowatt-hour;
         (f)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: $0.002016 per kilowatt-hour;
         (g)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: $0.001985 per kilowatt-hour;
         (h)   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; $0.001953 per kilowatt-hour;
         (i)   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: $0.001922 per kilowatt-hour; and
         (j)   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month: $0.001890 per kilowatt-hour.
      (2)   Collection of Electricity Tax. The Electricity Tax, authorized
herein, shall be collected from the purchaser by the person maintaining a place
of business in this state who delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This
tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who delivers the
electricity to the purchaser and, if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner
as the original charge for delivering the electricity, any electricity tax
required to be collected pursuant to this section, and any such tax collected
by a person delivering electricity shall constitute a debt owed to the
municipality by such person delivering the electricity. Persons delivering
electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser by adding such tax to the
gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons delivering electricity
shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an amount equal to 3% of
the tax to reimburse the person delivering electricity for the expense incurred
in keeping records, billing customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting
the tax, and supplying data to the municipality upon request. If the person
delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the purchaser, then the
purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to the municipality in the
manner prescribed by the municipality. On or before the last day of each month,
persons delivering electricity shall make a return to the city for the
preceding month and shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the
municipality the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this section.
      (3)   Electricity Tax reports to city.
         (a)   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer who has
not paid the Electricity Tax imposed herein to a person delivering electricity,
as set forth in division (B)(1) above, and who is not otherwise exempted from
paying such tax shall make a return to the City Treasurer for the preceding
month stating:
            1.   His or her name;
            2.   His or her principal place of business;
            3.   His or her kilowatt-hour usage during the month upon the basis
of which the tax is imposed;
            4.   Amount of tax; and
            5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
         (b)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the City Treasurer the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided, in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he or
she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings of
business, subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
   (C)   Imposition of Municipal Gas Tax.
      (1)   Municipal Gas Tax. A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the
business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling gas for use or
consumption within the corporate limits of the city and not for resale at the
rate of 5% of the gross receipts therefrom.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (C), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for distributing,
supplying, furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption and not for
resale, as the case may be, and for all services rendered in connection
therewith valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
cash, credit, services, and property of every kind and material for all
services rendered therewith and shall be determined without any deduction on
account of the service, product, or commodity supplied; the cost of materials
used; labor or service cost; or any other expenses whatsoever. Provided,
however, GROSS RECEIPTS shall not include: any amounts specifically excluded
from the definition of GROSS RECEIPTS in 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2(d) and that portion
of the consideration received for distributing, supplying, furnishing, or
selling gas to school districts or units of local government within the
corporate limits of the city. If the exclusion of the consideration received
for distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling gas to school districts or
units of local government within the corporate limits of the city as set forth
in this definition of GROSS RECEIPTS or the application thereof is held
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, the amount of tax due as a consequence
of such holding shall be limited to the amount that the taxpayer is authorized
to charge and collect from such school districts and units of local government
pursuant the provisions of § 9-221 of the Public Utilities Act, being 220 ILCS
5/1-101 et seq. or any successor thereto.
         PERSONS. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited
liability company, municipal corporation, the state or any of its political
subdivisions, any state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee,
guardian, or other representative appointed by order of any court.
      (3)   Return. On or before the last day of August 2015, each taxpayer
shall make a return to the City Treasurer for the month of July 2015, stating:
         (a)   His or her name;
         (b)   His or her principal place of business;
         (c)   His or her gross receipts during those months upon the basis of
which the tax is imposed;
         (d)   Amount of tax; and
         (e)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      (4)   Payment of Gas Tax. The taxpayer making the return herein provided
for shall, at the time of making such return, pay to the City Treasurer the
amount of tax herein imposed; provided, in connection with any return, the
taxpayer may, if he or she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his
or her total billings of business subject to the tax during the period for
which the return is made (exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with
prompt adjustments of later payments based upon any differences between such
billings and the taxable gross receipts.
   (D)   Exceptions. No tax is imposed herein with respect to any transaction
in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business or
privilege may not, under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made subject to taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof nor
shall any persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas or using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail, be subject to taxation under the provisions of this section
for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under the
provisions of the Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, authorized by 65
ILCS 5/8-11-1, nor shall any tax authorized herein be imposed upon any person
engaged in a business or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in like
manner and at the same rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the same
class in the city, whether privately or municipally owned or operated, or
exercising the same privilege within the city.
   (E)   Taxes in addition. The taxes imposed herein shall be in addition to
the payment of money or value of products or services furnished to the city by
the taxpayer as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys, or other
public places or installation and maintenance therein, thereon, or thereunder
of poles, wires, pipes, or other equipment used in the operation of the
taxpayer’s business or any other taxes levied upon the taxpayer.
   (F)   Credit for overpayment. If it shall appear that an amount of tax has
been paid which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as
the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due or to become due under this section from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided, no amounts erroneously paid
more than three years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so
credited.
   (G)   Statute of limitations. No action to recover any amount of tax due
under the provisions of this section shall be commenced more than three years
after the due date of such amount.
   (H)   Use of funds. All funds generated by this section shall be deposited
in a special account and expended for the sole purpose of street and bridge
maintenance, rehabilitation, or construction.
   (I)   Exception. The city, city park district, School District #328, and
public library shall be exempt from all taxes imposed pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 2 (Series 2015-2016), passed 5-18-2015; Ord. 8 (Series 2015-2016), passed
7-6-2015; Ord. 9 (Series 2015-2016), passed 9-8-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq., 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1, and 65
ILCS 5/8-11-2(d)
WATER WORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS
§ 50.15 COMBINED WATER WORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Purpose. Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-139-1, the city shall operate a
combined water works and sewerage system.
   (B)   Elements. All existing elements of the water works and sewerage
system, as they exist at the date of this section, shall be included as a part
of the combined water works and sewerage system theretofore established,
consisting of, but not limited to, water intake, city water plant, city
distribution system, water tower, metering devices, other works equipment, city
sewers, for the collection of sewage (including feeder sewers, sewer mains, and
other sewer collection facilities), and a city sewer plant.
   (C)   Water works and sewerage projects. Any water works projects or
sewerage projects hereafter constructed shall expressly be a part of the
combined water works and sewerage system herein described.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 10) (Ord. 8.1 (Series 1983-1984), passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-139-1
§ 50.16 RULES AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Public hydrants. All hydrants erected within and by said city, for
fire extinguishing purposes, are hereby declared to be public hydrants, and no
person or persons, other than members of the Fire Department of said city, and
then only for the uses and purposes of such Department, shall open such
hydrants or draw or attempt to draw any water therefrom nor shall any person or
persons, at any time, uncover or attempt to uncover any such hydrant or remove
or attempt to remove therefrom any matter or thing designated or intended for
the protection thereof or, in any manner, interfere or meddle with any such
hydrant. Provided, the Committee on Public Sewers and Water Works may grant to
any suitable person or persons permission to open any such hydrant or hydrants
and draw water therefrom; in which event, such person shall not open such
hydrant to any greater extent nor keep the same open for any greater length of
time nor draw water therefrom for any other purpose nor in any greater quantity
than such as may be specified in and by such permission.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 5)
   (B)   Authority to open fire hydrants. No person authorized to open hydrants
shall delegate his or her authority to another or let out or suffer any person
to take the wrenches furnished him or her or suffer the same to be taken from
any house of said city except for the purpose strictly connected with the Fire
Department or as they accompany fire trucks or equipment on occasions of fires.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 6)
   (C)   Contamination of fountains. No person shall place in, near, or around
any drinking fountain or watering trough any dirt, filth, or any impure
substance or fluid by which the water in such fountains or troughs shall be
rendered impure or unpalatable.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 8)
   (D)   Rules and regulations for water users. The following rules,
regulations, and penalties for the government of water takers and others are
hereby adopted and established.
      (1)   No person except the Public Works Director or persons in his or her
employ shall tap any of the distributing pipes of the water works system or
insert stopcocks or ferrules therein or put in any service pipes between the
mains and the curb stops.
      (2)   No person shall connect any building or premises with the water
works unless an application for such connection has been made, in writing, by
the owner of said building or premises and a permit has been granted therefor
and charges for connection paid.
      (3)   Every person desiring a supply of water from the water works system
must make a written application therefor to the City Clerk.
         (a)   Such application must be signed by the owner of the building or
premises or by his or her duly authorized agent.
         (b)   The application must clearly state the kind of service for which
the connection is intended and the purpose for which the water is to be used,
the size and kind of pipe to be used, the street and number, and the name of
the owner and must be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing the
location thereof and of the service pipes to be connected therewith together
with such other particulars as may be necessary for a full understanding of the
situation.
      (4)   Where the applicant for a water permit is not within the primary
water district, such permit may be granted only in the manner hereinafter
provided.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
connect with or cause to be connected with, any property lying outside of the
water improvement district, with the city water mains without first having
executed a contract or agreement in substantially the following form:
 
THIS AGREEMENT, Made and entered into this ____ day of ______ A.D., 20___, by and
between the City of Hamilton, Illinois, a municipal corporation, _________, party
of the first part, and _________, party of the second part.
 
WITNESSETH:
 
THAT, WHEREAS, The party of the first part Is the owner of a waterworks system,
owned and operated by the said party of the first part for the purpose of
supplying water to the Inhabitants of said City upon certain terms and conditions,
and, WHEREAS, the party of the second part is the owner of a private distributive
system owned by _________ for the purpose of supplying _____ sel _____ with water
necessary for general use, NOW, THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION of the privilege
granted to the party of the second part by the party of the first part, of
connecting said private distributive system to the City water works system at
_____ and _____ Streets, the party of the second part hereby agrees to the
following:
 
1.   That will at all times permit the party of the first part to pass and repass
over and along said distributive system for the purpose of inspecting said pipes,
reading meters, detecting leaks, and to perform any other work appertaining to the
said private distributive system, in which the party of the first part is or may
at any future time be interested.
 
2.   That the party of the first part will not, under any condition, be held
responsible for foul water that may collect in said private distributive system;
neither will said party of the first part pay for or furnish water free of cost
for flushing said pipes for said cause.
 
3.   That the said City of Hamilton will not be held responsible for any damage
caused to persons or property, by latent or patent defects in the construction,
maintenance, character or condition of said private distributive system.
 
4.   That the party of the first part shall have the right to shut off the water,
whenever the party of the second part shall fail, refuse or neglect to maintain,
repair or keep said private distributive system in good condition, or allow same
to deteriorate so that it is not in keeping with the City water mains.
 
5.   That the party of the second part agrees to pay the party of the first part
for all water passing through or indicated by the meter readings upon the same
terms and conditions, and be governed by all ordinances regulating the general
water system of the City of Hamilton, Illinois, the same as though were directly
connected with the public water mains of said City.
 
6.   That the party of the second part will not permit others to attach to said
private distributive system without the written or printed consent of the party of
the first part.
 
7.   That the party of the second part, heirs and assigns, will not use the fact
of having been permitted to connect the private water system with the mains of the
City water system as a basis for contesting or protesting against the extending of
the public mains of the City water system, if at any time the City deems it
necessary or wise to do so; and should any assessment be levied and assessed
against the property of the party of the second part, heirs and assigns, the said
party of the second part, heirs and assigns, agree to not refuse or contest
payment of such assessment because of the fact that said property through said
private distributive system is supplied with water from the public water mains.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, We have hereunto set our hands and seals in duplicate, one
copy of which shall be kept by the City Clerk and one by the party of the second
part, the day and year first above written.
 
 
   CITY OF HAMILTON
 
   By _______________________________
   Mayor
(CORPORATE SEAL)
   Attest:
   __________________________________
   Party of the First Part
   _______________________________(SEAL)
   Party of the Second Part
 
      (6)   For all households and businesses and other water users taking
water from the water works system, the city shall provide the service pipe,
tap, and shutoff at the curb stop without charge to the user and shall maintain
same. Otherwise, the user shall keep all other service pipes, stopcocks,
fixtures, and apparatus in good repair and protected from frost at his or her
own cost and expense. All other expenses relating to the introduction of water
into buildings or private premises shall be paid by the applicant, including a
charge for tapping of the main, the amount of such charge to be fixed by the
Council, and, generally, to be uniform for either side of all streets having
the same width where the trenching is in earth, with an additional charge for
rock excavation or the removal of pavement. A surcharge of $1 per month shall
be added to each water user’s water bill.
      (7)   Every person taking water shall permit the Public Works Director or
his or her duly authorized agents, at all reasonable hours, to enter his, her,
or their premises or buildings for the purpose of examining the pipes and
fixtures and the manner in which the water is used, and he, she, or they must,
at all times, answer all proper questions put to him, her, or them, relative to
the use of such pipes and fixtures and the water supplied thereby.
      (8)   (a)   The right is hereby reserved by the city to cut off the
supply of water, at any time, for the purpose of repairs or any other necessary
purpose, any permit granted, or regulation to the contrary; provided, however,
whenever it shall become necessary to shut off the water supply within any
district of the city, the Public Works Director shall, if practicable, give
notice to each and every consumer within said district of the time when such
supply will be shut off.
         (b)   It is expressly stipulated by the said city that no claim shall
be made against it by reason of the breaking or freezing of any service pipe or
service cock nor for any failure of the water supply from any cause nor from
damage arising from the shutting off of water to repair mains or to make
connections or extensions or for any other purpose that may be deemed
necessary.
      (9)   (a)   No service connection shall be made to any two or more
distinct premises unless separate curb stops are put in for each of said
premises. All pipes must enter the front of buildings near the sidewalk, where
practicable.
         (b)   All house boilers shall be provided with an air valve at the top
of the boiler and be sufficiently strong to bear the pressure of the atmosphere
when under a vacuum. All stopcocks and other appurtenances must be sufficiently
strong to bear the pressure and ram of the water in the mains.
      (10)   All service pipes and fixtures connected therewith shall be
subject to approval of the Public Works Director, and the right is reserved to
refuse a permit to connect with plumbing which has not been done in accordance
with the existing rules and regulations relating thereto.
      (11)   No consumer shall supply water to other families nor suffer them
to take it off his or her premises nor, after water is introduced into any
building or upon any premises, shall any person make or employ any plumber or
other person to make any tap or connection with the pipes upon the premises for
alterations, extensions, or attachments without filing an application and
receiving a permit therefor.
      (12)   All persons using water shall keep the hydrant, tap, hose, water
closet, urinals, bath, or other fixtures allotted to their use closed, except
when obtaining water for use, and shall be responsible for any damage or injury
that may result to others from the improper use of said water.
      (13)   Service pipes from the mains to the street line shall be of extra
strong lead or K copper. Every service pipe must be laid at least four and one
half feet deep and in such manner as to prevent rupture by settling.
      (14)   All service pipes must be at least one-eighth inch larger in
diameter than the taps through which they are supplied and must be laid the
same depth below the surface of the ground as the main pipe in the street, and
in all cases, they must be so protected as to prevent freezing.
      (15)   Every service pipe must be provided with a stop or corporation
cock at the street mains and with a stop or waste cock, to be known as the curb
cock, for each consumer. Unless otherwise directed, the curb stop shall be
placed in the service pipe at the edge of the sidewalk and shall be protected
by a service box reaching from the stopcock to the surface and of suitable size
to admit a stop-key for turning the water on and off. Such service box shall
have a cover with the letter “W” or the word “Water” thereon, the top of the
cover to be visible and even with the surface of the sidewalk. All curb stops
must have round waterways of the same diameter as the pipes to which they are
connected.
      (16)   No hydrants, except the public drinking fountains, shall be placed
within the limits of any street unless such hydrants are securely closed and
protected against general use; no drinking fountain shall be erected for public
use which has openings by which it can be used as a source of domestic supply.
      (17)   In all cases where meters are installed, the meters may be owned
by the consumer or rented from the city at a monthly rental, as hereinafter
specified. No restriction will be placed upon the use of water taken through a
meter as to purpose, manner, or quantity, except that wanton waste will be
strictly prohibited.
      (18)   All meters shall be furnished by the city, must be approved by the
Committee on Public Sewers and Water Works, and must be set and be, at all
times, under its supervision or the supervision of its authorized agents. Such
meters must be so set that they can be easily examined and read and be
protected with suitable protection, making them safe from frost or other
damage.
      (19)   In case of neglect or refusal to set or protect a meter as herein
required, the water shall not be turned on, or if water has been turned on, it
shall be turned off and remain off until the owner shall have complied with
said requirements. No meter shall be set on any premises without a written
application or order from the owner of the premises or his or her agent;
provided, however, the Committee on Public Sewers and Water Works shall have
the right to apply a meter to any service pipe when they deem it advisable.
      (20)   The size of all meters is to be designated by the Committee on
Public Sewers and Water Works.
      (21)   All the expense of attaching meters or protecting them from frost
or other damages shall be paid by the owner of the premises, and any meter
found, at any time, to be frozen, damaged, or registering incorrectly must be
repaired or replaced, upon the order of the Committee on Public Sewers and
Water Works at the expense of the owner, and no meter shall be repaired or
removed except upon such order or upon permission granted by said Committee.
      (22)   Any consumer renting a meter and wishing, at any time, to purchase
the same from the city will be allowed on the cost thereof, upon such purchase,
50% of the amount of monthly rentals already so paid by him or her for such
meter.
      (23)   Any consumer wishing, at any time, to purchase from the city a
meter which has been used by some other consumer shall pay for the same a price
to be fixed by the Committee on Public Sewers and Water Works.
      (24)   All rates and rents must be promptly paid when due.
      (25)   Rates and rents for building purposes will be furnished by the
Committee on Public Sewers and Water Works, on request. When water is measured
by meter, the estimate amount shall be paid quarterly, subject to the meter
measurement, the amount of water used determining the price for each quarter.
      (26)   If the rates or rents are not paid within ten days after the same
become payable, the Committee on Public Sewers and Water Works may, in such
cases, order the water shut off forthwith.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 14)
(Ord. 15 (Series 2008-2009), passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 COMMITTEE AND PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Committee to supervise. The Committee on Public Sewers and Water Works
shall have a general supervision of the maintenance and operation of the sewer
and water works system of the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 1)
   (B)   Superintendent. The Committee on Public Sewers and Water Works shall
have one assistant to be known as the Public Works Director, whose appointment,
term, and salary shall be fixed by the Council.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 2)
§ 50.18 RECORDS OF CHANGE.
   A record shall be kept of all matters in connection with the maintenance and
operation of the sewer and water works system of said city and of the amounts
chargeable to each water taker for the use of water, and the Public Works
Director shall, at the request of the Council, file a report with the Council
at the end of each fiscal year showing the cost and extent of permanent
improvements, an inventory of the plant and of the tools and materials
belonging thereto, the number of sewer and water takers, and such other things
as may be deemed advisable.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 3)
§ 50.19 DESTRUCTION OF SYSTEM.
   No person shall willfully or carelessly break, injure, mar, deface,
interfere with, or disturb any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture,
attachment or appurtenance of the sewer and water works of said city nor any
public or private hydrant or stopcock, meter, water supply or service pipe, or
any part thereof nor shall any person deposit anything in any stopcock box or
commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of the
above-mentioned property without the permission of the Committee on Public
Sewers and Water Works or Public Works Director except as here provided or as
otherwise provided by ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 4) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20 EXCAVATIONS; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Excavation. In making excavations in streets or highways for laying
service pipes or making repairs, the planks, paving stones, and earth removed
must be deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to the
public and provide for the passage of water along gutters.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 9)
   (B)   Open excavation. No person shall leave any such excavation made in any
street or highway open at any time without barricades and, during the night
warning lights, must be maintained at such excavations.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 10)
   (C)   Closing excavations. In refilling the opening, after service pipes are
laid, the earth must be laid in layers of not more than nine inches in depth
and each layer thoroughly rammed or puddled to prevent settling. This work
together with the replacing of sidewalks, ballast, and paving must be done so
as to make the street as good at least as before it was disturbed and
satisfactory to the Committee on Public Sewers and Water Works.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 11)
   (D)   Six-inch water mains required in all new construction. All new
construction of water mains within the city, from and after May 10, 1974,
shall, when reasonably practical, be constructed of at least six-inch mains.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 19)
(Ord. 1 (Series 1973-1974), passed - -; Ord. 1 (Series 1974-1975), passed - -
) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 METERS ARE CITY PROPERTY.
   The water meter charge is an installation and usage charge, and ownership
with the water meter shall remain in the city, and the water meters shall
remain city property. The city shall repair and replace, at the city’s expense,
meter defects occurring at any time hereafter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 16) (Ord. 112 (Series 1965-1966), passed
- -)
§ 50.22 SECURITY DEPOSITS FOR SEWER AND WATER FEES.
   (A)   All new water connections, whether for new housing or reconnection
after shut off or otherwise, shall pay, together with all other fees provided
herein, a $100 security deposit to secure payment of the monthly water and
sewer charges. NEW WATER CONNECTIONS are defined to mean those for persons who
have not been prior water and/or sewer customers for at least 18 months or who
presently have less than 18 months on their existing security deposit. If a
water and/or sewer bill is not timely paid, the bill shall be charged against
the customer’s security deposit and standard shutoff procedures initiated. Any
balance of the security deposit remaining after shutoff shall be refunded to
the customer. After 18 months with prompt payment of bill, the entire security
deposit shall be refunded.
   (B)   Whenever any water user has made a security deposit pursuant hereto
and has paid water and sewer services in effect for 12 months and all bills for
said bills have been timely paid, the $50 security deposit shall be refunded.
   (C)   Any user who meets the requirements of division (B) above shall not be
required to make any security deposits for any new connection or other service,
either business or residence, thereafter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 17) (Ord. 17 (Series 1981-1982), passed -
-; Ord. 14 (Series 1984-1985), passed - -; Ord. 4 (Series 1995-1996), passed 7-
3-1995)
§ 50.23 ENFORCEMENT OF WATER AND SEWER BILLS.
   (A)   Enforcement of water and sewer bills.
      (1)   All unpaid water and sewer bills accruing at any time after the
effective date of the ordinance adopted in this section shall be considered
delinquent 30 days after bills for same have been forwarded by ordinary mail to
the address of the users shown on the records of the City Clerk. All such
delinquent water and sewer bills shall be forwarded a second notice upon them
becoming delinquent, said second notice to be forwarded by ordinary mail to the
address of the users shown on the records of the City Clerk. In addition to any
other language the City Clerk deems appropriate, the second notice shall
contain the following language:
“Failure to pay this bill within seven days from the ____ day of_____, 20___
will result in your water service being shut off, and in the event you desire a
reconnection, reconnection fees of $25.00 will be charged before reconnection
is made.”
      (2)   At the time of giving the water or sewer user his or her second
notice, as aforesaid, notifying that the water will be shut off within seven
days if the bill is not paid, the City Clerk shall also give notice to the
Public Works Director who shall, upon the eighth day, make a final check with
the City Clerk to determine whether, in fact, the water bill has been paid, and
if it has not been paid, he or she shall then, upon the eighth day, as
aforesaid, disconnect the water of the water user. Such water shall not be
reconnected until the delinquent bill and the reconnection fee has been paid.
      (3)   The City Clerk is hereby empowered to file a notice of lien with
the County Recorder of Deeds in the form of Exhibit “A” attached to the
ordinance adopted herein, 30 days after any water or sewer bill becomes
delinquent, and the recording fees for any such recording shall be added to the
water and sewer bill of the user.
      (4)   Upon recording a notice of lien against any premises as a
consequence of delinquent water or sewer bills, the City Clerk shall forward a
copy of said notice of lien to the applicant shown in his or her records and
files and the owner, if the applicant is not an owner, or, in the event the
premises have no application file, to the person listed in the records of the
City Clerk on the water and sewer bill for said premises.
      (5)   Upon payment of any delinquent charges for water and sewer service
for which a statutory lien has been filed with the County Recorder, the City
Clerk shall collect an additional fee in the amount of the recording charge for
a release of lien and, thereupon, immediately forward to the County Recorder a
release of lien for recording in the form attached as Exhibit “B”to the
ordinance adopted herein.
      (6)   Upon connection or re-connection of any water service to the water
system of the city, the applicant for said connection shall file with the City
Clerk, on forms provided by the City Clerk, an application for connection or
re-connection of water service.
      (7)   The aforesaid application for connection or re-connection of water
service shall be in form promulgated by the City Clerk and shall contain the
name, address, and telephone number of the applicant; the legal description of
the premises to be connected; the name, address, and telephone number of the
owner of the premises to be connected; the street address of the premises to be
connected; and the acknowledgment by the applicant and owner of the premises
that the applicant and owner understand that unpaid water bills and unpaid
sewer bills become a lien on the premises in the application when delinquent
and such other information as the City Clerk may deem appropriate to include in
said application.
      (8)   When the applicant for connection or reconnection of water service,
as aforesaid, is not the owner of said premises to be served, then, in such
event, the application must be signed by both the applicant and the owner of
the premises.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 20)
   (B)   Checks with insufficient funds. There will be a charge of $10 for any
sufficient fund check presented to pay any water or sewer bill.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 21)
(Ord. 4 (Series 1978-1979), passed - -; Ord. 10 (Series 1986-1987), passed 2-2-
1987)
§ 50.24 CONTRACTS WITH WATER USERS.
   The rules, regulations, and water rates hereinafter named shall be
considered a part of the contract with every person, company, or corporation
who is supplied with water through the water works system of the city and every
such person, company, or corporation, by taking water, shall be considered to
express his, her, or their assent to be bound thereby, and whenever any of the
rules or regulations herein provided or such others as the Council may adopt
are violated, the water shall be cut off from the building or place of such
violation and shall not be turned on again except by order of the Committee on
Public Sewers and Water Works nor until the expense of shutting the water off
and turning it on has been paid, which expense is hereby fixed at the sum of
$1, and such other terms as the Committee on Public Sewers and Water Works may
determine have been complied with and a satisfactory understanding with the
party has been had that no further cause for complaint shall arise; in case of
such violation, the Committee on Public Sewers and Water Works shall have the
right to declare any payment made for the water by the person committing such
violation forfeited.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 13)
§ 50.25 RECONNECTION FEES.
   Whenever any water service is shut off for non-payment of the bill, there
shall be a re-connection charge of $25 between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00
p.m., except on city holidays or weekends. At all other times, the re-
connection fee shall be the sum of $50. Water service shall not be resumed
after shut off for non-payment of a bill until the re-connection charge of $25
is paid and a new security deposit of $50 is deposited with the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 18)
PLUMBING
§ 50.40 REQUIREMENTS.
   The construction, maintenance, and repair of plumbing, drainage, and
ventilation of all buildings in the city shall conform to and comply with the
requirements specified herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 8, § 1) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.41 TAPPING SEWERS.
   No person shall tap any public sewer at any other place than at the regular
junction built into the sewer for that purpose without written authority from
the Committee on Public Sewers and Water Works of said city nor shall any
person make any connection with the public sewer of the city except in the
presence of said Committee or some person duly authorized by it for that
purpose. All plumbing work shall be under supervision of a Master Plumber.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 8, § 2) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.42 DRAIN GRADES.
   All house drains and sewer connections must have a fall from base of stack
to the street of not less than one foot in 100 feet and be laid to a true and
uniform grade.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 8, § 3) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.43 PIPE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pipe requirements. In all cases, the drain pipe herein alluded to,
extending from the street to the building or, if not taken to the building,
then to any other place where it is intended to drain, must consist of sound-
vitrified sewer pipe of not less than four inches in diameter and be subject to
the approval of the Committee on Public Sewers and Water Works.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 8, § 4)
   (B)   Inside of pipe.
      (1)   The inside of every drain pipe laid must be left smooth and clean
from cement or dirt throughout the entire length, and a wad or sack filled with
material so as to completely fill the pipe shall be pulled through each pipe
after it has been laid to remove all loose cement.
      (2)   All openings from downspouts must terminate in socket ends, and all
downspouts must run to an intercepting trap before entering the sewer, the said
trap to be accessible at all times for cleaning purposes. All downspouts under
the ground or inside the building shall consist of standard cast iron soil
pipe.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 8, § 5)
   (C)   Vent pipes - material. All soil, waste, or vent pipes shall be of cast
iron or galvanized wrought iron, lead, or brass; no brick, earthenware, or
sheet metal shall be used in any part of the plumbing or drainage system or for
ventilation pipes within any building, and no chimney flues shall be used for
ventilating on any new work or alteration. All cast iron pipes shall be of
uniform thickness, free from holes, or any defects and shall be no lighter than
what is known as extra heavy weight pipe. Where wrought iron pipes are used for
waste or drainage, they shall be installed by what is known to the trade as the
“Durham System.”
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 8, § 6)
   (D)   Vent pipes for bathrooms.
      (1)   The main waste and vent pipe for a closet or for bathroom fixtures
shall be no less than four-inch cast iron soil pipe; for two fixtures,
excepting a closet or bath, a two-inch vent pipe may be used. All vent pipes
shall be carried through the roof and shall be no less than four inches in
diameter at the roof.
      (2)   All fixtures are to be continuous waste and vent, using “P” traps
on all fixtures, wherever possible. Each sink shall have no less than a one and
one-half-inch pipe. Each lavatory shall have no less than one and one quarter-
inch pipe. Each and every trap shall be vented with a vent pipe the same size
as the trap, excepting drain traps, centrifugal traps, and trapped cellar
drains and floor drains, and all traps shall be placed within two feet of the
fixtures, all vent pipes from traps to be of galvanized wrought iron pipe,
lead, brass, or cast iron soil pipe.
      (3)   Bathtubs shall have not less than four-inch by eight-inch drum trap
with a four-inch cover, resting on top of floor. All hotels, restaurants,
boarding houses, meat markets, and the like are to be provided with grease
traps.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 8, § 8) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.44 FITTINGS.
   (A)   All fittings used in connection with the cast iron pipes shall be of
corresponding weight and quality, and changes in direction of waste shall be
made by “Y” or one “Y” branch, one-sixteenth, one-eighth, or one-sixth bends
wherever possible; where closets connect to a vertical line of waste pipe, a
sanitary “T” must be used.
   (B)   Bands, saddles, or sleeves are prohibited on all waste or soil pipes,
and cement joints are prohibited on any waste, vent, or drainage pipe inside
the building. The cast iron waste pipes shall be carried at least three feet
outside of the building. House traps are prohibited, and cellar and floor
drains must be separately trapped.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 8, § 7) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.45 CLEANOUTS.
   (A)   Where the direction of soil pipes or waste pipes are changed at the
ends of each horizontal line and at each conjunction and at the foot of every
stack, cleanouts shall be placed; all cleanouts must be of the same diameter as
the pipe into which they are inserted and be of heavy iron with brass screw
plug.
   (B)   Overflow pipes from tanks and wastes from refrigerators or other
receptacles in which provisions are stored shall be properly trapped and shall
be discharged into an open water supply fixture. No privy, vault, or cesspool
shall hereafter be constructed within the fire limits of the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 8, § 9) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.46 PRIVY, VAULT, OR CESSPOOLS.
   (A)   No privy, vault, or cesspool shall hereafter be connected with any
sewer. No person shall place in any building a plunger or pan closet, and where
such closets are removed for repair, they shall not be replaced. Where a water
closet in any building is five feet or more from the main soil pipe stack, it
shall be vented back into the stack above the highest fixture by means of two-
inch galvanized lead or iron pipe or soil pipe or shall be run through the roof
separately.
   (B)   No double hubs or double fittings shall be allowed below the waste
line of any fixture. No cistern overflow is to be connected direct to sewer.
Any defective work must be changed to conform with the requirements of this
section and, if on due notice from said Committee on Public Sewers and Water
Works, such changes are not made within 30 days, said city shall proceed to
make said changes and shall recover the cost thereof from the delinquent
plumber or his or her bondsperson. All plumbers shall be held responsible for
all acts of their agents or employees.
   (C)   When all roughing in for bathtubs or water closets has been completed,
all inlets and outlets shall be tightly sealed; then, all soil and vent pipes
shall be filled with water from the cellar floor level or base of the stack to
a point five feet above the highest fixture and all joints and piping made
watertight.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 8, § 10) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.47 DRAINS CONNECTED TO SEWER SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   No foundation drain, surface water drain, roof drain, downspout, or roof
drainpipe shall be connected to or direct water into the sewerage system
operated by the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 8, § 11) (Ord. 6 (Series 1971-1972), passed -
-; Ord. 13 (Series 1981-1982), passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.48 DISCONNECTION OF WATER LINE.
   Whenever any plumber or any person disconnects or terminates use of any
water line, said water line shall be disconnected and plugged at the water main
rather than at the point of disconnection or termination.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 8, § 12) (Ord. 19 (Series 1979-1980), passed -
-) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §
50.01(A) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §
50.01(B) shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $500 for each offense
and separate offense shall deem to be committed each and every day during which
a violation continues or exists.
   (C)   Persons convicted of violating §
50.02 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each and every
day said condition exists.
   (D)   All violations or failures to observe any of the provisions of §§
50.15 through
50.25, and
50.40 through
50.48 and all costs of leakage, waste, or unnecessary profusion in the use of
water shall be reported by the Chief of Police or by the other city officials
having knowledge thereof, to the Council, and any violation of aforesaid shall
be deemed to be a misdemeanor and punishable as in the case of misdemeanors.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 1, § 12)
   (E)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return or who makes a fraudulent
return or who willfully violates any other provision of §
50.03 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $200 and, in addition, shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
   (F)   Any violation of §
50.47 shall be punished as a misdemeanor under §
130.99(B).
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 8, § 11)
   (G)   Violation of §
50.48 shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than $1 nor more
than $ 1.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 8, § 12)
(Ord. 6 (Series 1994-1995), passed 8-15-1994; Ord. 8 (Series 1996-1997), passed
9-16-1996; Ord. 15 (Series 2000-2001), passed 4-2-2001)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Compliance
   
51.03   Shut off due to leaks
   
51.04   Resale of water
   
51.05   Tampering with system
   
51.06   Use of groundwater as water supply
Connection and Installation
   
51.20   Connection permits
   
51.21   Application for water service
   
51.22   Installations
   
51.23   Repairs to system
   
51.24   Cross-connections
   
51.25   Water service pipe
   
51.26   Excavations for connections
   
51.27   Shutoff boxes
   
51.28   Water service to multiple premises
Administration
   
51.40   Meters required; reading and testing
   
51.41   Liability
   
51.42   Inspection; authority
   
51.43   Access to records
   
51.44   Appeals
Service Charges and Billing
   
51.55   Meters required; fees
   
51.56   Basic service charge
   
51.57   Charges to be reviewed
   
51.58   Measurement of flow for computation
   
51.59   Bills
   
51.60   Delinquency
   
51.61   Foreclosure of liens
   
51.62   Revenues and accounts
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Public Works Director of the City of Hamilton.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
water system.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE. A charge levied on users to improve, extend, or
reconstruct the water works.
   CITY. The City of Hamilton, Illinois.
   CURB COCK. A shutoff valve attached to a water service pipe from a water
main to a building installed near the curb, which may be operated by a valve
key to start or stop flow in the water-supply lines of a building. Also called
CURB STOP.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal, and coverage of loan, bond, and the like outstanding.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal 1996 Safe Drinking Water Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§
300f et seq. and amendments.
   LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE. Charges for costs, other than the operation,
maintenance, and replacement costs such as debt service and capital improvement
costs.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water constituent. It
is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has replaced the unit
formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is approximately
equivalent, in reporting the results of water analysis.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   PPM. Parts per million by weight.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
REPLACEMENT.
   SERVICE BOX. A valve box used with corporation or curb cock.
   SHALL or MAY. SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissible.
   STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970, being 30 ILCS 405/
1 et seq.
   STATE LOAN. The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of water works, as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act, being 30 ILCS 405/1 et seq., and for making such loans as filed with
the Secretary of State of the State of Illinois.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the water works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of water works for the cost of
operation, maintenance, and replacement.
   WATER FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues received
in the operation of the water system.
   WATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter or month levied on all users of
the water facilities. The SERVICE CHARGE shall be computed as outlined in §
51.56 and shall consist of the total of the basic user charge and the local
capital cost, if applicable.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005)
§ 51.02 COMPLIANCE.
   No water shall be turned on for service in any premises in which the
plumbing does not comply with the ordinances of the city, provided that water
may be turned on for construction work in unfinished buildings, subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 SHUT OFF DUE TO LEAKS.
   (A)   It shall be each water user’s responsibility to maintain the user’s
own service lines, service pipes, corporations, stop and waste cocks, shutoff
connections, and all other parts of the water user’s system on the water user’s
property and from the water user’s connection at the water main to the water
user’s property in operating condition, free of leaks, at the user’s expense.
   (B)   Whenever any leak, inoperable curb stop, broken shutoff, or other
failure of the system or inoperable condition occurs on the property of the
water user or at any location from the connection at the main to the water
user’s property, the water user shall promptly repair the leak or condition. If
not promptly repaired by the water user, then the Public Works Director may
take the following actions.
      (1)   He or she may give five days’ notice, in writing, to the water user
or the user’s agent or occupant to repair the leak or condition. In the event
notice is given and the leak or condition is not repaired by the water user in
five days from sending the notice, the Public Works Director is authorized to
terminate the users water and shut off the user’s water service to that
location.
      (2)   If the leak or condition is causing an immediate nuisance or
hazard, the Public Works Director, in his or her discretion, may repair the
leak or condition immediately and charge the cost thereof to the water user. If
the water user fails to pay the cost within 30 days from the time the bill is
sent, then the Public Works Director is authorized to terminate the users water
service and shut off the user’s water service.
   (C)   Charges for material used shall be at city cost and, for labor, shall
be at the worker’s hourly rate, as established by the Public Works Director.
(Ord. 9 (Series 2002-2003), passed 10-21-2002)
§ 51.04 RESALE OF WATER.
   No water supplied by the water works system of the city shall be resold by
any user, except by the City of Carthage, the mobile home park, and the Village
of Elvaston or any other city, village, or unit of government hereafter
authorized by the city. No water user may supply water to other families or
allow them to take it except for use on the premises and for the purpose
specified in such user’s approved application, not after water is introduced
into any building or upon any premises shall any person make or employ any
other person to make any tap or connection with work upon the premises for
alterations, repairs, extensions, or attachments without written permit
therefor. Resale or unauthorized use of water shall be grounds for
discontinuance of water service to the user or the premises or both.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the city, City
Council, or the Public Works Director to tamper with, alter, or injure any part
of the city water works or supply system or any meter.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 USE OF GROUNDWATER AS WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Use of groundwater as a potable water supply prohibited. The use or
attempted use of groundwater as a potable water supply from within the area
shown on Exhibit A attached to the ordinance adopted herein, by the
installation of wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited. This
prohibition extends west into the rights-of-way of State Route 136, north into
the right-of-way of Main Street, east into the right-of-way of 2nd Street and
includes Parcel 11-30-951-00, 11-30952-000, 11-30-937-002, and 11-30-937-006.
This prohibition expressly applies to the city.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity or their legal
representatives, agents, or assignees.
      POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption
including, but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes, or preparing foods.
(Ord. 5 (Series 2021-2022), passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
51.99
CONNECTION AND INSTALLATION
§ 51.20 CONNECTION PERMITS.
   (A)   No connections with the water works system shall be made without a
permit issued by the Public Works Director of the city. All such connections
shall be made by the City Water and Sewer Department forces under the
supervision of the Public Works Director, and no connections shall be covered
until the work has been inspected to the satisfaction of the Public Works
Director. Whenever any premises shall hereafter be connected with the water
works system, a charge shall be made.
   (B)   The owner, occupant, or party or parties in possession of any house,
structure, factory, industrial or commercial establishment, or any other
building or structure of any other character which uses water and is located on
property within the corporate limits shall cause such house, structure,
factory, industrial or commercial establishment, or any other building or
structure of any other character to be connected with the water works system
within 90 days from the date that water facilities become available to such
property.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE.
   No water from the water works system shall be turned on for service into any
premises by any person but the Public Works Director. Application to have water
turned on shall be made, in writing, to the City Clerk and shall contain an
agreement by the applicant to abide by and accept all of the provisions of this
chapter as conditions governing the use and service of the water works system
by the applicant.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 INSTALLATIONS.
   If such water service must cross a city or state road or alley that requires
boring and casing, the cost of such boring and/or casing shall be borne by the
applicant for the service or the owner of the property being served. All
expenses for more than 200 feet shall be at the cost of and installed by the
owner of the property to be served or the applicant for the service. All such
water services shall have a curb cock on the terrace with a stop box flush with
the ground.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005)
§ 51.23 REPAIRS TO SYSTEM.
   All repairs for service pipes and laterals from the water works system
(water mains) to the stop box shall be made by and at the expense of the
customer. From the stop box to the property being served, all repairs and
excavations shall be by and at the expense of the property owner.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005)
§ 51.24 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   If, in accordance with the State Plumbing Code, being 77 Ill. Adm.
Code § 890 or in the judgment of the Public Works Director, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
supply system, the Public Works Director will give notice to the water customer
to install such an approved device immediately. The water customer shall, at
his or her own expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a
manner in accordance with the State Plumbing Code and all applicable local
regulations and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved devices
as required by the State Plumbing Code and local regulations.
   (B)   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or
permit to be maintained any connection whereby private, auxiliary, or emergency
water supply other than the regular public water supply of the city enters the
supply or distribution system of the city unless such private, auxiliary, or
emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the Public Works Director and the State
Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Public Works Director to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two years or as
often as the Public Works Director shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five years.
   (D)   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter, at any reasonable time, any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system for the purpose of verifying the
presence or absence of cross-connections, and the purpose of verifying the
presence or absence of cross-connections, and the Public Works Director or his
or her authorized agent shall have the right to enter, at any reasonable time,
any property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer
regarding the required cross-connection control inspection. On demand, the
owner, lessees, or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
Public Works Director any information which he or she may request regarding the
piping system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information, when demanded, shall, with the discretion of the Public Works
Director, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as
provided in this section.
   (E)   The Public Works Director of the city is hereby authorized and
directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the
water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this section is known to exist and to take such other
precautionary measures as he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service
to such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been
eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this section and
until a reconnection fee is paid to the City Clerk. Immediate disconnection,
with verbal notice, can be effected when the Public Works Director is assured
that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply system
exists. Such action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of
disconnection.
   (F)   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained, or
repaired device or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.25 WATER SERVICE PIPE.
   (A)   All water services used or laid on city property shall be of K-copper
construction.
   (B)   At no time will plastic or galvanized pipe be used, regardless of who
is laying said pipe.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26 EXCAVATIONS FOR CONNECTIONS.
   Excavations for installing service pipes and laterals or repairing the same
shall be made in compliance with the provisions relating to making excavations
in streets; provided, it shall be unlawful to place any service pipe in the
same excavation with or directly over any drainpipe or sewer lateral.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.27 SHUTOFF BOXES.
   Shutoff boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every service pipe and
shall be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line, where this is
practicable. Such boxes shall be so located that they are easily accessible and
shall be protected from frost.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005)
§ 51.28 WATER SERVICE TO MULTIPLE PREMISES.
   No owner or plumber shall be permitted to connect water pipes into any two
distinct premises or tenements unless separate and distinct stopcocks shall be
placed on the outside of each such premises along the sidewalk opposite the
same nor shall any pipe be allowed to cross lots or buildings to adjoining
premises. Duplex flats, double houses, and apartment houses shall be considered
as one PREMISES. A PREMISES shall be construed to cover all buildings and
divisions under one common roof owned by one party, who will be charged for all
services to such premises.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.40 METERS REQUIRED; READING AND TESTING.
   (A)   Installation. Meters shall be installed in a location that will
provide easy access thereto.
   (B)   Reading meters. The City Water and Sewer Billing Clerk shall read or
cause to be read every water meter used in the city at such times as are
necessary so that the bills may be sent out at the proper times.
   (C)   Testing meters. Upon request or complaint of the consumer, any water
meter shall be tested for accuracy. If, upon testing, the meter is found to be
over 3% off in accuracy, the meter shall be replaced at no cost to the
consumer. If the meter is found to be 3% or less in accuracy, then the consumer
shall pay a testing fee of $25.
   (D)   Required for new construction. Any house or building constructed
within the city or constructed outside of the city and using water must have
installed a meter that will service each individual user located upon any new
constructed property.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005)
§ 51.41 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Service failures. All water works service supplied by the water works
system shall be upon the express condition that the city shall not be liable
nor shall any claim be made against it for damages or injury caused by reason
of the breaking of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus, or
appurtenances connected with said system or any part or portion thereof or for
any interruption of the supply by reason of the breakage of machinery or by
reason of stoppage, alterations, extensions, or renewals.
   (B)   Service interruption. The city reserves the right to shut off water at
any time in the mains for the purpose of repairing, cleaning, making
connections with or extensions to same, or for the concentration of water in
any pail of the city in case of fire and for restricting the use of water in
case of deficiency in supply including the suspension of the use of water for
sprinkling lawns or gardens. No claim shall be made against the city by reason
of the breaking of any service pipe or service cock or damage arising from
shutting off of water for repairing, laying, or relaying mains, hydrants, or
other connections or repairing any part of the water system or from failure of
the water supply or by increasing the water pressure at any time or from
concentrated or restricted use of water as above described.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005)
§ 51.42 INSPECTION; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Right of access; use inspection. The city and its employees and the
State Environmental Protection Agency shall have ready access, at all
reasonable times, to the premises, places, or buildings where water service is
supplied for the purpose of inspecting, examining, and testing the consumption,
use, and flow of water, and it shall be unlawful for any person to interfere
with, prevent, or obstruct the city, the Public Works Director, or a duly
authorized agent or the State Environmental Protection Agency in his or her
duties in division (B) below. Every user of the system shall take the same upon
the conditions prescribed in this chapter.
   (B)   Powers and authority of inspectors.
      (1)   The Public Works Director and other duly authorized employees of
the Public Works Director and the State Environmental Protection Agency,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The Public Works
Director or his or her representative shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste
treatment.
      (2)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in division (B)(1) above, the Public Works Director or duly authorized
employees of the city and the State Environmental Protection Agency shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company,
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the employees,
and the city shall indemnify the company against liability claims and demands
for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing
out of the gauging and sampling operating, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain conditions as required in
Article IV, § 9.
      (3)   The Public Works Director and other duly authorized employees of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the water
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.43 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The IEPA or its authorized representative shall have access to any books,
documents, papers, and records of the city which are applicable to the city
system of user charges for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts,
and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of either the
special and general conditions to any state grant or the loan agreement and
rules or any state loan.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005)
§ 51.44 APPEALS.
   The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in §
51.56 shall be made available to a user within seven days of receipt of a
written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or in the
computations thereof shall be remedied by the Water and Sewer Committee of the
city within 14 days after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the
discrepancies.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005)
SERVICE CHARGES AND BILLING
§ 51.55 METERS REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   All premises using the city water supply must be equipped with an
adequate gallon-measuring water meter. All meters placed in service on any
premises using the city water supply will be provided and owned by the Water
Department which retains the right to inspect, repair, and replace them upon
reasonable notice to the owner of the premises.
   (B)   When a meter owned by the city is placed in service, other than as a
replacement for a meter owned by the city already in use, the property owner or
other person receiving such service shall make a deposit as herein specified.
When a meter owned by the city is placed in service as a replacement for a
privately owned meter, the property owner or other person receiving such
service will make a deposit, as herein provided, unless the privately owned
meter is received in exchange by the Water Department.
   (C)   The following deposits are hereby established based on the connection
diameter.
      (1)   There is hereby established a customer deposit of $100 which must
be paid prior to the connection of any water service for any customer. The
deposit is refunded after 18 months if the customer is current.
      (2)   The connection fees for water and sewer shall be as follows:
         (a)   Initial meter charge: $100 plus additional costs the city may
incur;
         (b)   Sewer permit: $75;
         (c)   Water permit: $50;
         (d)   Water tapping fee for up to three-quarter-inch lines: $50;
         (e)   Water tapping fee for lines greater than three-fourths inches,
up to and including one inch: $75; and
         (f)   Water tapping fee for lines greater than one inch: $75 plus
other additional cost city may occur.
      (3)   Meter placement will be as follows: anything under 100 feet will be
put in basements and anything over 100 feet will be put in a meter vault at
owner’s expense.
   (D)   If a backflow preventer is required by the state, it will be installed
at contractor’s expense.
   (E)   All of said fees shall be paid with the application for a building
permit at the time it is filed with the city. With respect to existing
structures, said fee shall be paid prior to the time the connection is made and
prior to the time the service is made available.
   (F)   The money received from these deposits and all other deposits received
by the Water Department shall be placed in a revolving fund for the purchase
and maintenance of water meters.
   (G)   Refund of the water meter deposit shall be made to the owners of the
premises only if said premises are destroyed or no longer needed and the city-
owned meter is returned in good condition.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005; Ord. 3 (Series 2005-2006), passed
9-19-2005)
§ 51.56 BASIC SERVICE CHARGE.
   The water service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
water facilities of the city are hereby established as follows:
 
Location                                Base Rate
City of Carthage and the Village of     $3.86 per 1,000 gallons
Elvaston
Outside the city limits, other than the $29.51 for the first 2,500 gallons plus
City of Carthage or the Village of      $7.26 per 1,000 gallons in excess of
Elvaston                                2,500 gallons plus the $1 surcharge
                                        $19.67 for the first 2,500 gallons plus
Within the city limits                  $4.84 per 1,000 gallons in excess of
                                        2,500 gallons plus the $1 surcharge
 
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005; Ord. 7 (Series 2009-2010), passed
7-20-2009)
§ 51.57 CHARGES TO BE REVIEWED.
   The adequacy of the water service charge shall be reviewed, not less often
than annually, by certified public accountants for the city in their annual
audit report. The water service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect
a change in local capital costs or operation, maintenance, and replacement
costs.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005)
§ 51.58 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW FOR COMPUTATION.
   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges shall be the
metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of gallons.
   (A)   If the person procures all or any part of his or her water from
sources other than the city public water works system, the person shall install
and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type approved by the
Public Works Director for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
   (B)   Devices for measuring the volume of water may be required by the
Public Works Director if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered water consumption records.
   (C)   Metering devices for determining the volume shall be installed, owned,
and maintained by the person. Following approval and installation, such meters
may not be removed, unless service is canceled, without the consent of the
Public Works Director.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005)
§ 51.59 BILLS.
   (A)   Said rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly or
quarterly, depending on the classification of service for which bills are
rendered. The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof, and the user of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such
premises; and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only upon
the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant, and user of the
services are jointly and severally liable therefor to the city. Bills for
service shall be sent out by the City Water and Sewer Billing Clerk on the
first day of the month or quarter succeeding the period for which the service
is billed.
   (B)   All bills are due and payable 15 days after being sent out. An
addition of $5 shall be added to all bills not paid by the fifteenth day after
they have been rendered. If not paid by the end of the month of issue, there is
a 1.5% fee at the end of the month and monthly thereafter, plus an additional
$5 charge monthly until paid in full.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005)
§ 51.60 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Delinquent bills. If the charges for such services are not paid by the
end of the month billed, such services shall be discontinued without further
notice and shall not be reinstated until all claims are settled.
   (B)   Lien; notice of delinquency.
      (1)   Whenever a bill for service remains unpaid and is delinquent for 30
days, the Water Billing Clerk shall file with the County Recorder of Deeds a
statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of
the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the city
claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges subsequent to the
period covered by the bill.
      (2)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises
and the City Water Billing Clerk has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to
the owner of the premises, if his or her address be known to the Clerk,
whenever such bill remains unpaid for the period 45 days for a monthly bill or
105 days for a quarterly bill after it has been rendered.
      (3)   The failure of the Water Billing Clerk to record such lien or to
mail such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not
affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills, as mentioned herein.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005)
§ 51.61 FORECLOSURE OF LIENS.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for non-payment
of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the charges,
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
Such foreclosure shall be by bill-in equity in the name of the city. The City
Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such proceedings in the
name of the city in any court having jurisdiction over such matters against any
property for which the bill has remained unpaid 45 days, in the case of a
monthly bill, or 105 days, in the case of a quarterly bill, after it has been
rendered.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005)
§ 51.62 REVENUES AND ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Revenues.
      (1)   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the water
system shall be deposited in the water account of the Water Fund. All such
revenues and monies shall be held by the City Treasurer separate and apart from
his or her private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the
City Treasurer not more than ten days after receipt of the same or at such more
frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the Mayor and
Council.
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the water
system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system
as the same may be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in the account
of the fund designated as the Water Fund of the city. Said Treasurer shall
administer such fund, in every respect, in the manner provided by statute of
the Revised Cities and Villages Act of 1942, being 65 ILCS 20/0.01 et seq.
   (B)   Accounts.
      (1)   The City Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the water system, and at
regular annual intervals, he or her shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the water system.
      (2)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the water
facilities, including a replacement cost. The financial information to be shown
in the audit report shall include the following:
         (a)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the water plant for
the current fiscal year;
         (b)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal
year;
         (c)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
         (d)   Number of users connected to the system; and
         (e)   Number of non-metered users.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
51.01,
51.02,
51.04,
51.20 through
51.28,
51.40 through
51.44,
51.55 through
51.58, and
51.60 through 51.63 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (B)(1) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $500 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.01,
51.02,
51.04,
51.20 through
51.28,
51.40 through
51.44,
51.55 through
51.58, and
51.60 through 51.63 shall become liable to the city by reasons of such
violation.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
51.06 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $75 or more than $500 for
each violation.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of §§
51.43,
51.60,
51.62, and 51.63 shall be fined $500 for each offense.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2004-2005), passed 3-21-2005; Ord. 5 (Series 2021-2022), passed
3-7-2022)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Committee powers over sewers
   
52.02   Right of entry
   
52.03   Records; maps of sewer connections
   
52.04   Adoption of Solid Waste Study
Connection and Installation
   
52.15   Sewers adjacent to pipes
   
52.16   House connections
   
52.17   Dedication of sewer lines in public street
   
52.18   Facility specifications
Permits and Fees
   
52.30   Permits
   
52.31   Application for permits
   
52.32   Granting permits
   
52.33   Sewer extension fees
   
52.34   Basic charges
   
52.35   Sewer Improvement Fund
   
52.36   Sewer hookup fees not otherwise established
Regulations for Specific Locations
   
52.50   Church Street between 7th and 9th Streets
   
52.51   20th Street between Keokuk and Laurel
   
52.52   Lynn Street at 17th Street
   
52.53   2nd Street between Main and Elm Streets
   
52.54   Specific waste sewer, storm sewer, and stormwater drainage
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 COMMITTEE POWERS OVER SEWERS.
   (A)   Committee. In this chapter, references to the COMMITTEE means the
Committee on Public Sewers and Water Works.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 5, § 1)
   (B)   Committee powers. The Committee shall have general supervision and
control of all sewers and drains and connections thereto, which have been or
may hereafter be constructed by private parties under authority granted by the
Council, and no connections shall be made with said sewers or drains without a
written permit from them, unless permission to make such connection has been
granted by resolution by the Council of said city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 5, § 2)
§ 52.02 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Committee or its duly authorized assistants shall have the right to
enter upon any premises connected with any public sewer or drain, at all
reasonable hours, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the provisions of
this chapter or any other ordinance in regard to house drains or connections
have been complied with and whether the drain connecting such premises with the
public sewers is in good condition, and if it shall find that said drain or its
appurtenances do not conform to the provisions of law in regard thereto or have
become clogged, obstructed, broken, or out of order, it shall notify the owner,
agent, occupant, or person having charge of the building or premises which are
drained by said drain. It shall, thereupon, be the duty of said owner, agent,
occupant, or person having charge of said building or premises to cause said
drain or its appurtenances to be removed, reconstructed, repaired, altered, or
cleansed as the condition of said drain or appurtenances may require. In case
of the neglect or refusal of said owner, agent, occupant, or other person to
remove, reconstruct, repair, alter, or cleanse said drain or appurtenances for
the space of three days after receiving notice from the Committee, it shall
cause work to be done in such manner as it may deem expedient and shall charge
the expense thereof to the said owner, agent, occupant, or other person
aforesaid.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 5, § 8)
§ 52.03 RECORDS; MAPS OF SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   The City Clerk shall keep a record of all sewer connections and maps showing
location of same and the position of all house drains, connections, junctions,
and other data necessary for the proper supervision of all public sewers and
drains and their connections, said maps and data to be prepared and furnished
by the applicant for sewer connection permit and said records, maps, and data
to be kept on file by the City Clerk, subject to the inspection of the
Committee or any member of the City Council, or any person having an interest
therein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 5, § 9)
§ 52.04 ADOPTION OF SOLID WASTE STUDY.
   (A)   Approval of Solid Waste Plan. The city accepts and gives its approval
to the Solid Waste Plan entitled “The Southeast Iowa/Hancock County, Illinois,
Regional Solid Waste Study (Phase III),” as adopted by the County Board and
approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   (B)   Municipal lead agency. In order to implement the Solid Waste Plan and
to effectuate the purposes of the Solid Waste Plan in regard to environmentally
sound waste disposal, the city hereby designates the county as a municipal lead
agency which may exercise all the powers of a municipal joint action agency, as
set forth in §§ 3.2 and 3.2a of the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act.
   (C)   Powers of municipal lead agency. The county, being a municipal lead
agency, the County Board may exercise the following powers:
      (1)   Adopt such ordinances which require that all or any portion of
municipal waste generated within the county, including that within the city, be
delivered to a transfer station or landfill designated by the county;
      (2)   Adopt such ordinances which require that all persons engaged in the
business of hauling or transporting municipal solid waste, including those so
engaged in the city, obtain a waste hauler’s license from the County Board; and
      (3)   Adopt and implement such recycling programs necessary to comply
with state-imposed recycling mandates.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 13) (Ord. 13 (Series 1992-1993), passed 12-21-
1992)
CONNECTION AND INSTALLATION
§ 52.15 SEWERS ADJACENT TO PIPES.
   No drain pipe shall be laid closer than four feet to any iron water service
pipe and no iron water service pipe closer than four feet to any drain pipe;
provided, however, the water service pipes of lead or copper may be laid in the
same ditch or trench with sewer pipes or drain pipes, and provided, further, no
iron water service pipe shall be laid in any street between the water main and
the stop box anywhere within the primary water district, that is to say, on any
street in which any public water service main is laid.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 5, § 4) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16 HOUSE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   House connections with the public sewers shall be made with not
less than four-inch vitrified, salt-glazen, stoneware pipe from the sewer to a
point two feet outside of the building wall, the pipe to be jointed with
Portland cement mortar consisting of one part of Portland cement and two parts
of sand from a point three feet outside of foundation wall through the building
to a point not less than two feet above the roof, the main soil pipe shall be
of cast iron soil pipe, four inches in diameter, with lead joints.
      (2)   All drains from kitchen sinks of hotels and public eating houses
and from laundries shall be provided with grease traps. In all cases where
deemed necessary by the Committee, catch basins shall be provided to intercept
water used in washing automobiles in garages or basement floors or for the
collection of subsoil water from subdrains. The outlet from such catch basins
shall be properly trapped so as to prevent air from the sewer entering the
building and shall be provided with a back water trap to prevent water from the
sewer backing up into the catch basin. Connections with all sewers and drains
shall be made in a workmanlike manner, and all material and work shall be
subject to the inspection and approval of the Committee or its duly authorized
assistants.
   (B)   The street must be opened and paving or street surfacing and the
excavated material deposited in a manner that will occasion the least
inconvenience to the public, and provision for the passage of stormwater along
the gutters must be made. One half of the street must be left clear for the
passage of vehicles and bridge-ways provided on sidewalks for foot passengers.
The refilling of trenches must be in the same manner as that provided for the
refilling of water trenches. The paving or street surfacing and curbs and
sidewalks are to be restored to at least as good a condition as they were
before the excavation was made and all the rubbish and surplus earth must be
removed.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 5, § 7) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17 DEDICATION OF SEWER LINES IN PUBLIC STREET.
   Mains, as a condition of allowing location of any sewer or water streets or
upon any property owned by the city of all such mains, shall be dedicated to
the city prior to their construction, and in the event any such mains are
installed without such dedication, the act of installation shall be dedication
to the city, as aforesaid.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 5, § 11) (Ord. 4 (Series 1982-1983), passed -
-)
§ 52.18 FACILITY SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Privies and the like not connected to sanitary sewer. From and after
July 1, 1970, it shall be unlawful to use or maintain within the limits of the
city sanitary facilities which are detached from the building which they serve;
it shall, from and after such date, be unlawful to maintain or use any sanitary
facilities which are not connected to the city sewer system unless such
connection is excused by division (B) below.
   (B)   Discharge from premises within 300 feet of sanitary sewer. It shall be
unlawful to permit the discharge of sewage from any premises within 300 feet of
the city sewer system other than into such sewer system if such premises are so
situated that such discharge may be made by gravity flow, said 300 feet to be
measured from the middle of the street or alley opposite the corner of the
premises nearest a municipal sewer line, constructed or hereafter constructed,
which may serve such premises by gravity flow except as provided in division
(C) below.
   (C)   Premises exceeding 50 by 100 feet in dimensions. Where the premises to
be served by the city sewer system exceed 50 feet by 100 feet in dimensions,
for the purpose of determining if the corner thereof nearest to the city sewer
system is within 300 feet of such system, the improvements on such premises
shall be considered as centered on a lot with a 50-foot frontage and a 100-foot
depth, and the 300 feet shall be measured from the center of the street or
alley opposite the corner of such assumed dimensions as may be nearest the city
sewer system as constructed or as hereafter constructed.
   (D)   Tapping fee. From July 1, 1969, through June 30, 1970, applicants for
municipal sewer service provided or to be provided by the city shall pay a
tapping fee of $25 for such service, and thereafter, a tapping fee of $50 for
each service shall be charged each applicant; provided, such fees shall be in
addition to any service charge or connection charge which may be due to the
city for the services of its employees and for materials furnished for
connecting to said sewer system, and such fees paid prior to July 1, 1970,
shall be deposited in the City Sewer Bond Fund, and all tapping fees received
after June 30, 1970, shall be deposited in the General Corporate Fund.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 7A) Penalty, see §
52.99
PERMITS AND FEES
§ 52.30 PERMITS.
   All permits given, as aforesaid, to connect with sewers and drains shall be
upon the express condition that the Committee may revoke and annul the same at
any time previous to the time the work of making such connection is commenced,
and the persons making such connections or their successors in interest shall
not have the right to claim any damages in consequence of such permission being
revoked or annulled.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 5, § 3)
§ 52.31 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   Applications for permits to connect to sewers and drains must be made and
filed in the office of the City Clerk by the drain layer who is employed to do
the work and must state the location of the property to be connected, the name
of the owner, and the number of buildings to be connected and how occupied.
Applications for permits must be accompanied by a sketch plan showing the
location of the proposed connection and the manner in which it is to be made.
The Committee shall inspect the plan, and if it finds that the connection
provided for by such plan does not conform to the provisions of this chapter or
the rules and regulations of the City Council relating to such connections, it
shall not issue a permit for its construction.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 5, § 6)
§ 52.32 GRANTING PERMITS.
   The Committee is expressly prohibited from granting a permit to any person
to connect with any sewer unless the property to be connected is within the
drainage district in which such sewer is located nor unless all assessments
against the property to be connected which are then due have been paid, and all
permits for the making of connections prohibited by this section shall be
granted only by the resolutions of the Council.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 5, § 5)
§ 52.33 SEWER EXTENSION FEES.
   For purposes of this section, a SEWER EXTENSION TO A PREVIOUSLY UNSEWERED
PROPERTY is defined as any extension of public sewer requested by a property
owner or user, where the sewer is to be extended by the city and at the city’s
expense to any user not previously served by the sewer system. The fee for any
such extension shall be $1,500.
(Ord. 12 (Series 2001-2002), passed 9-4-2001)
§ 52.34 BASIC CHARGES.
   (A)   For sewer customers of the city, the current base rate shall be $7.66
plus $2.43 per 1,000 gallons of water usage and shall be known as the current
base rate for customers within the city limits of the city. For sewer customers
outside the city limits, the current base rate shall be 1.5 times the current
base rate for customers within the city limits. The rates established herein
shall take effect and be subject to CPI adjustments consistent with existing
ordinances as of May 1, 2010.
   (B)   Whenever any residence or other premises are connected to the city
sewer system without being attached to the water system, the minimum monthly
sewer fee shall be $35 per month.
(Ord. 11 (Series 1998-1999), passed 11-2-1998; Ord. 8 (Series 2009-2010),
passed 7-20-2009)
§ 52.35 SEWER IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   Beginning with May, 1986, and every month thereafter, $1,500 shall be
deposited in the Sewer Improvement Fund, to be transferred from the Water and
Sewer Fund.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 11) (Ord. 3 (Series 1986-1987), passed 7-21-
1986)
§ 52.36 SEWER HOOKUP FEES NOT OTHERWISE ESTABLISHED.
   All connections or hookups to the city sewers for which a fee is not
otherwise established herein shall have a fee of $50. All sewer connection or
hookup fees shall be paid to the City Clerk upon the filing of any application
for building permit in the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 7, § 4)
REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC LOCATIONS
§ 52.50 CHURCH STREET BETWEEN 7TH AND 9TH STREETS.
   (A)   Any person or corporation, except the city, desiring to use water from
the public water system of said city and connect onto the public sewer system
of said city and who makes a connection with the water main and sewer main
located on Church Street between 7th Street and 9th Street shall pay a
connection fee of $3 per running foot frontage based on the extent of frontage
of land owned by the person or corporation desiring to connect onto the water
main and sewer main located on Church Street for each such connection, and such
connection shall be made under the supervision of the Public Works Director of
said city.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, RUNNING FOOT FRONTAGE shall mean the
number of feet fronting on Church Street between 7th Street and 9th Street of
the city owned by the person or corporation desiring to make connection with
the public water main and sewer main of the city.
   (C)   Any person or corporation, except the city, not located on Church
Street between 7th Street and 9th Street hereafter desiring to use water from
the public water system of said city or desiring to connect onto the sewer
system of said city and who makes a connection with the water main or sewer
main located on Church Street between 7th Street and 9th Street in the city
shall pay a connection fee of $75 for each such connection and such connection
shall be made under the supervision of the Public Works Director of said city.
   (D)   Said connection fee shall be due and payable at the time such
connection is made and shall be paid to the City Clerk who shall credit the
same to the Department of Public Sewers and Water Works.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 7, § 1) (Ord. 10 (Series 1955-1956), passed -
-) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.51 20TH STREET BETWEEN KEOKUK AND LAUREL.
   Any applicant for municipal sewer to be directly provided by the facilities
situated on 20th Street between Keokuk Street and Laurel Street shall pay a
tapping fee of $75 for such sewer service, which tapping fee or fees shall be
in addition to any service charge or connection charge which may be due to the
city for the services of its employees and for materials furnished for
connecting to said system or systems, and such fee or fees shall be paid to the
city before connections to the said facilities shall be made.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 7, § 2) (Ord. 11 (Series 1969-1970), passed -
-) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.52 LYNN STREET AT 17TH STREET.
   The city shall require any person connecting to the sewer on Lynn Street,
lying between the manhole on 17th Street and the first manhole east of said
manhole on 17th Street, on Lynn, to pay a $100 hookup charge plus the regular
tapping charge. Said sums are to be paid over to the City Clerk prior to any
person making any such connection to said sewer as aforesaid.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 7, § 3) (Res. 6 (Series 1971-1972), passed - -
) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.53 2ND STREET BETWEEN MAIN AND ELM STREETS.
   There shall be a sewer main tapping fee of $250 and a water main tapping fee
of $300 for any hookups to the water main and sewer main installed in 2nd
Street between Main and Elm Street.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 7, § 3A) (Ord. 16 (Series 1983-1984), passed -
-)
§ 52.54 SPECIFIC WASTE SEWER, STORM SEWER, AND STORMWATER DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Second or industrial waste sewer to storm sewer. It shall be unlawful
for any person, firm, or corporation to connect or cause to be connected any
drain carrying or to carry any toilet, sink, basement, septic tank, cesspool,
industrial water, or any fixture or device discharging polluting substances to
any stormwater drain in the city constructed as part of the improvement of F.A.
Route 53, known as Section (29, 30) W, RS-1.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 5, § 10)
   (B)   Industrial waste sewer to stormwater drainage systems. It shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to connect or cause to be
connected any drain carrying or to carry any toilet, sink, basement, septic
tank, cesspool, industrial water, or any fixture or device discharging
polluting substances to any stormwater drain in the city constructed as part of
the improvement of F.A. Route 53, known as State Sections 23 (RX, BR) and 23,
W, RS.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 5, § 10A)
(Ord. 21 (Series 1978-1979), passed - -; Ord. 4 (Series 1985-1986), passed 7-
15-1985; Ord. 6 (Series 1994-1995), passed 8-15-1994) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The making of any connection to any sewer or drain without said permit
shall subject the person making the same and the owner or occupant of the
premises directing it to a penalty of not less than $10 for each and every day
said connection shall remain after notice by the Committee to close, remove, or
discontinue the same.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 5, § 2)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
52.18 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100,
and each day on which such violation occurs shall be considered a separate
violation.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 7A)
   (D)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §
52.54(A) shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 5, § 10)
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §
52.54(B) shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 5, § 10A)
(Ord. 21 (Series 1978-1979), passed - -; Ord. 4 (Series 1985-1986), passed 7-
15-1985; Ord. 6 (Series 1994-1995), passed 8-15-1994) Penalty, see §
52.99
CHAPTER 53: CROSS-CONNECTIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Type of plumbing installed
   
53.03   Regular public water supply
   
53.04   Surveys and investigations of water hazards
   
53.05   Termination of water supply
   
53.06   Cost of cleanup
Municipal/Private Water Company Regulations
   
53.20   General policy
   
53.21   Definitions
   
53.22   Water system
   
53.23   Cross-connection prohibited
   
53.24   Where protection is required
   
53.25   Type of protection required
   
53.26   Backflow prevention devices
   
53.27   Inspection and maintenance
   
53.28   Booster pumps
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   Rule 890.1510 of the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.1510,
requires protection of all potable water systems from contamination due to the
backflow of contaminants through plumbing connections, fixtures, or
appurtenances, and the State Pollution Control Board regulations, 35 Ill. Adm.
Code 601.101, et seq., requires an active program of cross-connection control
which will prevent the contamination of all public water supply systems due to
backflow of contaminants or pollutants through the potable water service
connection. In order to accomplish these goals, it is necessary to introduce
restrictions that described, in detail, specific procedures and requirements
for cross-connection control.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 14) (Ord. 12 (Series 1998-1999), passed 11-2-
1998)
§ 53.02 TYPE OF PLUMBING INSTALLED.
   All plumbing installed within the city shall be installed in accordance with
the State Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890. If, in accordance with the
State Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the Public Works Director, an
approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public
water supply system, the Public Works Director will give notice to the water
customer to install such an approved device immediately. The water customer
shall, at his or her own expense, install such an approved device at a location
and in a manner in accordance with the State Plumbing Code, State Environmental
Protection Agency, and all applicable local regulations and shall have
inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon installation and as
required by the State Plumbing Code, State Environmental Protection Agency, and
local regulations.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 14, § 1) (Ord. 12 (Series 1998-1999), passed
11-2-1998)
§ 53.03 REGULAR PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply, other than the regular public water
supply of the city, may enter the supply or distribution system of said
municipality unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Public Works Director and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 14, § 2) (Ord. 12 (Series 1998-1999), passed
11-2-1998) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS OF WATER HAZARDS.
   It shall be the duty of the Public Works Director to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial, industrial, and other properties
served by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations
shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every
two years or as often as the Public Works Director shall deem necessary.
Records of such surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a
period of at least five years.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 14, § 3) (Ord. 12 (Series 1998-1999), passed
11-2-1998)
§ 53.05 TERMINATION OF WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   The Public Works Director of the city is hereby authorized and
directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the
water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this chapter is known to exist and to take such other
precautionary measures as he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service
to such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been
eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
until a re-connection fee of $250 is paid to the city. Immediate disconnection
with verbal notice can be effected when the Public Works Director is assured
that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply system
exists. Such action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of
disconnection.
   (B)   Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to
prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water
supply, provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the Public Works Director
or the State Environmental Protection Agency, such action is required to
prevent actual or potential contamination or pollution of the public water
supply. Neither the city, the Public Works Director, or its agents or assignees
shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages, or lost revenues which
may result from termination of said customer’s water supply in accordance with
the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination was with or without
notice.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 14, § 5) (Ord. 12 (Series 1998-1999), passed
11-2-1998)
§ 53.06 COST OF CLEANUP.
   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned or back-pressured material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained, or repaired device or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of clean-up of the potable water supply system.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 14, § 6) (Ord. 12 (Series 1998-1999), passed
11-2-1998)
MUNICIPAL/PRIVATE WATER COMPANY REGULATIONS
§ 53.20 GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
      (1)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable
water system and non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures, and sources or
systems containing substances of unknown or questionable safety; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the city.
   (C)   Policy. The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or back-siphonage of contaminants through the customer’s water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the Public Works Director or his or her
authorized representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the Public Works Director
shall give notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention
device at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall
immediately install such approved device or devices at his or her own expense;
failure, refusal, or inability on the part of the consumer to install such
device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds for disconnecting water
service to the premises until such device or devices have been installed. The
consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance, testing, and repair
as required in §
53.23(D)(4) below for a period of at least five years. The Public Works
Director may require the consumer to submit a cross-connection inspection
report to the city to assist in determining whether or not service line
protection will be required. All cross-connection inspections shall be
conducted by a cross-connection control device inspector certified by the State
Environmental Protection Agency.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 14A, § 1) (Ord. 12 (Series 1998-1999), passed
11-2-1998)
§ 53.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. State Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of California,
Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works Association,
American National Standards Institute, or certified by the National Sanitation
Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams or process fluids or used water. These waters may be polluted
or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or system over
which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in the state must meet the standards of the State Plumbing
Code and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian, or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer’s
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a CUSTOMER’S WATER
SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into another.
   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device, or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word SEVERE, as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD, means a
hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum, or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping, and appurtenances, appliances, and installations
of a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the State Plumbing
Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use,
as determined by the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604.
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration, or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes
including, without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley, or
at the curb to within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work, or assemble. PLUMBING includes all piping from discharge of
plumbing units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems.
PLUMBING includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a
building drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any
building or buildings where a person or persons live, work, or assemble for the
point of connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private
sewage disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign (organic, inorganic, radiological, or
biological) material in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604
for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S). Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically, or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollutional, or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer’s potable water system. This includes, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams, or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspensions; and
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis, and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes, and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks, and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use, for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either a
community water supply or a non-community water supply.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each
end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type, and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer’s piping system. The SURVEY must be in written form and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner of official custodian of a public water system.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 14A, § 2) (Ord. 12 (Series 1998-1999), passed
11-2-1998)
§ 53.22 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer’s water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Public Works Director up to the
point where the consumer’s water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s water
system.
   (E)   The consumer’s water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 14A, § 3) (Ord. 12 (Series 1998-1999), passed
11-2-1998) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.23 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water of other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested, and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   On request by the Public Works Director or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the consumer’s premises. The consumer’s
premises shall be open, at all reasonable times, to the Public Works Director
for the verification of information submitted by the inspection consumer to the
public water supply custodian regarding cross-connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices in his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
systems through which contaminates or pollutants could backflow into his or the
public potable water system. All cross-connection control or other plumbing
inspections must be conducted in accordance with 225 ILCS 320/3.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage;
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instruction;
      (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency as a
cross-connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instruction; and
      (4)   Testing and records shall be as follows.
         (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with 415 ILCS 5/4.
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            1.   Date of each test;
            2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            3.   Test results;
            4.   Repairs or servicing required;
            5.   Repairs and date completed; and
            6.   Service performed and date completed.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 14A, § 4) (Ord. 12 (Series 1998-1999), passed
11-2-1998) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.24 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and the Agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 681. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water supply system serving premises where, in the judgment of the
Public Works Director, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply
system exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exists:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Public Works Director and the
source is approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency;
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Public Works Director;
      (3)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Public Works Director and/or the cross-connection control device inspector,
are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross-connection exist;
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection; and
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
   (C)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and the Agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving, but not necessarily limited to, the
following types of facilities unless the Public Works Director determines that
no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, and nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks, and waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, or stormwater
pumping stations;
      (5)   Food or beverage processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal plating industries;
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      (10)   Car washes;
      (11)   Pesticide or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; and
      (12)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 14A, § 6) (Ord. 12 (Series 1998-1999), passed
11-2-1998)
§ 53.25 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
53.24(B)(1) through (B)(3) shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as
follows.
      (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      (3)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
53.24(B)(4) and (B)(5) shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or
an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      (1)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant, or
other chemicals;
      (2)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      (3)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source;
      (4)   Water can be pumped into the fire safety system from any other
source; or
      (5)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   (D)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 14A, § 7) (Ord. 12 (Series 1998-1999), passed
11-2-1998)
§ 53.26 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National
Standards Institute, or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be
in compliance with applicable industry specifications.
   (B)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. Manufacturer’s Maintenance Manual shall be
available on-site.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 14A, § 8) (Ord. 12 (Series 1998-1999), passed
11-2-1998) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.27 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer, at any premises on which
backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are installed, to
have inspections, tests, maintenance, and repair made in accordance with the
following schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are
specified in manufacturer’s instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter and required service performed
within five days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by division (A) above.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed, or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 14A, § 9) (Ord. 12 (Series 1998-1999), passed
11-2-1998)
§ 53.28 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the Public
Works Director, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 14A, § 10) (Ord. 12 (Series 1998-1999), passed
11-2-1998) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The Public Works Director shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein any backflow prevention device required by §§
53.20 through
53.28 is not installed, tested, maintained, and repaired in a manner acceptable
to the Public Works Director or if it is found that the backflow prevention
device has been removed or bypassed or if an unprotected cross-connection
exists on the premises or if a low pressure cut-off required by these
regulations is not installed and maintained in working order.
      (2)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Public Works Director,
and the required re-connection fee is paid, in accordance with §§
53.20 through
53.28.
      (3)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects on conformance
with §§
53.20 through
53.28 and to the satisfaction of the Public Works Director.
      (4)   Neither the city, the Public Works Director, or its agents or
assignees shall be liable to any customers of the city for any injury, damages,
or lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer’s water
supply in accordance with the terms of §§
53.20 through
53.28, whether or not said termination of the water supply was with or without
notice.
      (5)   In accordance with §§
53.20 through
53.28, the consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained, or
repaired device or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
      (6)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
53.20 through
53.28 shall be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violation.
      (7)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
53.20 through
53.28, in addition to the fine provided, shall become liable to the city for
any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such
violation, whether the same was caused before or after notice.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Article 14A, § 11) (Ord. 12 (Series 1998-1999), passed
11-2-1998)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING RULES
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Age limit
   
70.03   Driving under the influence
   
70.04   Accidents
   
70.05   Classification of vehicles
   
70.06   Signs and signals
   
70.07   Animals or bicycles
   
70.08   Exemptions
   
70.09   Pedestrians
Condition of Vehicles
   
70.20   Clear vision
   
70.21   Unnecessary noise
   
70.22   Equipment
   
70.23   Gas and smoke
   
70.24   Projecting loads; width
   
70.25   Weight
Administration
   
70.40   Obedience to police
   
70.41   Citation settlement
   
70.42   Final notice
   
70.43   Issuance of complaint
   
70.44   Correcting violations
   
70.45   Parking violations
   
70.46   Impounding vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The closely built-up business portion of the city.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the prolongation of
the sidewalk lines at street intersections.
   DRIVER. Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles used by the Police or Fire Department in the
line of duty, ambulances, and any vehicle conveying a city official or employee
in response to an emergency official call.
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry.
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. A roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam, or gravel.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the property
lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not such
streets cross.
   LOADING ZONE. The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the unloading or loading of passengers or materials.
   METAL TIRE. Every tire, the surface of which (in contact with the roadway)
is wholly or partly of metal or other hard, non-resilient material.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on no more than three wheels in contact with the ground but
excluding a tractor.
   PARK. To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, for a period of time
greater than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of
persons.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PNEUMATIC TIRE. Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support
the load.
   PROPERTY LINE. The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots
or property abutting thereon.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. A building used by the city or by any park district, school
district, the State of Illinois, or the United States government.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The closely built-up residence portion of the city.
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street designed or ordinarily used for vehicular
traffic.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle without motor power designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by
another vehicle.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line.
   SOLID TIRE. Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
   STREET. Every way set aside for public travel except foot paths.
   SUBURBAN DISTRICT. The portion of the city other than the closely built-up
business and residence districts.
   TRAFFIC. Vehicles using any street for travel.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motor power designed for carrying passengers
or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no
part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including bicycles but not
perambulators or toy vehicles.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 1, § 1)
§ 70.02 AGE LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under 16 years of age to operate any
motor vehicle upon any street in the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 7, § 1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any habitual user of narcotic drugs to operate any
motor vehicle on any street, and it shall be unlawful for any intoxicated
person or any person under the influence of alcohol or of a narcotic drug to
operate or attempt to operate any motor vehicle on any street.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 7, § 2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 ACCIDENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle which has collided with or
been in an accident with any vehicle, person, or property in such a manner as
to cause injury or damage, to fail or refuse to stop immediately, to render
such assistance as may be possible, to give his or her true name and residence
to the injured person or any other persons requesting the same on behalf of the
injured person or the owner of the property damaged, and to a police officer if
one is present. The driver of any vehicle which is, in any means, involved in
an accident within the city resulting in injury to or death of any person or in
which damage to the property or any other or any other person, including
himself or herself, in excess of $250 is sustained shall give notice of the
accident by the fastest available means of communication to the Police
Department of the city as soon as possible but no later than ten days after
such accident, forward a written report of such accident to the Secretary of
State.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 7, § 3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 CLASSIFICATION OF VEHICLES.
   For the purposes of this chapter, motor vehicles shall be divided into two
divisions, to-wit:
   (A)   First, vehicles which are designed for the carrying of not more than
seven persons; and
   (B)   Second, those vehicles which are designed and used for pulling or
carrying freight and also vehicles designed and used for carrying more than
seven persons.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 1, § 2)
§ 70.06 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   Signs and signals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
City Council or in accordance with the laws of the state.
      (2)   Whenever vehicular traffic upon the streets of the city is
controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting different colored lights
successively, the following colors shall be used and vehicular and pedestrian
traffic upon said streets and, upon the sidewalks adjoining said streets, shall
respond to said colors as follows.
         (a)   Green. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight
ahead or turn right or left unless such right or left turn is further regulated
by other signals placed at the site, pursuant to authority of the Council;
provided, before proceeding, such vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-
way to other vehicles or pedestrians lawfully within the street at the time
such color is exhibited; pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the
street or public way within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
         (b)   Yellow. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before
entering the crosswalk, if any, at the site, and respond to the color following
yellow as such response may be directed by this section. Pedestrians upon the
sidewalks shall maintain their position thereon and shall not enter into the
public way.
         (c)   Red. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before
entering the nearest crosswalk at the site and shall remain stopped until the
green color is shown; pedestrians facing such signal shall remain upon the
sidewalk and shall not enter into the public way.
         (d)   Flashing yellow. Vehicular and pedestrian traffic facing the
signal may proceed straight ahead or turn right or left unless such right or
left turn is otherwise prohibited by the traffic ordinances of the city but
shall yield the right-of-way to any other traffic, vehicular or pedestrian,
within the public way.
         (e)   Flashing red. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall come to
a full stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at the site and may,
thereafter, proceed straight ahead or turn right or left, unless such right or
left turn is otherwise prohibited by the traffic ordinances of the city but
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicular traffic approaching the site from
the right or left; pedestrians upon the sidewalks shall maintain their position
thereon and shall not enter the public way until vehicular traffic in or
approaching the intersection shall have passed.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 1, § 4)
   (B)   Unauthorized signs. It shall be unlawful for any person to piece,
maintain, or display any device, other than official warning or direction sign
or signal authorized by statute or ordinance upon or in view of any street, if
such device purports to be or is an imitation of an official warning or
direction, sign, or signal or directs or purports to direct the movement of
traffic. Any such unauthorized device is hereby declared to be a nuisance and
may be removed by any police officer.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 1, § 5)
   (C)   Interference with signs. It shall be unlawful for any person to
deface, injure, move, or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 1, § 6)
   (D)   Signal regulation.
      (1)   Electric traffic signs and signals. It shall be unlawful for the
driver of any vehicle to disobey the instructions of any electric traffic sign
or signal placed in the city, excepting on direction of a police officer.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         FLASHING SIGNAL.
            1.   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line but, if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection or, if none, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
            2.   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is
illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed
through the intersection or past such signal only with caution.
         GREEN.
            1.   Traffic, except pedestrians, facing a circular green may
proceed straight through or turn right or left except as such movement is
modified by lane-use signs, turn prohibition signs, land markings, or roadway
design. However, vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal
indication is exhibited.
            2.   Traffic, except pedestrians, facing a green arrow, shown alone
or in combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow or such other
movement as is permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Such
vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within
an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
            3.   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal, pedestrians
facing any green indication, except when the sole green indication is a turn
arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
         STEADY RED.
            1.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady, circular red signal alone
shall top at a clearly marked stop line but, if none, before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until an indication to
proceed is shown except as provided in division (D)(2)(c)3. below.
            2.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady, red arrow signal shall not
enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow and, unless
entering the intersection to make a movement permitted by another signal, shall
stop at a clearly marked stop line but, if none, before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before entering the
intersection and shall remain standing until an indication permitting the
movement indicated by such red arrow is shown except as indicated in division
(D)(2)(c)3. below.
            3.   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn, vehicular
traffic facing any steady red signal may cautiously enter the intersection to
turn right or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street after
stopping as required by (D)(2)(c)1. and (D)(2)(c)2. above. Such vehicular
traffic shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
            4.   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal, pedestrians
facing a steady, circular red or red arrow signal alone shall not enter the
roadway.
         STEADY YELLOW.
            1.   Traffic, except pedestrians, facing a steady, circular yellow
or yellow arrow signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is
being terminated or that a red indication will be exhibited immediately
thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the intersection.
            2.   Pedestrians facing a steady, circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal, are thereby advised
that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway before a red indication is
shown, and no pedestrian shall then start to cross the roadway.
         OTHER SIGNS AND SIGNALS. Each driver of any type of vehicle, whether
motorized or not, and where it applies, motorcycle, moped, and bicycle
operators shall obey all signs and signals directing traffic, giving
information about special speed zones, hazardous conditions, road work, and any
other special directions.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 9)
(Ord. 19 (Series 1960-1961), passed - -; Ord. 4 (Series 1997-1998), passed 6-2-
1997) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 ANIMALS OR BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street shall be subject to the provisions of this traffic code
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 1, § 7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this traffic code regulating the movement or parking of
vehicles shall not apply to emergency vehicles while the driver thereof is
engaged in the performance of emergency duties nor shall such provisions apply
to persons actually engaged in repairing or otherwise improving the streets
under authority of the City Council or of the state.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 1, § 8)
§ 70.09 PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   Right-of-way. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to
drive into any crosswalk without the exercise of due and proper care in view of
the special use made thereof by pedestrians. It shall be unlawful to drive any
vehicle into any crosswalk while there is, in such crosswalk upon the half of
the roadway upon which such vehicle is traveling, any pedestrian engaged in
crossing the roadway until such pedestrian shall have passed beyond the path of
such vehicle, when the pedestrian shall indicate his or her intention to cross.
The driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when any other
vehicle proceeding in the same direction is stopped at such crosswalk for the
purpose of permitting a pedestrian to cross.
   (B)   Pedestrians using roadway. At no place shall a pedestrian cross any
roadway other than by the most direct route to the opposite curbing, and when
crossing at any place other than a crosswalk, he or she shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      (1)   No person shall stand or loiter in any roadway if such act
interferes with the lawful movement of traffic.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand in a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting a ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (C)   Signals. At intersections where traffic is directed by a police
officer or by a stop and go signal, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to
cross the roadway other than with released traffic if such crossing interferes
with the lawful movement of traffic.
   (D)   Standing on sidewalk. It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand
upon any sidewalk, except as near as is reasonably possible, to the building
line or curb line if such standing interferes with the use of said sidewalk by
other pedestrians.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 2) Penalty, see §
70.99
CONDITION OF VEHICLES
§ 70.20 CLEAR VISION.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is so loaded or in such a
condition that the operator does not have a clear vision of all parts of the
roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle. Any vehicle that is so
constructed or loaded that the driver’s view of the roadway to the rear is
obstructed shall be equipped with a mirror so attached as to give him or her a
view of the roadway behind him or her.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 4, § 1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle on the streets which makes
unusually loud or unnecessary noise.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 4, § 2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Horn. Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and sufficient
audible signaling device in efficient working condition. Such signaling device
shall be sounded, when necessary, to give timely warning of the approach of a
vehicle, but such horn or other signaling device shall not be sounded for any
purpose other than as a warning of impending danger. No motor vehicle other
than an emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a siren or gong signaling
device.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 4, § 3)
   (B)   Brakes. It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle upon any
street unless such vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good
working condition, as required by the State Traffic Law, being 625 ILCS 5/11-
201 et seq., or to operate any vehicle which is so loaded that the operator
does not have ready access to the mechanism operating the brakes of such
vehicle.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 4, § 6)
   (C)   Muffler. No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such
vehicle is provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition, and
the use of a cut-out is prohibited.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 4, § 7)
   (D)   Lights. It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any street any
vehicle not equipped with adequate lights conforming to the requirements of the
state law.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 4, § 8)
   (E)   Non-skid devices. It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle
upon any street equipped with any non-skid device so constructed that any rigid
or non-flexible portion thereof comes into contact with the pavement or
roadway.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 4, § 9)
   (F)   Tires. It shall be unlawful to operate on any street any motor vehicle
which is not equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of the State
Traffic Law, being 625 ILCS 5/11-201 et seq.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 4, § 10)
   (G)   Engine brake noise and breaking system.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or
operate within the city any mechanical exhaust device, engine brake,
compression brake, or similar device that results in excessive, loud, or
unusual noise from such vehicle.
      (2)   Evidence that the noise from the operation of such device is
audible at a distance of 300 feet from the motor vehicle is prima facie
evidence of a violation.
(Ord. 16 (Series 2001-2002), passed 2-19-2002)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 GAS AND SMOKE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such
an amount of smoke and fumes as to be dangerous to the health of persons or as
to endanger the drivers of other vehicles.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 4, § 4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 PROJECTING LOADS; WIDTH.
   (A)   The maximum width of any vehicle and its load shall not exceed eight
feet excepting loads of loose hay, straw, corn fodder, or similar farm
products, agricultural implements, and threshing machines.
   (B)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on the streets with a load
extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of the vehicle nor
extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders on the right side
thereof.
   (C)   No vehicle, unladen, or with load shall exceed a length of 35 feet
extreme over all dimension; a truck, tractor, and semi-trailer shall be
regarded as one vehicle for the purpose of determining length.
   (D)   No combination of vehicles coupled together shall consist of more than
two units, and no such combination of vehicles, unladen or with load, shall
exceed a total length of 40 feet, but such length limitation shall not apply to
vehicles operated in the daytime when transporting poles, pipes, machinery, or
other objects which cannot be readily dismembered nor to such vehicles operated
at nighttime by a public utility when engaged in emergency repair work, but
such loads carried at night shall be clearly marked with sufficient lights to
show the full dimensions of the load.
   (E)   No part of the load of a vehicle shall extend more than three feet in
front of the extreme front portion of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 4, § 5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 WEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful to drive on any street any motor vehicle with a weight,
including load, in excess of that permitted by the State Traffic Law, being 625
ILCS 5/11-201 et seq. for driving on improved highways or with weight
distributed in a manner not conforming to such law.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 4, § 11) Penalty, see §
70.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 70.40 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all traffic
in accordance with the provisions of this section or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal, or direction of a
police officer. Except in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any
person not authorized by the Chief of Police to direct or attempt to direct
traffic.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 1, § 3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.41 CITATION SETTLEMENT.
   Pursuant to said citation, the person so accused of said violation may
settle and compromise the violation claim in respect to the violation of the
city code by paying to the municipality the applicable amounts, as shown in the
schedule set forth to be specified in said citation, not more than ten days
from the time said alleged offense was committed. Said payment shall be made in
accordance with the instructions contained in the citation at the office of the
City Clerk, who shall issue a receipt for the money so received and promptly
remit said amount to the City Treasurer to be credited to the proper municipal
fund.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article 8, § 2)
§ 70.42 FINAL NOTICE.
   In the event that the person to whom said citation is issued fails to settle
and pay said violation within the time specified in the citation, a final
notice shall be mailed to him or her.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article 8, § 3)
§ 70.43 ISSUANCE OF COMPLAINT.
   In the event that the person to whom said citation is issued fails to settle
and pay said violation claim within the time specified in the final notice, the
police officer is authorized to cause the citation and a notice to appear to be
served upon said alleged violator and to file the same as a complaint in the
County Circuit Court and prosecute the same. The officer, as an alternative,
may file a formal complaint in the Circuit Court in lieu of the citation.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article 8, § 4)
§ 70.44 CORRECTING VIOLATIONS.
   The payment in the amount as a settlement herein will not excuse the
securing of and the payment of a license fee provided for in the city code or
for the correction of the violation. Proof of correction must be furnished
before settlement is accepted.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article 8, § 5)
§ 70.45 PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   The fact that an automobile or other motor vehicle which is illegally
operated or parked is registered with the Secretary of State in the name of
said alleged violator or, in the alternative, in the event that a vehicle
issued by a municipality has been issued in the name of and to said violator,
the same shall be proof that said alleged violator was in control of or was the
operator of the motor vehicle at the time of such alleged violation. The
commercial lessor of any vehicle, whether or not the registered owner, shall be
responsible for such parking violation and subject to the penalty therefor.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article 8, § 6)
§ 70.46 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is deemed necessary for the preservation of the
public peace, health, and safety and is intended to create safer roadways
within the county by deterring drivers from committing certain offenses while
offsetting some of the county’s administrative costs associated with these
offenses.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE. An attorney, other than the state’s Attorney or
his or her designee, who is licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois,
is in good standing with the Illinois Attorney Registration and Disciplinary
Committee, and who has been licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois
for three years and whose duty it is to:
         (a)   Preside at an administrative hearing called to determine by a
preponderance of the evidence whether or not a motor vehicle was used in
violation of this section;
         (b)   Hear testimony and accept evidence regarding the commission of
the offense;
         (c)   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing; and
         (d)   Issue and sign a written finding, decision, and order stating
whether he or she finds, by a preponderance of evidence, that a violation of
the offense existed such that the provisions of this section shall apply.
      CERTIFIED FUNDS. A certified check, cashier’s check, money order, or
United States currency.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. As set forth in the Illinois Vehicle Code for “motor
vehicles” in 625 ILCS 5/1-146; said definition is hereby adopted and
incorporated herein.
      REGISTERED OWNER. The record title holder(s) of the vehicle as registered
with the Illinois Secretary of State or, if not registered in the State of
Illinois, the Secretary of State of the particular state where the vehicle is
registered.
   (C)   Vehicles subject to seizure and impoundment.
      (1)   A motor vehicle that is used in connection with any of the
following violations may be subject to seizure and impoundment by the county.
Regardless of whether the registered owner was driving the motor vehicle at the
time of the seizure and impoundment, the registered owner of the motor vehicle
shall be liable to the county for an administrative fee of $200 in addition to
any other penalties that may be assessed by a court of law for the underlying
violations and towing and/or storage fees charged by the towing company.
      (2)   Those violations are as follows:
         (a)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of or in
the attempt to commit an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to § 361 of the Criminal Code of 2012 (720 ILCS 5/36-1);
         (b)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs,
an intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof in violation
of 625 ILCS 5/11-501 et seq.;
         (c)   Operation of use of a motor vehicle in the commission of or in
the attempt to commit a felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act (720
ILCS 550/1 et seq.);
         (d)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of or in
the attempt to commit an offense in violation of the State Controlled
Substances Act (720 ILCS 570/1 et seq.);
         (e)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of or in
the attempt to commit an offense in violation of §§ 24-1 (unlawful use of a
weapon), 24-1.5 (reckless discharge of a firearm), or 24-3.1 (unlawful
possession of a firearm and firearm ammunition) of the Criminal Code of 1961 or
the Criminal Code of 2012 (720 ILCS 5/24-1, 720 ILCS 5/24-1.5, 720 ILCS 5/24-
3.1);
         (f)   Driving while a driver’s license, permit, or privilege to
operate a motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to § 6-303 of the
State Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/6-303 et seq.), except that vehicles shall not
be subjected to seizure or impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid
citation (parking or moving) or due to failure to comply with emission testing;
         (g)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting,
possessing, or attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled
substance, as defined by the Cannabis Control Act 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.) or
the State Controlled Substances Act (720 ILCS 570/1 et seq.);
         (h)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver’s
license, in violation of § 6-101 of the State Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/6-101 et
seq.) if the period of expiration is greater than one year;
         (i)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been
issued a driver’s license or permit, in violation of § 6-101 of the State
Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/6-101 et seq.), or operating a motor vehicle without
ever having been issued a driver’s license or permit due to a person’s age;
         (j)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a Circuit Clerk in the state for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated §§ 6-101, 6-303, or 11-501 of the State
Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/6-101 et seq., 625 ILCS 5/6-303 et seq., 625 ILCS 5/
11-501 et seq.);
         (k)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of or in
the attempt to commit an offense in violation of Article 16 or 16A of the
Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012 (720 ILCS 5/16 et seq.);
         (l)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of or in
the attempt to commit any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of
the Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012;
         (m)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of § 11-503 of
the State Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-503 et seq.):
            1.   While the vehicle is part of a funeral procession; or
            2.   In a manner that interferes with a funeral procession.
   (D)   Notice of impoundment. Whenever a police officer has reason to believe
that the driver of a motor vehicle has committed one or more offenses as set
forth in division (C) above, the officer shall provide for the towing of that
motor vehicle to a facility authorized by the City Police Department. The city
shall place an administrative hold on the motor vehicle until such hold is
released, as provided in this division (D). At the time the vehicle is towed,
the city shall notify or make a reasonable attempt to notify the owner(s),
lessee, person identifying himself or herself as the owner or lessee of the
vehicle, lienholder of record, and any person who is found to be in control of
the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense of the fact of the seizure and
of the vehicle owner’s or lessee’s right to an administrative hearing. Such
notice(s) shall be mailed to the owner(s), lessee, or person identifying
himself or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, lienholder of record,
and any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged offense personal delivery or by first-class mail to the person’s or
entity’s address as shown by the registration of such vehicle.
   (E)   Release from impound.
      (1)   Motor vehicles which are seized and impounded under this section
shall remain impounded until the occurrence of one of the following events:
         (a)   The registered owner, lessee, or lien holder of record (as
applicable) appears at the City Police Department and remits full payment of
the $200 administrative fee by certified funds, payable to the “Hamilton Police
Department Vehicle Impoundment,” and any and all towing and storage charges are
paid to the towing operator or the City Police Department; or
         (b)   The registered owner, lessee, or lienholder of record (as
applicable) appears at the City Police Department and remits bond in the amount
of $200 and requests a hearing to contest the validity of the impound and any
and all towing and storage charges are paid to the towing operator or the City
Police Department.
      (2)   The registered owner, lessee, or lien holder of record may satisfy
divisions (E)(1)(a) or (E)(1)(b) above by mailing certified funds to the
following address within 20 days of when the notice of impoundment, as provided
in division (D) above, was mailed by the Chief or his or her designee: Hamilton
Police Department Attn: Vehicle Impoundment 1010 Broadway Street Hamilton,
Illinois 62341.
      (3)   All written requests for administrative hearings made under
division (E)(2) above must include the name of the registered owner; the make,
model, and license plate of the vehicle impounded; the date seized; the
location of the vehicle when seized; and the address and telephone number of
the owner, lessee, or lienholder making the request for an administrative
hearing.
      (4)   Upon receiving written proof of the occurrence of either divisions
(E)(1)(a) or (E)(1)(b) above, the City Police Department shall inform the
private towing company that the city is releasing its hold on the vehicle.
Regardless of whether the city’s hold on the vehicle is released pursuant to
divisions (E)(1)(a) or (E)(1)(b) above, the private towing company shall have
the right to hold the vehicle until the costs associated with the towing and
storage have been paid in full or other arrangements for payment have been made
in a manner consistent with the company’s normal practices. All bond money
posted pursuant to this division (E) will be held by the City Police Department
until the Hearing Officer issues a decision or, if there is a timely judicial
review, until a court of competent jurisdiction issues its final decision.
   (F)   Notice of administrative hearing. Upon receipt of a request for an
administrative hearing, as set forth in division (E) above, the City Police
Department shall issue a hearing date. Notice of such hearing shall be served
upon the registered owner, lessee, and lienholder of record (as applicable) by
either personal service or first-class mail to the party’s address, as
registered with the Secretary of State or other applicable state agency if the
vehicle is registered in a state other than this. The notice shall contain the
date, time, and location of the administrative hearing. The hearing date shall
be no less than 20 days and not later than 45 days after the date such notice
is mailed or personally served to the interested parties.
   (G)   Administrative hearing. The administrative hearing shall be held in
conformity with the following requirements.
      (1)   The hearing shall be conducted by an Administrative Law Judge
approved by the City Council to hear such matters.
      (2)   The hearing shall be recorded and the Administrative Law Judge
shall be empowered to administer oaths and to secure by subpoena both the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of relevant books and
papers.
      (3)   The registered owner(s), lessee, or person identifying himself or
herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, lienholder of record, and any
person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
offense may be represented by counsel, at their own expenses, and his or her
legal counsel must appear in person at this hearing to contest the
administrative fee, regardless of whether the registered owner was the person
operating the vehicle at the time it was seized and impounded.
      (4)   The City Police Department shall be represented by the City
Attorney or his or her designee.
      (5)   The Administrative Law Judge shall preside at an administrative
hearing called to determine by a preponderance of the evidence whether or not a
motor vehicle was used in violation of this section.
      (6)   The Administrative Law Judge shall hear testimony and accept
evidence regarding the commission of the offense.
      (7)   The Administrative Law Judge shall preserve and authenticate the
record of the hearing and all exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing.
      (8)   Evidence at the hearing must follow these guidelines.
         (a)   Formal rules of evidence shall not apply at this administrative
hearing.
         (b)   The following shall not be considered valid defenses to the
administrative fee at the administrative hearing; however, this list of invalid
defenses is not exclusive:
            1.   The registered owner was not the driver of the vehicle;
            2.   The driver of the vehicle has been adjudicated not guilty of a
criminal charge related to the incident; or
            3.   A criminal charge against the driver of the vehicle related to
the incident has been dismissed or otherwise disposed of.
      (9)   The Administrative Law Judge shall issue and sign a written
finding, decision, and order stating whether he or she finds, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that a violation of the offense existed such
that the provisions of this section shall apply and the basis for such a
finding.
      (10)   All administrative hearings requested under this section shall be
held at the County Court House, 500 Main Street, Carthage, Illinois 62321.
      (11)   If the Administrative Law Judge determines the motor vehicle was
used in violation of division (C) above, he or she shall order the registered
owner to pay the city an administrative fee of $200 in addition to costs
incurred by the county for the administrative hearing in the amount of $200.
      (12)   If the Administrative Law Judge determines the motor vehicle was
not used in violation of one of the offenses enumerated in division (C) above,
he or she shall make a written finding reflecting that determination.
      (13)   If the Administrative Law Judge determines that the motor vehicle
was not used in violation one of the offenses enumerated in division (C) above,
the $200 bond shall be remitted to owner, lessee, or lienholder of record that
paid the bond within 14 business days of the date on the administrative ruling.
      (14)   The Administrative Law Judge does not have the authority to order
the refund of the costs assessed by a private towing company; these costs must
be paid regardless of the outcome of the administrative hearing. In addition,
the ruling of the Administrative Law Judge shall have no effect on any pending
criminal charges related to the incident for which the vehicle was seized and
impounded.
      (15)   Administrative review shall be as follows.
         (a)   The order of the Administrative Law Judge shall be considered a
final order and shall be subject to a direct appeal with the County Circuit
Court, 9th Judicial District, upon filing the appropriation petition(s) for
review within 30 days of the date of the order and decision of the
Administrative Law Judge.
         (b)   The administrative fee amount and the cost incurred by the city
in conducting the administrative hearing shall become a debt due and owing to
the city after the period for judicial review has expired.
   (H)   Stolen vehicles. The administrative fee imposed by the county under
this section shall not be charged if the motor vehicle used during the
commission of the offense was stolen at that time of the offense and the theft
was reported to the appropriate police authorities within 24 hours after the
theft was discovered or reasonably should have been discovered.
   (I)   Abandoned vehicles. A vehicle impounded pursuant to division (C) above
shall be deemed abandoned and subject to disposition pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/4-
201 et seq. if the owner(s), lessee, or person identifying himself or herself
as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, lienholder of record, and any person who
is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense
occurred fails to pay the administrative fee or bond, as provided in division
(E) above, within 35 days from the date of the seizure.
   (J)   Administrative fees, bond, and hearing costs.
      (1)   All administrative fees collected by the City Police Department
shall be remitted to the City Police Department budget under the line item
“City Ordinance.”
      (2)   All bond fees collected by the City Police Department shall be
remitted to the City Police Department budget under the line item “City
Ordinance” until the conclusion of all hearings and any rights to appeal have
been exhausted. In the event that the Administrative Law Judge finds that the
vehicle was used in violation of division (C) above, the bond money previously
posted shall be moved to the “Impoundment Fee” line item. In the event that the
Administrative Law Judge finds that the vehicle was not used in violation of
division (C) above, the city shall issue a refund within 14 days.
      (3)   Any and all expenses incurred as a result of conducting a hearing,
as provided in this section, shall be paid for under the line item “Impoundment
Fee.”
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/1-146, 625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq., 625 ILCS
5/6-101 et seq., 625 ILCS 5/6-303 et seq., 625 ILCS 5/11-501 et seq., 625 ILCS
5/11-503 et seq., 720 ILCS 5/16 et seq., 720 ILCS 5/24-1, 720 ILCS 5/24-1.5,
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1, 720 ILCS 5/36-1, 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq., 720 ILCS 570/1 et
seq.
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Fines. Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions
of §§
70.01 through
70.09,
70.20 through
70.25,
70.40 through
70.45,
71.01 through
71.11,
71.25 through
71.30,
71.32,
71.45 through
71.47,
72.01 through
72.05, and non-specified provisions of
Chapter 74 and
Chapter 75 shall be fined not less than $1 nor more than $100 for each offense.
      (2)   Civil penalty. Whenever a police officer of the city is authorized
to arrest a person without a warrant because of the violation of any of the
following provisions, in respect to any of the following penalties, said police
officer may, in lieu of filing a formal complaint in court, in the first
instance issue to such alleged violator a citation:
         (a)   Advising said person that he or she has violated a specific
ordinance;
         (b)   Requesting him or her to make payment in an amount applicable to
said alleged violation as set forth above as settlement of said violation
claim; and
         (c)   Informing him or her that, upon failure to so settle, a
complaint will be filed in the County Circuit Court charging him or her with
such violation.
Section Topic Fine
Section      Topic                                        Fine
71.29        Unattended vehicle                           $15
71.32        Obstructing traffic                          $15
71.46        Left turn to park on Broadway                $15
72.01        Parking                                      $15
72.01        Parking in intersection                      $15
72.01        Parking in crosswalk                         $15
72.01        Parking on bridges                           $15
72.01        Parking too close to signal or sign          $15
72.01        Parking within ten feet of intersection      $15
72.01        Parking on roadway                           $15
72.01        Parking near fire hydrant                    $15
72.01        Blocking driveway                            $15
72.01        Parking near railroad crossing               $15
72.01        Parking near entrance to fire station        $15
72.01        Parking where parking is prohibited          $15
72.02        Parking at curb                              $15
72.03        Parking cars for sale                        $15
72.04        Loading zone                                 $15
72.05        Handicapped parking                          $15
92.01(A)(1)  Nuisances/stock - smell                      $15
92.01(A)(2)  Dead animals                                 $15
92.01(A)(3)  Offal, streets and alleys                    $15
92.01(A)(4)  Offal, public grounds                        $15
92.01(A)(5)  Rendering water unwholesome                  $15
92.01(A)(6)  Obstructing drainage                         $15
92.01(A)(7)  Obstruction of way by stock                  $15
92.01(A)(8)  Spitting upon sidewalks                      $15
92.01(A)(9)  Putrifiable matter on premises over 24 hours $15
92.01(A)(10) Condition of property in foul condition      $15
92.01(A)(11) Offensive cattle and swine                   $15
92.01(A)(12) Noxious exhalations                          $15
92.01(A)(13) Dilapidation and obnoxious growth            $15
92.01(A)(14) Obnoxious growth                             $15
92.01(A)(15) Stagnant water                               $15
92.01(A)(16) Butchering                                   $15
92.01(B)     Weeds                                        $15
92.01(C)     Burning of household garbage or waste        $15
92.01(D)     Burning of trash                             $15
133.08       Animals; disturbance of peace                $15
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article 8, § 1)
   (C)    Persons violating §
70.06 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 9)
   (D)   Any such conduct shall be known as disorderly conduct and a violation
of §
71.26 and shall constitute a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, be subject to a
fine of not less than $1 and not more than $100.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 22)
   (E)   Any such conduct shall be known as disorderly conduct and be a
violation of §
71.27 and shall constitute a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, be subject to a
fine of not less than $1 and not more than $100.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 23)
   (F)   The violation of any of the terms of §
71.33 by any person shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $75 nor more
than $500 for each offense.
   (G)   Any person violating any of the terms of §
71.48 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $100 for
each offense.
   (H)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provisions of §
71.49 shall be subject to punishment by a fine of $75.
   (I)   Persons violating §
72.06 shall be subject to a fine of $75.
   (J)   Any violation of
Chapter 74, Schedule II, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $25 nor
more than $500 for each such offense, unless otherwise specified.
(Ord. 8 (Series 1990-1991), passed 8-20-1990; Ord. 7 (Series 1991-1992), passed
8-19-1991; Ord. 9 (Series 2011-2012), passed 4-2-2012; Ord. 4 (Series 2015-
2016), passed 6-15-2015; Ord. 5 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Manner of Driving; Rules for Driving
   
71.01   Approaching left turn
   
71.02   Approaching right turn
   
71.03   Driver must signal
   
71.04   Emerging from alley, driveway, or garage
   
71.05   Driving on sidewalks and safety zones
   
71.06   Right-of-way at intersections
   
71.07   Following fire apparatus
   
71.08   Driving on right side of roadway
   
71.09   Overtaking
   
71.10   Frightened horses
   
71.11   Train signals
Prohibited Conduct
   
71.25   Reckless driving
   
71.26   Disorderly conduct
   
71.27   Careless driving
   
71.28   Bicycles and motorcycles
   
71.29   Unattended vehicles
   
71.30   Unattended animals
   
71.31   Riding on running boards
   
71.32   Obstructing traffic
   
71.33   Vehicles with more than two axles
Specific Street Regulations
   
71.45   Through streets
   
71.46   U-turns on Broadway
   
71.47   Intersection at 10th and Broadway
   
71.48   Regulating skateboards and the like on sidewalks
   
71.49   Access to Dike Road area
MANNER OF DRIVING; RULES FOR DRIVING
§ 71.01 APPROACHING LEFT TURN.
   The driver of any vehicle intending to turn to the left at an intersection
or into any alley or driveway shall approach the point of turning in the
traffic lane nearest the center of the roadway.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 APPROACHING RIGHT TURN.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the right at an intersection
shall approach the point of turning in the traffic lane nearest the right-hand
edge or curb of the roadway.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 DRIVER MUST SIGNAL.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall suddenly start, slow down, stop, or
attempt to turn without first giving a suitable signal in such a manner as to
apprise others who might be affected by his or her action.
   (B)   The signals herein required shall be given by means of the hand and
arm or by a signal lamp or signal device, but when a vehicle is so constructed
or loaded that a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to the front and
rear of such vehicle, then said signals must be given by such a lamp or device.
   (C)   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from
the left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward or moved with a sweeping
motion from the rear to the front; and
      (3)   Stop or decrease of speed: hand and arm extended downward.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY, OR GARAGE.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or garage shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or across a
sidewalk line projected across such alley, sound the horn of said vehicle, and
shall exercise unusual care in driving upon said sidewalk or across such line.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   Vehicles not to be driven on sidewalks or in safety zones. No driver of a
vehicle shall drive within any sidewalk area, except at a permanent or
temporary driveway, nor at any time into or upon any portion of a roadway
marked as a safety zone.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   Subject to §
71.08, the driver of a vehicle shall give the right-of-way to the driver of a
vehicle approaching along an intersecting street from the right and shall have
the right-of-way over those approaching from the left.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   Upon the sounding of gongs or warning devices used upon fire apparatus or
fire patrol vehicles, drivers shall draw their vehicles as near to the right
curb as is reasonably possible and shall remain standing until such fire
apparatus has passed. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, other
than one on official business, to follow any fire apparatus in response to a
fire alarm closer than one block or to park any vehicle within the block where
fire apparatus has stopped to answer to a fire alarm. It shall be further
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive over any unprotected hose of
the Fire Department without the consent of the Fire Marshal or the assistant in
command.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   Any driver of a vehicle, upon meeting another vehicle, shall turn toward the
right side of the roadway so far as may be necessary in order to avoid
collision with such vehicle. Further provided, it shall be unlawful to operate
any vehicle upon the left side of any roadway except where necessary because of
obstructions.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 OVERTAKING.
   Any driver of a vehicle, upon overtaking another vehicle, shall pass on the
left side of the overtaken vehicle. When requested so to do, any driver of a
vehicle traveling upon any street shall, as soon as practicable, turn to the
right so as to allow any overtaking vehicle free passage to the left of the
overtaken vehicle.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 FRIGHTENED HORSES.
   Any driver of a vehicle shall, at signal from a person in charge of a
frightened horse, bring his or her vehicle to a stop and remain stationary
until said horse has passed.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.11 TRAIN SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a railroad grade crossing when a
signal device gives warning of the immediate approach of a train shall stop
within 50 feet but not less than ten feet from the nearest track of such
railroad and shall not proceed until he or she can do so safely.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop and remain standing and not
traverse such grade crossing when a flagger gives a signal of the approach of a
train.
   (C)   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire or any
school bus or of any vehicle carrying explosives or flammable liquid as cargo
shall stop such vehicle within 50 feet but not less than ten feet from the
tracks and shall listen and look in both directions from which a train might
come before proceeding across such tracks at a grade crossing.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 21) Penalty, see §
70.99
PROHIBITED CONDUCT
§ 71.25 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the municipality in a
reckless or wanton manner or so as to unnecessarily endanger life or property.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.26 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful within the city limits for any person operating a motor
vehicle to, at any time, spin, slide, or squeal its tires in the operation of
such motor vehicle. For purposes of this section, SQUEAL is defined as any
audible noise caused by sliding or spinning tires. For the purposes of this
section, a MOTOR VEHICLE is any vehicle required to be licensed by the state.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.27 CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful within the city limits for any person operating a motor
vehicle to operate or drive it in a careless manner. For the purposes of this
section, CARELESS DRIVING is defined as any driving in a careless or negligent
manner so as to unnecessarily or neglectfully endanger life or property. For
purposes of this section, a MOTOR VEHICLE is any vehicle required to be
licensed by the state.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 23) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.28 BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   Riding bicycles and motorcycles. It shall be unlawful for more than
one person to ride upon any bicycle propelled by human power upon any street or
for any person to ride upon any motorcycle other than upon a seat attached to
said vehicle.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 14)
   (B)   Clinging to vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person on any
street riding a bicycle, motorcycle, or any toy vehicle to go upon any roadway
other than at a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 17)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.29 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall be left unattended while the motor of such vehicle is
running, and no vehicle shall be left without a driver on any hill or incline
unless the vehicle is secure against moving.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.30 UNATTENDED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended in
any street without having such animal securely fastened.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 16) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.31 RIDING ON RUNNING BOARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the fenders, running board,
hood, spare tire, or outside step of any vehicle.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.32 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain upon any street in such a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.33 VEHICLES WITH MORE THAN TWO AXLES.
   Loaded vehicles with more than two axles are prohibited from traveling on
any street in the city unless delivering or picking up a load.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2015-2016), passed 6-15-2015) Penalty, see §
70.99
SPECIFIC STREET REGULATIONS
§ 71.45 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The following streets and parts of streets are hereby declared to
constitute through streets: Broadway from 2nd Street to 14th Street.
   (B)   Every driver of a vehicle or street car traversing any street
intersecting with any through street shall stop such vehicle or street car
before entering upon the through street unless a “go” signal is given at such
intersection by traffic officer or a traffic sign.
   (C)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain places where
stop signs are to be placed, and when the same are placed in accordance
therewith, it shall be the duty of motorists to stop their vehicles before
entering upon the street being approached.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 20)
§ 71.46 U-TURNS ON BROADWAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make a U-turn at the intersections of Broadway
and 9th Street, 10th Street, 11th Street, 12th Street, 13th Street, and 14th
Street when proceeding in any direction through said intersections. A U-TURN is
defined, for this section, as any turn to the left reversing the direction of
travel of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle upon
Broadway Street between 9th Street and 12th Street to cause the same to be
turned for the purpose of reversing the direction of the vehicle’s travel or to
make a U-turn.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 24) (Ord. 4 (Series 2008-2009), passed 5-
19-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.47 INTERSECTION AT 10TH AND BROADWAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle operating on 10th Street within
said city to enter the intersection of said 10th Street with Broadway Street
until the operator thereof shall cause the same to be stopped before entering
the crosswalk at the near side of such intersection nor thereafter until entry
into said intersection may be made with reasonable safety and after yielding
the right-of-way to traffic on Broadway Street in or entering upon said
intersection.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle operating on Broadway Street in
said city to enter the intersection of said Broadway Street with 10th Street in
said city until the operator thereof shall have caused the same to be stopped
before entering the crosswalk at the near side of such intersection nor
thereafter until entry into said intersection may be made with reasonable
safety and after yielding the right-of-way to any vehicular traffic in or
entering upon said intersection.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, § 4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.48 REGULATING SKATEBOARDS AND THE LIKE ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any wheeled device
propelled solely by human power upon the sidewalks of the city between 9th
Street and 12th Streets on Broadway Street. For purposes of this section, WHEEL
DEVICES shall include, but not be limited to, bicycles, scooters, roller
skates, roller blades, and skateboards.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to devices used by the handicapped nor to
devices used in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise.
(Ord. 7 (Series 1991-1992), passed 8-19-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.49 ACCESS TO DIKE ROAD AREA.
   (A)   Entry into the area described in division (B) below by any vehicle,
motor vehicle, motorcycle, bicycle, or other form of vehicular conveyance of
any nature or kind is hereby prohibited unless for road utility or other
property maintenance or unless previously authorized by the Chief of Police.
Otherwise, access to the area is limited to foot traffic only.
   (B)   The area includes the Dike Road going to the riverfront and the wooded
area south and west of the former covered bridge and north and west of U.S. 136
and east of the Montebello Access Road.
(Ord. 9 (Series 2011-2012), passed 4-2-2012) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING RULES
Section
   
72.01   Where parking prohibited
   
72.02   Parking at curb
   
72.03   Parking of vehicles for sale
   
72.04   Loading zone
   
72.05   Handicap parking
   
72.06   Parking during emergencies
§ 72.01 WHERE PARKING PROHIBITED.
   At any time, it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in any of
the following places except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic
or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or traffic signal:
   (A)   In any intersection;
   (B)   In a crosswalk;
   (C)   Upon any bridge or viaduct;
   (D)   Within 20 feet of a traffic signal or a through street sign on the
approaching side;
   (E)   Within ten feet of any intersection;
   (F)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway traffic to less than 18 feet;
   (G)   At any curb within 12 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (H)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
   (I)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad grade crossing;
   (J)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any Fire Department station
and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such station within
50 feet of such entrance; and
   (K)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § 1) (Res. 1 (Series 1956-1957), passed - -
) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 PARKING AT CURB.
   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle nearer to the
curb.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § 2) (Ord. 3 (Series 1959-1960), passed - -
) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 PARKING OF VEHICLES FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale or to park any vehicle upon any business street from
which vehicle merchandise is peddled.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § 3) (Ord. 8 (Series 1966-1967), passed - -
) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 LOADING ZONE.
   During the times specified herein, it shall be unlawful for the driver of a
vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle for a period of time longer than is
necessary for the loading or unloading of passengers, not to exceed three
minutes, and for the driver to stand any freight-carrying vehicle for a period
of time longer than is necessary to load, unload, and deliver materials, not to
exceed 30 minutes, in any of the following places: in any public alley during
any hour of the day or night.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § 4) (Ord. 19 (Series 1967-1968), passed -
-) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 HANDICAP PARKING.
   (A)   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited. Except as is permitted by
this section, no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle at anytime
designated as herein provided parking for handicapped persons.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the term HANDICAPPED
PERSON shall mean and include every natural person who has permanently lost the
use of a leg or both legs or an arm or both arms or any combination thereof; is
so severely disabled as to be unable to move without the aid of crutches or a
wheelchair; because of old age, physical incapacity, or imperfection or
deterioration is unable to move or walk without great discomfort; or a
physician duly licensed in the state to practice medicine or surgery in all of
its branches has otherwise determined such person would benefit from being
classified as a handicapped person under the provision of this section to
relieve conditions resulting from old age, physical incapacity, or imperfection
or deterioration.
   (C)   Designation of vehicles. A vehicle shall be designated as being
operated by or for a handicapped person if either of the conditions of division
(C)(1) or (C)(2) below are complied with.
      (1)   State Vehicle Code. A vehicle shall be designated as being operated
by or for a handicapped person if such vehicle bears registration plates
specified in § 11-1301-1 (pertaining to handicapped persons parking
exemptions), § 3-609 (pertaining to disabled veterans), § 3-616 (pertaining to
disabled veterans), § 3-616 (pertaining to physically handicapped persons), or
comparable provisions of the State Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/11-501.1 et
seq.
      (2)   City designation. A vehicle shall be designated as being operated
by or for a handicapped person if such vehicle bears a handicapped person
sticker issued by the city as provided herein.
   (D)   City sticker. Any person who is a handicapped person may apply to the
City Clerk for a handicapped person sticker. Such application must be
accompanied by a written statement from a physician duly licensed in the state
to practice medicine and surgery in all its branches to the effect that such
person is a handicapped person, as defined in division (B) above. The
application, upon receipt, shall be reviewed by the Chief of Police or his or
her designate to determine whether such handicapped person is disqualified from
obtaining driver’s license pursuant to the provisions of the State Vehicle
Code.
      (1)   In the event the City Clerk determines the application is in proper
order and the Chief of Police or his or her designate determines that such
handicapped person is not disqualified from obtaining a driver’s license
pursuant to the provisions of the State Vehicle Code, the City Clerk shall
issue a handicapped person sticker to such person relative to a vehicle owned
by such person. Such handicapped person sticker shall be displayed in the lower
right side of the rear window of the vehicle of the handicapped person.
      (2)   The City Clerk may issue a handicapped person sticker hereunder to
a non-handicapped person if a member of that person’s immediate family is a
handicapped person, as defined in division (B) above, and does not possess a
vehicle registered in the name of the handicapped person under the provisions
of the State Vehicle Code. Such non-handicapped person must further provide
evidence that the handicapped person relies frequently on the applicant for
transportation in the vehicle to be registered. Only one vehicle per family
member may be registered under this division (D)(2).
      (3)   All handicapped person stickers shall expire on the April 30
following issuance. Handicapped person stickers may be renewed by the person
whom issued by submitting a statement to the City Clerk that the circumstances
allowing issuance have not materially changed. A new application need not be
filed.
      (4)   No fee shall be charged for any handicapped person sticker.
   (E)   Designation of parking for handicapped person. A parking space shall
be designated as being for handicapped person if the conditions of this
division (E) are complied with:
      (1)   General parking for handicapped persons. The City Council may from
time to time designate parking spaces as being parking spaces for handicapped
person parking only. Such parking spaces designated as herein provided shall be
on property under the control and jurisdiction of the city including, but not
limited to, streets, alleys, and parking lots. All of such parking spaces shall
be referred to as general handicapped person parking spaces.
      (2)   Other general parking for handicapped persons. The owner or owners
of real property which is regularly used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel by permission of the owner or owners may, from time to time,
designate specific parking spaces on such real property as being parking spaces
for handicapped person parking only. All such parking spaces shall also be
referred to as general handicapped person parking spaces.
      (3)   Restricted parking for handicapped persons. Restricted parking for
handicapped persons may from time to time be established as herein provided.
All such restricted parking shall be restricted to or for the use of the
specific handicapped person or persons designated when established.
         (a)   Any person who owns or operates a vehicle designated, pursuant
to the provisions of division (B) above, may apply for a parking space
restricted to parking for or by a designated handicapped person or persons
only. Such application shall be filed with the City Clerk and may be filed in
conjunction with an application for a handicapped person sticker, as provided
by division (D) above. The application, upon receipt, shall be reviewed by the
Chief of Police or his or her designate to determine whether the designation of
a restricted parking space would adversely affect traffic conditions in the
city or be contrary to the traffic laws of the city or the state.
         (b)   In the event the City Clerk determines the application is in
proper form and the Chief of Police or his or her designate determines that a
restricted parking space would not adversely affect traffic conditions in the
city or would not be contrary to the traffic laws of the city or the state, a
restricted parking space shall be established. All such parking spaces shall be
referred to as a RESTRICTED HANDICAPPED PERSON PARKING SPACE.
         (c)   All restricted parking spaces established hereunder shall be
limited to spaces immediately in front of and adjacent to real property owned
or occupied by the handicapped person or persons.
         (d)   The City Clerk shall promptly notify the Public Works Director
of any restricted parking spaces established. The Public Works Director shall
place an appropriate sign at such location noting that such space is parking
for or by a designated handicapped person or persons only.
         (e)   A one-time fee of $35 shall be charged for the placement of a
restricted parking sign as provided herein.
         (f)   Any restricted parking spaces established hereunder shall
terminate automatically when the appropriate person’s vehicle is no longer
designated, as provided in division (C) above.
   (F)   Signs. Insofar as is practical, signs utilized hereunder shall conform
with the most recent edition of a National Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways. Restricted handicapped person parking signs,
however, simply include the words “Restricted Parking by Permit Only,” without
further designation.
   (G)   Handicapped person parking privileges.
      (1)   General. A person may stop, stand, or park a vehicle at any place
designated as a general handicapped person parking place; provided, such
vehicle bears valid registration plates or a handicapped person sticker, as
provided for in division (D) above. Parking even in such places shall be
limited to three hours at one time. Such registration plates or stickers shall
not entitle a person to stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a restricted
handicapped person parking space for handicapped persons unless such space has
been designated for that person.
      (2)   Restricted. A person may stop, stand, or park a vehicle at a place
designated for that person as a restricted handicapped person parking space.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § 6) (Ord. 11 (Series 1982-1983), passed -
-) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 PARKING DURING EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Weather emergency. Whenever the Mayor and the Chief of Police
determine that an emergency weather condition exists or is imminently forecast
in the city or in a section or sections thereof because of snow, freezing rain,
sleet, ice, snowdrifts, wind, storm, or other natural phenomenon which creates
hazardous road conditions impeding or likely to impede the free movement of
fire, health, police, emergency, or other vehicular traffic threatening the
safety and welfare of the community, the Mayor and Chief of Police may jointly
declare a weather emergency to exist for a period of 96 hours or less. Copies
or content of such written declaration shall be released to the public
information media prior to its effect. The emergency declaration may be
extended or renewed as conditions warrant.
   (B)   Declaration of temporary parking requirements. Whenever the Mayor and
the Chief of Police determine that exigent circumstances exist regarding
parking on the streets of the city due to any parade, fire, display, public
activities, public festivals, traffic, or other event or circumstances creating
concern for public safety during which parking on any streets would create
hazardous traffic conditions impeding or likely to impede the free movement of
fire, health, police, emergency, or other vehicular traffic threatening the
safety and welfare of the community, the Mayor and Chief of Police may jointly
declare that temporary circumstances exist requiring no parking on designated
streets for a period of 96 horns or less. Copies or content of such written
declaration shall be released to the public information media prior to its
effect. The emergency declaration may be extended or renewed as conditions
warrant.
   (C)   Signs and markers required. Those streets so designated in the joint
declaration shall be posted with suitable signs or markers at intervals not
exceeding 500 feet, which signs or markers shall bear the word “NO PARKING.”
The Public Works Director shall place and maintain all signs or markers
required by this section.
   (D)   Parking prohibited. Upon the declaration of a no-parking order, the
parking, standing, or leaving of any vehicles upon any or all of the designated
streets shall be prohibited. The declaration provided for in this section may
be extended to streets other than those designated as snow emergency routes.
   (E)   Citations. If any vehicle is parked, abandoned, or left standing in
violation of the terms of this section, the same shall be considered a hazard
and may be impounded and issued a citation. The owners of vehicles parked in
violation of this section shall be responsible for all towing and storage
charges and administrative fees unless the location at which the vehicle was
parked was not properly marked as a no-parking route in accordance with this
chapter, without regard to whether or not actual notice of the declaration was
received by the owner.
(Ord. 5 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Toy vehicles
Golf Carts and UTVs
   
73.15   Policy statement
   
73.16   Rules and regulations
   
73.17   Required equipment
   
73.18   Permits
   
73.19   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 TOY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, coaster, or other toy
vehicle to go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk except that electric
motorized scooters are allowed to be ridden on the street if the rider is at
least ten years of age, ridden during daylight hours, only. Such scooters, to
qualify for this exception, must be electric battery-powered only.
(Ord. 12 (Series 2004-2005), passed 10-4-2004) Penalty, see §
70.99
GOLF CARTS AND UTVS
§ 73.15 POLICY STATEMENT.
   This subchapter is adopted in the interest of public safety. Golf carts and
UTVs are not designed or manufactured to be used on public streets and roads,
and the city in no way advocates or endorses their operation on streets or
roadways. The city, by regulating such operation, is merely addressing safety
issues. This subchapter is not to be relied upon as a determination that
operation on streets is safe or advisable, even if done in accordance with this
subchapter. All persons operating golf carts and UTVs must be observant of and
attentive to the safety of themselves and others including their passengers,
other motorists, bicyclists, and other pedestrians. All persons who operate or
ride golf carts and UTVs on streets inside the city do so at their own risk and
peril. The city has no liability under any theory of liability for permitting
golf carts and UTVs to be operated on the streets of the city.
(Ord. 2 (Series 2014-2015), passed 5-19-2014) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.16 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who operates a golf cart or UTV in the city takes full
responsibility for all liability associated with operating a golf cart or UTV.
   (B)   Any person who operates a golf cart or UTV must be at least 21 years
of age and possess a valid driver’s license to operate a motor vehicle issued
by this or any other state.
   (C)   No person shall operate and no owner shall permit another person to
operate a golf cart or UTV on a city street unless: the golf cart or UTV is
covered by a liability insurance policy, as required by § 7-601 of the State
Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/7-601), and the operator of the golf cart or UTV
carries with him or her proof of liability insurance, as required by § 7-602 of
the State Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/7-602).
   (D) Golf carts or UTVs shall only be allowed to be operated on city streets
between one-half hour before sunrise and one-half hour after sunset, as
established by the National Weather Service.
   (E)   No person shall operate a golf cart or UTV on a city street in excess
of 20 mph.
   (F)   Golf carts or UTVs may not be operated on State Highway 96 except to
cross said highway at the intersection of Broadway Street in a path 90 degrees
or as direct as possible across said highway. Golf carts or UTVs may not be
operated on U.S. Highway 136 except to cross said highway at the intersection
of 17th Street or 9th Street in a path 90 degrees or as direct as possible
across said highway.
   (G)   Golf carts and UTVs shall have their headlights and taillights lighted
at all times when operated on city streets.
   (H)   Golf carts and UTVs may not be operated when visibility is impaired by
weather, smoke, fog, or other conditions or at any time when there is
insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a
distance of 500 feet.
   (I)   Golf carts and UTVs may not be operated on the sidewalk.
   (J)   Golf cart and UTV drivers must yield the right-of-way to overtaking
vehicles at all times.
   (K)   Any person who operates a golf cart or UTV on the streets of the city
must adhere to all applicable state laws concerning the possession and use of
alcoholic beverages and all illegal drugs as well as all other state traffic
laws.
   (L)   The maximum occupancy of golf carts and UTVs traveling on village
streets shall be equal to the amount of safety belts or passenger restraints in
the golf cart or UTV.
   (M)   Each driver and passenger of a golf cart or UTV shall wear a properly
fastened and adjusted seat safety belt (625 ILCS 5/12-603.1). Children must be
secured in a child restraint system as required pursuant to the Child Passenger
Protection Act (625 ILCS 25/1 et seq.).
   (N)   Golf carts and UTVs are only allowed to park in handicapped parking
spaces if the driver or at least one passenger has a valid handicapped parking
sticker.
   (O)   The operator of a golf cart or UTV shall obey all ordinances of the
city and all provisions of the State Vehicle Code, as amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 2 (Series 2014-2015), passed 5-19-2014) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/7-601, 625 ILCS 5/7-602, 625 ILCS 5/12-
603.1, and 625 ILCS 25/1 et seq.
§ 73.17 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   A golf cart or UTV operated on a city street shall have the following
equipment in good working condition at all times:
   (A)   Brakes;
   (B)   Steering apparatus;
   (C)   Tires;
   (D)   Rearview mirror;
   (E)   A “slow-moving” emblem, as required by 625 ILCS 5/12-709, attached to
the rear;
   (F)   Headlights that emit white light visible from at least 500 feet to the
front;
   (G)   Taillights that emit red light visible from at least 100 feet from the
rear;
   (H)   Brake lights on the rear; and
   (I)   Seat belts for each passenger
(Ord. 2 (Series 2014-2015), passed 5-19-2014) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-709
§ 73.18 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart or UTV without obtaining
a permit from the City Police Department, as provided in this section.
   (B)   Permits shall be granted for a period of one year and may be renewed
annually on May 1 of each year.
   (C)   The annual cost of a permit is $40 per golf cart or UTV to cover the
costs of implementing and maintaining this subchapter and shall be paid to the
city by the applicant. Insurance coverage shall be verified as in effect by the
Police Department when issuing or renewing a permit.
   (D)   After completion of the application and payment of the requisite fee,
the applicant shall present the golf cart or UTV to the Chief of Police or his
or her designee for an inspection to determine whether the golf cart or UTV may
be operated on a city street. If the applicant and golf cart or UTV are
qualified under the terms and conditions herein, a license shall be issued to
the applicant which must be kept on the vehicle at all times. The Police
Department shall issue a sticker as visible proof of compliance, which shall be
valid for a period of one year from the date of registration and which must be
displayed on the “slow-moving” emblem located at the rear of the golf cart or
UTV at all times.
   (E)   Golf cart or UTV owners must complete a permit application form, which
may be obtained from the City Police Department. The completed forms will be
maintained by the City Police Department.
(Ord. 2 (Series 2014-2015), passed 5-19-2014) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The license of an operator of a golf cart or UTV issued pursuant to
this subchapter may be suspended by the Chief of Police or his or her designee
if there is any material misrepresentation made by the applicant on the
application or the required liability insurance is no longer in full force and
effect or there is evidence that the license holder can no longer safely
operate the golf cart or UTV or for any reason that he or she feels is
appropriate to ensure the safety and well-being of the citizens of the city.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall issue a notice of
suspension of a license in writing and either hand-deliver the notice to the
license holder or send the notice by certified mail to the license holder at
the address on the application. The suspension of a license shall be effective
immediately after personal service or on the third day after the post mark of
the certified mail receipt.
   (C)   Upon investigation by the recommendation of the City Police
Department, the City Council may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder
upon a finding that there is evidence that the permit holder cannot safely
operate the golf cart or UTV on city streets.
   (D)   Repeat offenders may have the privileges granted by this subchapter
revoked by the City Council upon recommendation by the City Police Department.
(Ord. 2 (Series 2014-2015), passed 5-19-2014)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   One- and two-way streets
   
III.   Stop and yield signs
SCHEDULE I: SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The following streets in the city shall have speed limits as follows:
Street Name Location Speed Limit Source
Street Name   Location      Speed Limit   Source
              Between
              intersections               Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
9th Street    with Broadway 20 mph        2
              and Keokuk
              Streets
              From U.S.     20 mph on
10th Street   Highway 136   school days   Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, §
              to Laurel     when children 11
              Street        are present
              North and
              southbound
              from the
14th Street   tracks of the 40 mph        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, §
(IL 96)       Keokuk                      11A
              Junction
              Railroad to
              Walnut Street
              Between
              intersection                Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
17th Street   with Keokuk   20 mph        2
              and Cedar
              Street
              Between
19th Street   Keokuk Street 25 mph        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
              and the north               2
              city limits
              Between
Broadway      intersections 20 mph        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street        with 14th and               2
              17th Streets
              Between
Broadway      intersections 30 mph        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street        with 2nd and                2
              16th Streets
Broadway      From 8th                    Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, §
Street        Street to     20 mph        11
              12th Street
                            20 mph on
Broadway      From 17th to  school days   Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, §
Street        19th Street   when children 11
                            are present
Deer Run      Between Park                Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Drive         Drive and     25 mph        2
              Grove Street
              Beginning at
              intersection
Grove Street  with Deer Run 25 mph        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
              Drive and                   2
              ending at
              High Street
              Between
              intersection
Hamilton-     with U.S. 136 35 mph        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Warsaw Road   and a point                 2
              six-tenths of
              a mile south
Hillcrest                  20 mph        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Drive                                     2
IL 96 (River  Northbound
Road/Nauvoo   from U.S. 136 45 mph        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, §
Road)         to the north                11A
              city limits
IL 96 (River  Southbound
Road/Nauvoo   from Highland 40 mph        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, §
Road)         Drive to U.S.               11A
              136
              Southbound
IL 96 (River  from the
Road/Nauvoo   north city    45 mph        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, §
Road)         limits to                   11A
              Highland
              Drive
              East and
Keokuk Street westbound                   Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, §
(U.S. 136)    between 7th   35 mph        11A
              Street and
              Main Street
              East and
              westbound     20 mph on
Keokuk Street between 9th   school days   Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, §
(U.S. 136)    Street and    when children 11
              Hillcrest     are present
              Street
              East and
              westbound
Keokuk Street from the east 35 mph        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, §
(U.S. 136)    city limits                 11A
              to 14th
              Street
              East and
              westbound
              from the Main
Keokuk Street Street to the               Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, §
(U.S. 136)    Illinois/Iowa 45 mph        11A
              state line on
              the Keokuk/
              Hamilton
              Bridge
              Between
              intersection                Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Laurel Street with 14th     30 mph        2
              Street and
              20th Street
              Between
              intersection                Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Main Street   with 2nd      30 mph        2
              Street and
              12th Street
              Between
Walnut Street intersections 20 mph        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
              of 14th and                 2
              17th Street
              Between a
              point four-
              tenths of a
              mile south of               Ord. 2 (Series 2008-2009), passed 5-
Warsaw Road   U.S. 136 and  35 mph        19-2008
              a point six-
              tenths of a
              mile south of
              U.S. 136
              Either
Warsaw Road   direction                   Ord. 4 (Series 2005-2006), passed 10-
(1)           between U.S.  25 mph        3-2005
              136 and Windy
              Hills Road
              From a point
              six-tenths of
Warsaw Road   a mile south  55 mph        Ord. 2 (Series 2008-2009), passed 5-
              of U.S. 136                 19-2008
              and south
              thereof
              North and
              southbound
Warsaw Road   from 2nd      55 mph        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, §
              Street to the               11A
              south city
              limits
              North and
Warsaw Road   southbound    35 mph        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, §
              from U.S. 136               11A
              to 2nd Street
              South of U.S.
              136 for a                   Ord. 2 (Series 2008-2009), passed 5-
Warsaw Road   distance of   25 mph        19-2008
              four-tenths
              of a mile
              From
              intersection
              with Warsaw-
Windy Hills   Hamilton Road 30 mph        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Road          southerly and               2
              easterly to
              the city
              limits
NOTES:
(1) The violation of any of the terms of this provision shall be punishable by
a fine of not less than $75 nor more than $500 for each offense.
 
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle proceeding along and upon
any of the streets in the city to exceed a speed of 30 mph at any time or to
exceed the speed limits provided herein, subject to the further requirements of
the table above.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 3, § 11) (Ord. 18 (Series 1983-1984), passed -
-; Ord. 15 (Series 1985-1986), passed 3-17-1986; Ord. 16 (Series 1985-1986),
passed 3-17-1986; Ord. 20 (Series 1989-1990), passed 4-16-1990; Ord. 3 (Series
1992-1993), passed 7-7-1992; Ord. 6 (Series 1995-1996), passed 1-15-1996)
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II: ONE- AND TWO-WAY STREETS.
Traffic on Broadway Street between 17th Street and 19th Street in the city
shall be two-way traffic, westbound on the north one-half thereof and eastbound
on the south one-half thereof.
(Ord. 8 (Series 1990-1991), passed 8-20-1990) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III: STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
Intersection Direction Source
Stop Sign Designation
Intersection         Direction            Source
Stop Sign Designation
2nd Street and Main  Northwest corner     Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                                    1
8th Street and       Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Walnut Street                             1
9th Street and Main  North and south      Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                                    1
9th Street and Oak   East and west        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street               streets              1
 
10th Street and Elm  Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                                    1
10th and Walnut      Northerly or         Ord. 10 (Series 2001-2002), passed 9-
Streets(1)           southerly            4-2001
11th Street and      Southeast corner     Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Laurel Street                             1
11th Street and Oak  Southeast corner     Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                                    1
11th Street and      Northwest corner     Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Walnut Street                             1
11th Street,                              Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
extended north, and  Northwest corner     1
Laurel Street
12th Street and      Southeast corner     Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Laurel Street                             1
12th Street and Main Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                                    1
12th Street and Oak  Northwest corner     Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                                    1
12th Street,                              Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
extended north, and  Northwest corner     1
Laurel Street
13th Street and Elm  Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                                    1
13th Street and      Northwest corner     Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Laurel Street                             1
13th Street and Oak  Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                                    1
13th Street and      Southeast corner     Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Walnut Street                             1
15th Street and Elm  East and west sides; Ord. 13 (Series 2022-2023), passed 2-
Street               four-way stop        6-2023
16th Street and Oak  All directions;      Ord. 10 (Series 2020-2021), passed
Street(1)            four-way stop        11-2-2020
16th Street and      East and west
Walnut Street        corners; four-way    Ord. 2 (Series 2023), passed 6-6-2022
                     stop
17th Street and      All four corners     Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Broadway Street                           1
17th Street and      Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Pleasantview Street                       1
19th Street and      Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Broadway Street                           1
19th Street and Oak  Southerly side       Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                                    1
19th Street and Oak  North and south      Ord. 6 (Series 2022-2023), passed 10-
Street               side; three-way stop 3-2022
Alley between
Broadway and Oak                          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street at the        Either side          1
intersection with
5th Street
Alvord Street and    Easterly             Ord. 5 (Series 2005-2006), passed 10-
Oakcrest Street(1)                        3-2005
Broadway Street and  Easterly side        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
17th Street                               1
Broadway Street and  Southwest corner     Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
17th Street                               1
Broadway Street and  Southwest corner     Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
16th Street                               1
Cedar Street and     Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
16th Street                               1
Church Street and    Southerly            Ord. 5 (Series 2005-2006), passed 10-
Oakcrest Street(1)                        3-2005
Church Street and    Easterly side        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
20th Street                               1
Elm Street and 16th  Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                                    1
High Street and 19th Easterly side        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                                    1
High Street and 19th Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                                    1
Hillcrest Drive and  Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Crestview Drive                           1
Laurel Street and    Easterly or westerly Ord. 4 (Series 2001-2002), passed 6-
20th Street(1)                            4-2001
Laurel Street and    Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
10th Street                               1
Laurel Street and    Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
16th Street                               1
Laurel Street and    Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
17th Street                               1
Laurel Street and    Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
19th Street                               1
Laurel Street and    Easterly side        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
20th Street                               1
Main Street and 9th  Easterly or westerly Ord. 11 (Series 2001-2002), passed 9-
Street(1)                                 4-2001
Main Street with
3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th,  Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
7th, 8th, and 10th                        1
Streets
Monarosa Trailer     At the trailer park  Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Park and Grove       exit                 1
Street
Oak Street and 11th  Easterly or westerly Ord. 4 (Series 2012-2013), passed 6-
Street(1)                                 4-2012
Oak Street and 12th  Easterly or westerly Ord. 5 (Series 2001-2002), passed 6-
Street(1)                                 4-2001
Oak Street and 17th  Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                                    1
                     Northerly on 15th
Pleasantview Drive,  Street; southerly on
15th Street, and     Woodland Drive;      Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Woodland Drive       easterly or westerly 1
                     on Pleasantview
                     Drive
Pleasantview Drive   Westerly side        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
and Hillcrest Drive                       1
Walnut Street and    Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
10th Street                               1
Walnut Street and    Northwest corner     Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
11th Street                               1
Walnut Street and    East and west side   Ord. 4 (Series 2023-2024), passed 8-
12th Street                               21-2023
Walnut Street and    Either side          Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
12th Street                               1
Walnut Street and    Easterly side        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
17th Street                               1
Wildcat Road and 7th Easterly side        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                                    1
Yield Sign Designation
Yield Sign Designation
8th Street and Elm   Either side    Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                              1
13th and Elm Streets Northerly,     Ord. 14 (Series 2004-2005), passed
(1)                  southerly, and 10-4-2004
                     easterly
13th Street and      Southerly side Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Walnut Street                       1
15th Street and      Either side    Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Laurel Street                       1
Casley Drive and     Easterly       Ord. 6 (Series 2007-2008), passed 10-
15th Street(1)                      1-2004
Church Street and    Easterly side  Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
7th Street                          1
Church Street and    Easterly side  Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
9th Street                          1
Church Street and    Westerly side  Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
9th Street                          1
Church Street and    Either side    Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
18th Street                         1
Church Street and    Easterly       Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
19th Street                         1
Elm Street and 12th  Easterly side  Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Streets                             1
Iris Court and 16th  Easterly side  Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                              1
Lakeview Street and  Westerly       Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
7th Street                          1
Intersection         Direction      Source
Laurel Street and    Easterly and   Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
19th Street          westerly side  1
Laurel Street and    Either side    Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
20th Street                         1
Locust Street and    Westerly side  Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
16th Street                         1
Rose Court and 16th  Easterly side  Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                              1
Walnut and 17th      Westerly side  Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Street                              1
Woodland Drive and   North side     Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 6, §
Pleasantview Drive                  1
NOTES:
(1) Violations shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $75 nor
than $500.
 
(Ord. 5 (Series 1974-1975), passed - -; Ord. 11 (Series 1975-1976), passed - -;
Ord. 12 (Series 1976-1977), passed - -; Ord. 24 (Series 1976-1977), passed - -;
Ord. 5 (Series 1977-1978), passed - -; Ord. 11 (Series 1981-1982), passed - -;
Ord. 12 (Series 1983-1984), passed - -; Ord. 6 (Series 1989-1990), passed 7-17-
1989; Ord. 13 (Series 1989-1990), passed 12-18-1989; Ord. 15 (Series 1989-
1990), passed 2-5-1990; Ord. 21 (Series 1991-1992), passed 4-6-1992; Ord. 11
(Series 1994-1995), passed 12-5-1994; Ord. 14 (Series 1994-1995), passed 2-6-
1995; Ord. 7 (Series 1997-1998), passed 9-15-1997) Penalty, see §
70.99
 CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   Limited time parking
   
II.   Prohibited parking
   
III.   Handicap parking
SCHEDULE I: LIMITED TIME PARKING.
Street Name Location Parking Restrictions Source Penalty
Street Name  Location                                             Parking      Source                                Penalty
                                                                  Restrictions
Broadway     Between 10th and 11th Streets; middle parking space  10-minute    Ord. 10 (Series 2022-2023), passed 1-
Street       between Broadway Tap and Whitey’s on the northside parking      17-2023
                                                                  limit
                                                                  North or
                                                                  south when
                                                                  there is an
                                                                  accumulation
                                                                  of 0.5 or
                                                                  more inches
                                                                  of snow and
                                                                  until such
Broadway     Between 9th and 12th Streets                         snow is      Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, §
Street(1)                                                         removed;     5
                                                                  between the
                                                                  hours of 2:
                                                                  00 a.m. and
                                                                  6:00 p.m.
                                                                  when snow
                                                                  accumulates
                                                                  to more than
                                                                  one inch
                                                                  10-minute                                          Not
                                                                  parking                                            less
Broadway     South side; the first and second and third diagonal  limit        Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § than
Street(2)    parking spaces on the east of the intersection of                5                                     $25 nor
             10th and Broadway Streets                                                                              more
                                                                                                                    than
                                                                                                                    $100
Corner of                                                         10-minute
10th and     First parking space in front of Broadway Tap         parking      Ord. 15 (Series 2022-2023), passed 3-
Broadway                                                          limit        20-2023
Streets
                                                                  No parking
Four-way                                                          from 7:00
intersection                                                      a.m. and 4:  Ord. 11 (Series 2022-2023), passed 1-
at 17th and  One block in all directions                          00 p.m.      17-2023
Broadway                                                          Monday
Streets                                                           through
                                                                  Friday
                                                                  No parking
Laurel       Between intersections of 10th and 12th Streets       between 8:00 Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § $15
Street                                                            a.m. and 4:  5
                                                                  00 p.m.
                                                                  Between noon
                                                                  on August 15
                                                                  of each year                                       Not
                                                                  through the                                        less
Main Street  South side; between 9th and 10th Streets on the west following    Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § than
(3)(4)       one-half of the block                                June 6 at    5                                     $25 nor
                                                                  noon on                                            more
                                                                  weekdays                                           than
                                                                  between 7:00                                       $500
                                                                  a.m. and 4:
                                                                  00 p.m.
                                                                  Between noon
                                                                  on August 15
                                                                  of each year                                       Not
                                                                  through the                                        less
North 10th   North one-half of the block on the east side between following    Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § than
Street(3)    Laurel and Keokuk Streets                            June 6 at    5A                                    $25 nor
                                                                  noon on                                            more
                                                                  weekdays                                           than
                                                                  between 7:00                                       $500
                                                                  a.m. and 4:
                                                                  00 p.m.
                                                                  Between noon
                                                                  on August 15
                                                                  of each year                                       Not
                                                                  through the                                        less
South 9th                                                         following    Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § than
Street(3)    East side; between Main Street and Elm Street        June 6 at    5                                     $25 nor
                                                                  noon on                                            more
                                                                  weekdays                                           than
                                                                  between 7:00                                       $500
                                                                  a.m. and 4:
                                                                  00 p.m.
NOTES:
(1) Any motor vehicle in violation of this provision shall be towed, with the towing charge paid by the owner of the
vehicle. This restriction shall apply between the dates of December 1 to March 1 of the following year. All police officers
having jurisdiction may authorize the removal of any vehicle parked where prohibited after proper signs have been posted.
The owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for all expenses incurred.
(2) Said parking spaces shall be utilized for citizens on city business only.
(3) This provision does not prohibit angle parking on the east one-half of the block, as is provided in
Chapter 75, Schedule II.
(4) This space shall be used as a bus stop only during prohibited parking times.
 
(Ord. 10 (Series 1977-1978), passed - -; Ord. 8 (Series 1986-1987), passed 10-
6-1986; Ord. 6 (Series 1987-1988), passed 9-21-1987; Ord. 20 (Series 1991-
1992), passed 1-20-1992) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II: PROHIBITED PARKING.
Where Prohibited Source Penalty
Where Prohibited                                                       Source                                Penalty
14th Street between Keokuk Street and the south corporate limits       Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, §
                                                                       5
                                                                                                             Not
                                                                                                             less
                                                                       Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § than
Behind the Senior Citizens Building at 927 Broadway Street(5)          5                                     $25 nor
                                                                                                             more
                                                                                                             than
                                                                                                             $100
Broadway Street between its intersection with 9th Street and 11th      Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § $15
Street(2)                                                              5
East side of 9th Street from the alley north of Oak Street north to    Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § $50
Keokuk Street(9)                                                       5
                                                                                                             Not
                                                                                                             less
                                                                                                             than
East side of 9th Street from the north corner of 9th and Oak Street,                                         $25 nor
north to the north side of the private drive of Van Fleet, 365.5 feet  Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § more
north of the east side of 9th and Oak Street                           5                                     than
                                                                                                             $500,
                                                                                                             subject
                                                                                                             to a P-
                                                                                                             ticket
                                                                                                             Not
                                                                                                             less
East side of 10th Street between Broadway and the alley south of       Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § than
Broadway Street(7)                                                     5                                     $25 nor
                                                                                                             more
                                                                                                             than
                                                                                                             $500
                                                                                                             Cited
East side of 17th Street from Laurel Street to the alley north of      Ord. 3 (Series 2006-2007), passed 7-  using
Laurel Street                                                          17-2006                               P-
                                                                                                             tickets
Either side of Keokuk Street for a distance of 75 feet in either       Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, §
direction from the center of the intersection of Keokuk Street and     5                                     $15
Hillcrest Drive
Either side of Keokuk Street for a distance of 75 feet in either       Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, §
direction from the center of the intersection of 9th Street and Keokuk 5                                     $15
Street
Either the north side or the south side of Oak Street for a distance   Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, §
of 15 feet east on Oak Street from the easterly right-of-way line of   5                                     $15
14th Street
Either side of North 10th Street for a distance of 120 feet north from Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, §
the alley intersecting North 10th Street, which alley lies between     5                                     $15
Broadway and Oak Streets
North and south side of Broadway Street between the intersections of   Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, §
9th and 12th Streets when there is 0.5 inch or more of snow until the  5                                     $15
city crew has removed such accumulation(14)
North side of Broadway Street between 8th Street and 9th Street(3)     Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § $15
                                                                       5
North side of Broadway Street between 8th and 9th Streets; upon either Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § $15
side of 10th Street between Broadway and Walnut Street(4)              5
North side of Laurel Street between 13th and 14th Street               Ord. 12 (Series 2016-2017), passed 2- $75
                                                                       20-2017
North side of Main Street between 9th and 10th(11)                     Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § $15
                                                                       5
                                                                                                             Not
                                                                                                             less
North side of Walnut Street between 15th and 16th Streets, within 20   Ord. 6 (Series 2006-2007), passed 11- than
feet on either side of the gate in the chain link fence entering the   6-2006                                $75 nor
football field(13)                                                                                           more
                                                                                                             than
                                                                                                             $500
                                                                                                             Not
                                                                                                             less
Rear of the City Hall between the City Hall building and the alley to  Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § than
the south of the City Hall(8)                                          5                                     $25 nor
                                                                                                             more
                                                                                                             than
                                                                                                             $500
Route 421(1)                                                           Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § $15
                                                                       5
South side of Broadway between the entrance to the parking lot used in Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, §
connection with the retail grocery business located on Lots 5 and 6 in 5                                     $15
Block Three (in L. Sayller’s and Other’s Addition)
South side of Main between 9th and 10th Streets(10)                    Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § $15
                                                                       5
U.S. 136 from the west corporate limits northeasterly to Broadway                                            $75 nor
Street excluding on the northwest side of U.S. 136 from 46.51 meters   Ord. 14 (Series 2000-2001), passed 4- more
(152.59 feet) northeast of the centerline of 2nd Street northeasterly  2-2001                                than
to 21.10 meters (69.24 feet) southwest of the centerline of Broadway                                         $500
Street where parking be parallel to the curb
                                                                                                             Not
                                                                                                             less
U.S. Route 136 in the city from the east end of the new Mississippi    Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § than
River Bridge on U.S. Route 136 easterly to Broadway Street(6)          5                                     $25 nor
                                                                                                             more
                                                                                                             than
                                                                                                             $100
                                                                                                             Not
                                                                                                             less
                                                                                                             than
West side of 10th Street from the intersection of said 10th Street     Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § $25 nor
with Keokuk Street and for 40 feet south from said intersection(12)    5                                     more
                                                                                                             than
                                                                                                             $500;
                                                                                                             P-
                                                                                                             ticket
                                                                                                             Not
                                                                                                             less
West side of 10th Street from the southwest corner of 10th and Oak     Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § than
Street south to the southwest corner of the firehouse                  5                                     $25 nor
                                                                                                             more
                                                                                                             than
                                                                                                             $100
West side of 12th Street between Broadway and the alley immediately    Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § $15
south of Broadway                                                      5
NOTES:
(1) Unless said motor vehicle is parked parallel to the highway and at least 12
feet from the marked centerline thereof.
(2) Except that any motor vehicle designed to carry 6 persons or less or any
second division vehicle with a 1-ton capacity or less or any motor vehicle
loading or unloading passengers for a reasonable time shall not be prohibited
from parking in said location.
(3) Other than parallel to the center line of said Broadway Street with the
outer side of said motor vehicle no further than 12 inches from the curb.
(4) Other than parallel to the curb.
(5) Except for those persons utilizing the Senior Citizen facility.
(6) Except the west side of U.S. Route 136 between Broadway and Main where
parking parallel to the roadway is permitted on the road right-of-way.
(7) Except for employees of the city only.
(8) Except for city-owned vehicles and ambulance service personnel.
(9) Vehicle parking is hereby expressly allowed on the east side of 9th Street
from the alley north of Oak Street, north to Keokuk Street.
(10) Unless said vehicle is parked with the front thereof headed toward the
south right-of-way line of Main Street and located at an angle so that the
center line of the vehicle lies 45 degrees west of the north and the vehicle is
located within the established lines painted on the street for parking
purposes.
(11) Unless said vehicle is parked to the north of and parallel to the traveled
portion of Main Street.
(12) Parking is allowed along the east side of 10th Street from its
intersection with Keokuk Street to a point 70 feet south of its intersection
with Keokuk Street.
(13) All police officers having jurisdiction may authorize the removal of any
vehicle parked where prohibited after proper signs have been posted. The owner
of the vehicle shall be responsible for all expenses incurred.
(14) Motor vehicles in violation will be towed, the towing charge paid by the
owner of the vehicle.
 
(Ord. 6 (Series 1970-1971), passed - -; Ord. 11 (Series 1970-1971), passed - -;
Ord. 13 (Series 1975-1976), passed - -; Ord. 10 (Series 1978-1979), passed - -;
Ord. 3 (Series 1985-1986), passed 8-5-1985; Ord. 6 (Series 1986-1987), passed
10-6-1986; Ord. 10 (Series 1990-1991), passed 10-15-1990; Ord. 6 (Series 1992-
1993), passed 8-17-1992; Ord. 5 (Series 1994-1995), passed 8-15-1994; Ord. 10
(Series 1997-1998), passed 12-15-1997; Ord. 8 (Series 1999-2000), passed 10-18-
1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III: HANDICAP PARKING.
Street Name Location Ord. Penalty
Street Name   Location      Ord.                                  Penalty
              Third parking
              space on the
              west side,                                          Not more than
9th Street(2) south of the  Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § $500 nor less
              intersection  6                                     than $25
              of 9th and
              Broadway
              Street
              First parking
              space on the
10th Street   west side,    Ord. 8 (Series 2006-2007), passed 2-
(3)           north of its  19-2007                               $75
              intersection
              with Oak
              Street
              First parking
              space on the
              west side,                                          Not more than
10th Street   south of the  Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § $500 nor less
(2)           intersection  6                                     than $25
              of 10th and
              Broadway
              Street
              Parking space
              immediately
270 North     in front of   Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, §
10th Street   the southwest 6                                     $50
(1)           entrance of
              the middle
              school
              First and
              second                                              Not more than
Broadway      diagonal      Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § $500 nor less
Street(2)     parking       6                                     than $25
              spaces on the
              south side
              First
              diagonal
              parking space
              on the north
Broadway      side of       Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § $50
Street        street, west  6
              of the drive
              entrance to
              the Security
              State Bank
              First
              diagonal
              parking space
              on the north                                        Not more than
Broadway      side, west of Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § $500 nor less
Street(2)     the           6                                     than $25
              intersection
              of 10th and
              Broadway
              Street
              First
              diagonal
              parking space
              on the south
              side, east of
              the
              intersection
              of 10th and                                         Not more than
Broadway      Broadway      Prior Code, Chapter 13, Article 5, § $500 nor less
Street(2)     Street; the   6                                     than $25;
              first two                                           subject to P-
              diagonal on                                         tickets
              the south
              side, west of
              the
              intersection
              of 10th and
              Broadway
              Street
              Third parking
              space on the
Broadway      south side,   Ord. 6 (Series 2000-2001), passed 6-
Street(3)     east of its   5-2000                                $50
              intersection
              with 9th
              Street
              First parking
              space on the
Main Street   north side,   Ord. 9 (Series 2001-2002), passed 9-
(6)           east of its   4-2001                                $75
              intersection
              with 2nd
              Street
              North side,
              west of the   Ord. 3 (Series 2007-2008), passed 5-
Oak Street(3) intersection  7-2007                                $50
              with 10th
              Street
NOTES:
(1) No person not possessing a city or state sticker or license authorizing
them to park in handicapped person parking properly affixed to their vehicle
shall park in such spaces.
(2) No person not possessing a city or state sticker or license authorizing
them to park in handicapped person only parking, properly affixed to their
motor vehicle, shall park in such spaces.
(3) The City Clerk is requested to notify the Public Works Director of this
designation, and the Public Works Director shall, thereupon, place an
appropriate sign at such location, noting that such space is parking for a
designated handicapped person or persons only. No person not possessing a city
or state sticker or license authorizing them to park in handicapped person
parking, properly affixed to their vehicle, shall park in such spaces.
 
(Ord. 11 (Series 1986-1987), passed 2-2-1987; Ord. 18 (Series 1989-1990),
passed 2-19-1990; Ord. 18 (Series 1990-1991), passed 2-19-1991; Ord. 9 (Series
1992-1993), passed 9-8-1992; Ord. 8 (Series 1997-1998), passed 12-1-1997)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Purpose
   
90.002   Definitions
   
90.003   Exceptions
   
90.004   Right of entry; search and seizure; interference
   
90.005   Permits for traveling animal exhibits, circuses, and petting zoos
   
90.006   Animal bites
Prohibited Animal Conduct
   
90.020   Cruelty to animals
   
90.021   Noisy animals a nuisance
   
90.022   Animal fighting prohibited
   
90.023   Animals at large prohibited
   
90.024   Slaughter of animals
   
90.025   Burning of animal matter
   
90.026   When animals prohibited in public
   
90.027   Abandonment prohibited
Keeping of Animal Regulations, Limitations, and Licensing
   
90.040   Keeping of dogs and cats
   
90.041   Dogs or cats in heat
   
90.042   Beekeeping
   
90.043   Livestock
   
90.044   Fowl
   
90.045   Rabbits
   
90.046   Wild animals
   
90.047   Animals maintenance
   
90.048   Yard requirements
   
90.049   Rabies inoculation
   
90.050   Permit and license
   
90.051   Disposal of dead animals
Dangerous and Vicious Dogs
   
90.065   Dangerous dogs
   
90.066   Killing dangerous animals
   
90.067   Vicious dogs
   
90.068   Declaring vicious dogs
   
90.069   Notification of vicious dogs
Restricted Animals
   
90.080   Classification
   
90.081   Possession of restricted animals
   
90.082   Permit
   
90.083   Facility inspections
   
90.084   Animal identification; record keeping
   
90.085   Disease testing for primates
   
90.086   Care requirements for restricted animals
   
90.087   Escape and liability
   
90.088   Seizure and disposition
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect and promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare of such city by establishing requirements for the
effective control of animals. This chapter is in addition to and does not
preempt the Animal Control Act (510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.).
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
§ 90.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. A veterinarian licensed by the State of Illinois and
appointed pursuant to the Animal Control Act, being 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq. or his
or her duly authorized representative.
   ADULT DOG OR CAT. A dog or cat four months of age or older.
   ANIMAL CONTROL ACT. The state statute found at 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person designated by the city to enforce the
rules and regulations established under this chapter.
   ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN. Any person appointed by the Administrator and
approved by the Board to perform duties as assigned by the Administrator to
effectuate the Animal Control Act, being 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
   CAT. All members of the family genus Felis.
   CITY. The City of Hamilton, Hancock County, Illinois.
   DOG. All members of the family Canidae.
   ENCLOSURE. A building or other structure strong enough to keep the confined
animal away from other animals and the public.
   HAS BEEN BITTEN. Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person
or animal seized has been nipped, gripped, wounded, or pierced and, further,
includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
   LICENSE. A license purchased from the city for all dogs and cats within the
city limits.
   MATURE RABBIT. A rabbit six months of age or older.
   OWNER. Any person having a right or property in a dog or other animal or who
keeps or harbors a dog or other animal or who has it in his or her care or acts
as its custodian or who knowingly permits a dog or other domestic animal to
remain on or about any premises occupied by him or her.
   PERMIT. An official document giving residents authority to have said animals
under this chapter.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, or legal
entity; any public or private institution; or any other business unit.
   POLICE DOG. A dog owned or used by a law enforcement department or agency in
the course of the department or agency’s work.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. Those areas of districts within the corporate limits of
the city included in the general zoning classification of R (residential).
   WILD ANIMAL. Is not limited to any monkey, raccoon, skunk, fox, poisonous
snake, python snake, boa constrictor snake, piranha fish, leopard, panther,
tiger, lion, lynx, or any other warm-blooded animal which can be normally be
found in the wild state.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
§ 90.003 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon a proper showing therefor and upon due and convincing proof being
made to the Council of unique and unusual circumstances under which the strict
enforcement of this chapter would result in extreme and peculiar hardship for
the person involved; the Council may grant special permission to such person to
do some act contrary to §§
90.023,
90.043,
90.044,
90.045, or
90.048.
   (B)   The granting of any special permission may be approved by the Council
only after a public hearing has been held by such Council.
   (C)   A legal notice shall be published at least one time in a newspaper of
general circulation within the corporate limits of the city. Such notice shall
set forth the nature of the public hearing; the property involved and the date,
time, and place of the scheduled hearing; and shall be published at least five
calendar days prior to the hearing date.
   (D)   A fee of $50 shall accompany any request for such special permission.
   (E)   In addition to the legal notice, the Chief of Police or the animal
control officer shall post a sign on the property for which special permission
is being requested not less than five calendar days prior to the hearing date.
Such sign shall give notice of the special permission being requested and the
date, time, and place of the scheduled hearing.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013)
§ 90.004 RIGHT OF ENTRY; SEARCH AND SEIZURE; INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   Search and seizure in pursuit. The Chief of Police or the animal
control officer and any police officer of the city shall have the right to
enter upon any private property or public property in the city in order to
examine or capture any dog, cat, or other animal thereon or therein which such
officer reasonably believes to be in violation of this chapter; provided,
however, no such officer shall have the right to enter any house which is in
use as a residence without first having secured a search warrant therefor.
   (B)   Interference. It shall be a violation of this chapter to interfere
with the animal control officer in the performance of his or her duties.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 PERMITS FOR TRAVELING ANIMAL EXHIBITS, CIRCUSES, AND PETTING ZOOS.
   (A)   Permit required. No person, corporation, or other business entity
shall operate a traveling exhibit of unusual or exotic animals, circus, or
petting zoos without a permit issued by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Permit application. Each permit application shall be submitted to the
Chief of Police. The applicant must also comply with all regulations set forth
by the USDA and/or IDA. Any false statements made by an applicant in a permit
application will render such application null and void and subject applicant to
such penalties as may provide by law. Each applicant shall provide:
      (1)   Its name, complete address, and phone number. If the applicant is a
corporation, partnership, or other legal entity, the applicant shall designate
an active officer, partner, member, or other person acting on its behalf as
agent to represent the organization, and such agent must also provide the same
information. The applicant, permit fee, or designee must notify the Chief of
Police, in writing, of any change of address or name 14 days prior to the
change;
      (2)   Current animal inventory including the common and scientific name,
sex, age, and source of each animal; any permanent identification on the
animal; and identification of animals that have injured and/or killed a human
being. The permit fee must notify the Chief of Police within 24 hours of the
addition, removal, or death of a restricted animal listed on the inventory;
      (3)   Each animal identified herein as dangerous shall be prohibited from
any contact with members of the public;
      (4)   A copy of the current USDA permits approving the possession of
species listed on the animal inventory;
      (5)   A plan for the quick and safe recapture of the animal(s) or, if
recapture is impossible, for the destruction of any animal held under the
permit;
      (6)   An itinerary of performance schedules 30 days prior to and 30 days
after the performance in the city; and
      (7)   The permit fee shall provide a certificate of liability insurance
naming the city and the host agency as additional insured in a minimum amount
of $1,000,000.
   (C)   Escape. Permit fee shall immediately notify the Chief of Police or his
or her designee of any escape of a restricted animal and shall be responsible
for all costs associated with the escape and recapture of an escaped animal.
The city and its agents, officers, and employees shall not be liable to the
owners for any restricted animal that expires or is injured or destroyed during
recapture or to any other person for any damage or injury caused by a
restricted animal held under a permit issued pursuant to this section.
   (D)   Certificate and reports. Current health certificates for all animals
and latest reports of USDA inspections, including lists of infractions and
violations, shall be available for review by the Chief of Police.
   (E)   Time of application and permit. All permit applications must be
submitted in completed form at least six weeks prior to the scheduled event to
the Chief of Police and shall include a permit fee of $500.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 ANIMAL BITES.
   (A)   The owner of any dog, cat, or other animal which bites any human being
shall notify a city animal control officer, and the City Police Department,
within 24 hours, shall keep such dog, cat, or other animal locked up in an
enclosure for a period of ten days following the time the dog, cat, or other
animal has bitten a person and shall have the dog, cat, or other animal
examined by a licensed veterinarian at the beginning and end of the ten-day
period. The expense of the examination and lock up of said animal is the
owner’s responsibility.
   (B)   When a person has been bitten by a police dog, the police dog may
continue to perform its duties for the peace officer or law enforcement agency,
and any period of observation of the police dog may be under the supervision of
a peace officer. The supervision shall consist of the dog being locked in a
kennel, performing its official duties in a police vehicle, or remaining under
the constant supervision of its police handler.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
PROHIBITED ANIMAL CONDUCT
§ 90.020 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Generally. No person or owner or person having custody of any animal
shall treat any animal cruelly in any manner. The following acts shall be
deemed to be examples of cruelty to animals and are not intended to be a
complete list of acts which may constitute cruelty:
      (1)   By overloading, over-driving, overworking, beating, torturing,
tormenting, mutilating, or killing any animal or cause or knowingly allow the
same to be done;
      (2)   By cruelly working any old, maimed, infirm, sick, or disabled
animal or cause or knowingly allow the same to be done;
      (3)   By failing to provide any animal in his or her care or custody with
proper food, water, air, and sanitary shelter, such shelter to be sufficient to
provide adequate bedding and protection from the weather and space within
sufficient for the animal to stand in an upright position and lie down
stretched out so that no part of its body need touch the sides of the shelter
structure;
      (4)   By failing to provide necessary, veterinary attention to sick
animals in need which are in any person’s care or custody;
      (5)   By abandoning any animal where it may become a public charge or may
suffer from injury, hunger, thirst, or exposure;
      (6)   By carrying, keeping, driving, or causing to be carried, driven, or
kept any animal in a cruel manner;
      (7)   By leaving or confining any animal in a motor vehicle, trailer, or
other enclosure in such a manner that it places the animal in a life or health-
threatening situation due to exposure to heat or cold, without sufficient
ventilation or other protection from such heat or cold;
      (8)   By beating, cruelly ill-treating, tormenting, abusing, wounding, or
killing or attempting to wound or kill or by knowingly poisoning or causing to
be poisoned any animal, with the exception of rats and mice, and, then, only by
using approved Department of Agriculture poison appropriate for rodents; and
      (9)   By tethering any animal to a fixed object unless such chains,
ropes, or leashes are so placed or attached that they cannot become entangled
with another animal or object and shall be of sufficient length in proportion
to the size of the animal to allow the animal proper exercise and convenient
access to food, water, and shelter. Such tethering shall be located so as not
to allow such animal to trespass on public property or private property
belonging to others nor in such a manner as to cause harm or danger to persons
or other animals.
   (B)   Impoundment.
      (1)   No right to redeem animal. When an animal control officer or a
police officer finds a violation of this section which has resulted in an
animal being in such condition that no remedy or corrective action by the owner
or person in custody is reasonably possible or if the owner fails or refuses to
provide such remedy or corrective action, an animal control officer or a police
officer shall have the right to enter upon private property or public property
in the city to examine and/or remove and impound such animal therein. Upon such
determination and impoundment, the owner or person otherwise responsible for
said animal (owner/custodian) shall have no right of redemption from
impoundment as to such animal. No such officer will have the right to enter a
private dwelling for this purpose without a valid search warrant or other
lawful process. The owner or person otherwise responsible for said animal shall
be strictly liable for all expenses incurred in taking possession of and
impounding the animal.
      (2) Notice and review. The owner or person in custody of an animal
impounded under this division (B) shall be provided written notice of the
impoundment of the animal, which notice shall inform the owner/custodian of the
determination and finding of the animal control officer and/or police officer
and that the owner/custodian shall not have the right to redeem said animal
from impoundment by reason thereof. The owner/custodian of the animal may
appeal such determination and finding to terminate the right to possess the
animal to the Chief of Police, provided that the owner/custodian delivers a
written request for review to the Chief of Police within seven days of the date
of impoundment of the animal. The Chief shall promptly set the matter for
review and give notice to the owner/custodian of the time, date, and place of
the review; at which time, the owner/custodian shall have the opportunity to
appear to be heard on the determination to terminate the owner/custodian’s
right to possess and redeem the animal. After any such review, the Chief shall
render a written decision affirming, reversing, or modifying the termination of
the right of possession and redemption of the animal. Said written decision
shall be promptly mailed to the owner/custodian at the address provided by the
owner/custodian or delivered personally thereto. Such review and/or decision by
the Chief of Police shall not stay nor be binding as to any other prosecution
for violations of this code or other laws or regulations with respect to said
animal.
      (3)   Right of entry. If the owner cannot be located after a reasonable
search or if the owner shall be known to be absent due to illness,
incarceration, or other circumstances, an animal control officer or a police
officer shall have the right to enter upon private property or public property
in the city to examine and/or remove and impound such animal therein. No such
officer will have the right to enter a private dwelling for this purpose
without a valid search warrant or other lawful process. The owner shall be held
strictly liable for all expenses incurred.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 70/3.01 et seq.
§ 90.021 NOISY ANIMALS A NUISANCE.
   (A)   The owner or keeper shall not suffer or permit any animal to bark,
howl, cry, or make other distressing or loud or unusual noise or to disturb the
peace or quiet of any place, neighborhood, family, or person in the city in a
substantially consistent manner. The disturbing of any neighborhood or persons
by any such animal is declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   If the owner or keeper of an animal causing a repetitious disturbance
cannot be located after a reasonable search or if the owner shall be known to
be absent due to illness, incarceration, or other circumstances, the animal may
be removed by an animal control officer or a police officer and impounded;
provided, however, an animal control officer or a police officer shall obtain
necessary legal process to enter into any premises used as a residence to take
possession and remove such animal. Further, the owner or keeper of said animal
shall be held strictly liable for all expenses incurred.
   (C)   The repetitious disturbance of any place or neighborhood or person in
the city is hereby declared as nuisance, and no person shall suffer or permit
any nuisance to exist. In the case of a repeat offense, the city may petition
the Circuit Court for any order to destroy the animal.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.022 ANIMAL FIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to own, keep, capture, breed, train, or lease any
dog or other animal for purpose of fighting another dog or other animal or for
other entertainment purposes prohibited under any rule, regulation, or law of
the state.
   (B)   No person shall promote, stage, hold, manage, conduct, or carry on any
animal fight or train any animal for the purpose of an animal fight or any
other type of contest game or fight of a similar nature nor any simulated
version of game that involves baiting or inciting an animal to fight.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.023 ANIMALS AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Dogs.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any dog to run at large within the corporate
limits of the city. If a dog does run at large, the owner or keeper of such dog
shall be in violation of this chapter. Any dog which goes upon any public
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place or upon any private property,
other than that of the owner of the dog, shall be deemed to be running at large
unless such dog is firmly held on a leash or is in an enclosed vehicle or is
then and there under the complete control of a competent person and obedient to
that person’s command.
      (2)   Any dog found running at large upon a public street, sidewalk,
alley, or other public place or upon any private property, other than that of
the owner of such dog, shall be impounded by the animal control officer.
Provided, however, any vicious dog which has bitten a human being and cannot be
safely captured may be slain by the animal control officer or by a police
officer.
   (B)   Cats. It is unlawful for any cat to run at large upon a public street,
sidewalk, alley, or other public place or upon any private property other than
that of the owner of such and create a nuisance or disturbance. If a cat does
run at large and create a nuisance or disturbance, the owner or keeper of such
cat shall be in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Fowl. It is unlawful for any fowl to run at large upon a public
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place or upon any private property
other than that of the owner of such and create a nuisance or disturbance. If a
fowl does run at large and create a nuisance or disturbance, the owner or
keeper of such fowl shall be in violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Rabbits. It is unlawful for any rabbit to run at large upon a public
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place or upon any private property
other than that of the owner of such and create a nuisance or disturbance. If a
rabbit does run at large and create a nuisance or disturbance, the owner or
keeper of such cat shall be in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.024 SLAUGHTER OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall kill or slaughter any animal within the corporate limits of
the city intended to be used as food for human consumption except for a
person’s own use.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.025 BURNING OF ANIMAL MATTER.
   No person shall burn any feathers, hides, or any other animal matter within
the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.026 WHEN ANIMALS PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC.
   No person shall permit or allow any dog or other animal owned by him or her
or under his or her maintenance and control to be present at any public event
involving large numbers of people including, but not limited to, city
homecoming days, public parades, and public ball games on public property when
(in the discretion of the City Chief of Police) the presence of dogs or other
animals at such an event constitutes a danger or threat to the safety of the
public and the Chief of Police has caused signs to be posted at such event
informing the public that dogs or other animals are not permitted. This section
shall not apply to dogs or other animal trained to assist physically impaired
individuals nor to certified police dogs.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.027 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person who owns or controls an animal shall allow it to remain in a house
in which there is no current resident. The term HOUSE shall include the
surrounding yard or out buildings.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
KEEPING OF ANIMAL REGULATIONS, LIMITATIONS, AND LICENSING
§ 90.040 KEEPING OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to maintain or keep more than four adult dogs or cats
or any combination thereof in or about any dwelling unit, whether indoors or
outside. A case-by-case basis of this division (A) can be grandfathered in. No
new additions of dogs or cats can be added if granted in under the grandfather
clause. Form 2 shall be completed if an applicant would like to be considered
for the grandfather clause.
   (B)   Any person over the age of 18 years occupying or residing in any
dwelling unit where a violation of division (A) above exists shall be subject
to a fine, as provided in §
90.99.
   (C)   Each dog or cat shall be required to have a valid rabies vaccination
tag on said dog or cat.
   (D)   Each dog or cat will be required to have a valid city tag on said dog
or cat. Fee of said tag will be $10 for lifetime of dog or cat. Form 1 shall be
completed for each dog or cat within the city.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.041 DOGS OR CATS IN HEAT.
   The owner of any female dog or cat shall, during the period when the female
is in heat, keep the female confined in an enclosure in such a manner so that
the female cannot come into contact with male dogs or cats except for the
purpose of planned breeding.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.042 BEEKEEPING.
   No person shall keep or maintain bees in any residential area in the city in
such a manner as to cause inconvenience or disturbance to other persons by
reason of the swarming or stinging of the bees.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.043 LIVESTOCK.
   No person shall keep or maintain any horse, mule, pony, donkey, burro, cow,
goat, sheep, or pig in any residential area within the corporate limits of the
city.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.044 FOWL.
   (A)   No person shall keep or maintain more than ten mature chickens (hens
only), turkeys, ducks, geese, guineas, pigeons, or other poultry, fowl, or any
combination of above fowl in any residential area within the corporate limits
of the city unless the pen, poultry house, or other structure designed to
confine or shelter such poultry or fowl is so located on such tract that the
nearest portion thereof is not less than ten feet from the line of adjoining
property.
   (B)   A lifetime fee of $10 per chicken and permit (Form 3) of location of
fowl shall be submitted each year. If new fowl is obtained, owner must update
permit and fees. Permit must be approved by the City Council. The city has the
right to refuse any and all permits.
   (C)   The city has the right to refuse or revoke the permit at any time
during the year. If three valid violation of the section are documented, the
city will revoke the permit.
   (D)   All chicken coops must be a minimum of four square feet per chicken in
size, must not exceed ten square feet per chicken in size, and must not exceed
six feet in total height. Attached, fenced-in chicken runs must not exceed 20
square feet per chicken, and fencing must not exceed six feet in total height.
Chicken runs may be enclosed with wood, chain link fence, and/or woven wire
materials and may allow chickens to have contact with the ground.
   (E)   Chicken feed must be kept in metal predator-proof containers.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.045 RABBITS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or maintain more than ten mature rabbits in any
residential area within the corporate limits of said city, and no pen, hutch,
or other structure designed to confine or shelter a rabbit or rabbits shall be
so located that any portion of such pen, hutch, or other structure is closer
than ten feet from the line of adjoining property.
   (B)   Lifetime fee of $10 per rabbit and permit (Form 3) of location of
rabbits shall be submitted each year. If new rabbits are obtained, the owner
must update permit and fees. Permit must be approved by the City Council. The
city has the right to refuse any and all permits.
   (C)   The city has the right to refuse or revoke the permit at any time
during the year. If three valid violations of this section are documented, the
city will revoke the permit.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.046 WILD ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep or maintain any wild animal as a pet within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.047 ANIMALS MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Removal of waste material. The owner of any animal which deposits
fecal waste on any public place or private property, other than that of the
owner, shall be responsible for the removal of any solid waste material
deposited by his or her animal.
   (B)   Premises to be clean. The owner of any animal or bird shall maintain
the premises wherein such animals or birds are kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and are free from rodents, vermin, and disagreeable odors and waste.
   (C)   Food and water. The owner of any animal or bird shall provide food and
water of adequate quality and quantity for animals or birds in accordance with
the needs of such animals or birds.
   (D)   Shelter. The owner of any animal or bird shall provide adequate
shelter from the elements for the animal or bird. For such animals or birds
which are kept outdoors, adequate shelter shall be a structure with a top and
enclosed sides except for an opening large enough for the passage of such
animal or bird.
   (E)   Veterinary care. The owner of any animal or bird shall, when necessary
to prevent suffering of such animal or bird, provide veterinary care for such
animal or bird.
   (F)   Impoundment authorized. The animal control officer is hereby
authorized to remove from any premises and impound any animal or bird, the
owner of which has not complied with any or all of the requirements under this
section.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 70/1 et seq. and 510 ILCS 70/3.01 et seq.
§ 90.048 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   No doghouse, shelter, kennel, dog run, chicken coop, chicken run, or rabbit
cage or other such structure used to house dogs or any animals, to include fowl
and rabbits, shall be so located so that any portion of any such dog, doghouse,
shelter, kennel, dog run, chicken coop, chicken run, rabbit cage, or other
structure that houses any animal is at least ten feet from the line of the
adjoining property. The owner of a dog, fowl, or rabbit is responsible if
adjoining property lines are in question. Doghouses, shelters, kennels, dog
runs, chicken coops, chicken runs, or rabbit cages must be located in the rear
yard portion of said property.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.049 RABIES INOCULATION.
   No person shall permit any adult dog or cat owned by him or her or in his or
her custody or control to be on any public street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public place or upon the private property of any person other than such owner
unless the dog or cat shall have a collar firmly attached around its neck with
a tag evidencing a current rabies inoculation attached thereto. Any person
owning or having in his or her custody or control a dog or cat which does not
have such a collar firmly attached around its neck with a tag evidencing a
current rabies inoculation shall keep such dog or cat confined in an enclosure
in or on his or her premises at all times. This does not eliminate the
requirements for rabies inoculation.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provision, see 510 ILCS 5/12
§ 90.050 PERMIT AND LICENSE.
   (A)   Term of permit. Permits issued by the city under the provisions of §§
90.001 through
90.006,
90.020 through
90.027,
90.040 through
90.051, and
90.065 through
90.069 shall be valid for a term of one year from the date of issue unless the
permit has been revoked for violations of these provisions.
   (B)   License requirements. All dogs and cats must be licensed by the time
they reach six months old or within 30 days of being brought into the city,
whether or not they go outside. Licensing requirements are set by city
ordinance. This requirement protects the public by ensuring all dogs and cats
are vaccinated for rabies, a requirement for a license. License fee is $10 for
the lifetime of a dog or cat. Licenses shall not be passed from one dog or cat
to another.
   (C)   Rabies vaccinations. Residents are responsible for ensuring that
vaccinations do not expire during the license period.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.051 DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Prohibited disposal. No person shall deposit, place, or throw any
dead, fatally sick, or injured animal or part thereof on any public or private
place or into any reservoir, sewer, or well or on the banks of any stream,
lake, pond, or other body of water.
   (B)   Burial. All dead animals or parts thereof may be buried at a distance
of not less than 100 feet of any residence or well, and the carcass shall be
placed underground and well-covered with dirt at least four feet underground to
the upper part of the carcass.
   (C)   Immediate disposal. No person shall fail to immediately dispose of any
dead animal found upon the property under his or her possession or control.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS
§ 90.065 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   A DANGEROUS DOG means any dog which approaches any person in an
apparent attitude of attack either upon public or private property. An animal
control officer or any adult person may request, under oath, that a dog be
classified as a dangerous dog by submitting a sworn, written complaint on a
form approved by the animal control officer (“officer”). Upon receipt of such
complaint, the officer shall notify the owner of the dog that a complaint has
been filed and that an investigation into the allegations, as set forth in the
complaint, will be conducted. During the investigation:
      (1)   The custody of any dog which is the subject of the investigation
shall not be transferred by its owner to any other person nor shall the place
of maintenance of the dog be changed from its owner’s residence during said
time without the consent of the animal control officer; and
      (2)   In addition, the dog may be ordered impounded by the animal control
officer if he or she has reason to believe that, during the investigation, the
dog will cause an immediate danger to the community if it is not immediately
impounded. The owner may appeal the impoundment order to the Chief of Police,
at any time, by filing a written appeal with the City Police Department. The
Chief of Police or his or her designee shall give the owner a hearing within
three business days of the filing of the appeal.
   (B)   At the conclusion of the investigation, the officer may:
      (1)   Determine that the dog is not dangerous and, if the dog is
impounded, waive any impoundment fees incurred and release the dog to its
owner; or
      (2)   Determine that the dog is dangerous and, if the dog is impounded,
release the dog to the owner after the owner has paid all fees incurred for the
impoundment. If all impoundment fees have not been paid within ten business
days after a final determination that a dog is dangerous, the officer may cause
the dog to be humanely destroyed.
   (C)   Within five business days after declaring a dog dangerous, the officer
shall notify the owner of the dog’s designation as a dangerous dog and of the
requirements and conditions for keeping the dog, as set forth herein. The
notice shall inform the dog owner that he or she may request, in writing, a
hearing to contest the finding and designation within five business days after
delivery of the dangerous dog designation notice.
   (D)   The animal control officer shall hold a hearing within 15 days after
receiving the dog owner’s written request for such a hearing. The officer shall
provide notice of the date, time, and location of the hearing to the dog owner
and to the complainant by regular mail. At the hearing, all interested persons
shall be given the opportunity to present evidence on the issue of the dog’s
dangerousness. Criteria to be considered in a hearing required by this section
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Provocation;
      (2)   Severity of attack or injury to a person or domestic animal;
      (3)   Previous aggressive history of the dog;
      (4)   Observable behavior of the dog;
      (5)   Site and circumstances of the incident; and
      (6)   Statements from interested parties.
   (E)   A determination at a hearing that the dog is in fact a dangerous dog,
as defined herein, shall subject the dog and its owner to the provisions of
this section.
   (F)   Failure of the dog owner to request a hearing shall result in the dog
being finally declared a dangerous dog and shall subject the dog and its owner
to the provisions of this section.
   (G)   If the officer determines that a dog is dangerous at the conclusion of
a hearing conducted under §
90.004(A), that decision shall be final unless the dog owner appeals to a court
of competent jurisdiction for any remedies that may be available within ten
days after receiving notice that the dog has been finally declared dangerous.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog which
has been found to be a dangerous dog unless the person meets the following
requirements.
      (1)   Registration of dangerous dogs. The owner shall register a
dangerous dog within ten days of the dog being declared dangerous. The dog must
be registered by April 1 of each year thereafter. The dog shall be registered
with the City Clerk. The cost of each registration shall be $200.
      (2)   Insurance. The owner of a dangerous dog shall present to the City
Clerk proof that he or she has procured liability insurance or a surety bond in
the amount of not less than $100,000 covering any damage or injury that may be
caused by such dangerous dog. The policy shall contain a provision requiring
that the city be notified immediately by the agent issuing the policy in the
event that the insurance policy is canceled, terminated, or expires. The
liability insurance or surety bond shall be obtained prior to the issuing of a
permit to keep a dangerous dog. The dog owner shall sign a statement attesting
that he or she shall maintain and not voluntarily cancel the liability
insurance policy during a 12-month period for which a permit is sought unless
he or she ceases to own or keep the dog prior to the expiration date of the
permit.
      (3)   Permanent identification. Each dangerous dog shall be injected by
the Animal Control Warden or officer with a microchip to permanently identify
the dog.
      (4)   Transfer of ownership. The owner of a dangerous dog shall not
transfer ownership of such animal to any other person without providing the
City Clerk and the animal control officer with the name and address of the new
owner.
   (I)   No person shall permit any dangerous dog to leave the premises of its
owner when not under control by leash or within an enclosed vehicle.
   (J)   The owner of any dog found to be dangerous shall maintain such animal
in such a manner as to prevent its coming in contact with any person not
residing with the owner.
   (K)   Any dog found to be a dangerous dog by the animal control officer or
Animal Control Warden on two separate occasions shall be deemed a vicious dog
and reported to the Animal Control Warden as such.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/15
§ 90.066 KILLING DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   The Chief of Police or the animal control officer and the members of the
Police Department may kill any dangerous or vicious animal, including dogs
within the city of any kind, when necessary for the protection of persons or
property. Such animals shall, if reasonably possible, be killed by means other
than shooting such animal in the brain so as to preserve the brain for
laboratory determination of whether such animal had contracted rabies. Any such
animal shall be preserved as necessary for such rabies determination.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013)
§ 90.067 VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog in the
city which has been found to be a vicious dog pursuant to this subchapter or
the Animal Control Act, being 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq. For purposes of this
subchapter, the term VICIOUS DOG shall mean a dog defined as vicious under 510
ILCS 5/15 or under §
90.004(A).
   (B)   If the existence of a nuisance is established, the owner of such dog
or other animal shall be in violation of this chapter. Furthermore, the court
may enter an order restraining the owner from maintaining such nuisance and may
order that the dog or other animal be humanely dispatched.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/15
§ 90.068 DECLARING VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A) An animal control officer or any adult person may request, under oath,
that a dog be classified as vicious by submitting a sworn, written complaint on
a form approved by the animal control officer. Upon receipt of such complaint,
the officer shall notify the owner of the dog that a complaint has been filed
and that an investigation into the allegations, as set forth in the complaint,
will be conducted. During the investigation:
      (1)   The custody of any dog which is the subject of the investigation
shall not be transferred by its owner to any other person nor shall the place
of maintenance of the dog be changed from its owner’s residence during said
time without the consent of the animal control officer; and
      (2)   In addition, the dog may be ordered impounded by the animal control
officer if he or she has reason to believe that, during the investigation, the
dog will cause an immediate danger to the community if it is not immediately
impounded. The owner may appeal the impoundment order to the Chief of Police at
any time. The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall give the owner a
hearing within three business days of the filing of the appeal.
   (B)   At the conclusion of an investigation, the officer may:
      (1)   Determine that the dog is not vicious and, if the dog is impounded,
waive any impoundment fees incurred and release the dog to its owner; or
      (2)   Determine that the dog is vicious and order that the dog be
humanely destroyed.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013)
§ 90.069 NOTIFICATION OF VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   Within five business days after declaring a dog vicious, the officer
shall give written notice by certified mail to the dog’s owner of the dog’s
designation as vicious and the determination to destroy such dog. The notice
shall inform the owner that he or she may request, in writing, a hearing to
contest the finding and designation within five business days after delivery of
the vicious dog designation notice.
   (B)   The officer shall hold a hearing within ten business days after
receiving the dog owner’s request for such a hearing. The officer shall provide
notice of the date, time, and location of the hearing by regular mail to the
dog owner and the complainant.
   (C)   At a hearing, all interested persons shall be given the opportunity to
present evidence on the issue of the dog’s viciousness. Criteria to be
considered in a hearing required by this section shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Provocation;
      (2)   Severity of attack or injury to a person or domestic animal;
      (3)   Previous aggressive history of the dog;
      (4)   Observable behavior of the dog;
      (5)   Site and circumstances of the incident; and
      (6)   Statements from interested parties.
   (D)   A determination at a hearing that the dog is vicious, pursuant to the
Animal Control Act, being 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq., or under this subchapter, shall
result in an order for the humane destruction of the dog, subject to the
owner’s right to appeal such order to the Circuit Court.
   (E)   If no hearing is requested pursuant to division (A) above, the dog
shall be humanely destroyed.
   (F)   The dog owner shall be responsible for payment of all boarding costs
and other fees as may be required for the city to humanely and safely keep the
animal during any legal proceeding.
   (G)   If the officer or his or her designee orders a dog to be humanely
destroyed, that decision shall be final unless the dog owner applies to a court
of competent jurisdiction for any remedies that may be available within ten
days after receiving notice of the destruction order. If an appeal is timely
filed, the officer shall suspend the destruction order pending the final
determination of the court.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013)
RESTRICTED ANIMALS
§ 90.080 CLASSIFICATION.
   The following animals and all subspecies and hybrids of such animals are
classified as restricted and inherently dangerous animals:
   (A)   All species of orangutans, chimpanzees, gorillas, gibbons, siamangs,
macaques, mandrills, drills, and baboons;
   (B)   All species of wolves, jackals, dingos, maned wolf, red dog, African
hunting dogs, and coyotes;
   (C)   All species of bears and wolverines;
   (D)   All species of hyenas;
   (E)   All species of lions, tigers, jaguars, leopards, cheetahs, cougars,
snow leopards, and all wild cats including, but not limited to, jungle cat,
margay, caracal, serval, lynx, bobcat, clouded leopard, and ocelot;
   (F)   All species of elephants;
   (G)   All species of rhinoceroses, zebra, tapir, and hybrids thereof;
   (H)   All species of hippopotamus;
   (I)   African buffalo, wild Bovidae, and giraffe;
   (J)   Kangaroos, wallabies, and Tasmanian devils; and
   (K)   Reptiles which are poisonous or life-threatening including indigenous,
venomous snakes. For purposes of this division (K), a LIFE THREATENING REPTILE
shall include, without limitation, any member of the crocodilian family and any
constricting snake six feet or greater in length.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013)
§ 90.081 POSSESSION OF RESTRICTED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership, or other
legal entity to import, transfer, sell, purchase, breed, or possess a
restricted animal unless that person, corporation, partnership, or other legal
entity holds a permit or is exempt from holding a permit under this subchapter.
It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership, or other legal
entity to sell, transfer, deliver, or give an animal classified as restricted
to any other person, corporation, partnership, or other legal entity unless the
other person, corporation, partnership, or other legal entity holds a permit or
is exempt from holding a permit under this subchapter.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.082 PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit applicant qualifications. Applicants for a permit to possess a
restricted animal shall meet the minimum qualifications. If the applicant is a
corporation, partnership, or other legal entity, the applicant must designate
an active officer, partner, member, or other person acting on its behalf as
agent to represent the organization and who meets the following minimum
qualifications:
      (1)   Applicant or designee must be at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Applicant or designee must have at least five years of experience
in the care and handling of the animal family for which the applicant is
applying; and
      (3)   Applicant or designee shall not have been convicted of any
violation of any state or federal wildlife regulations within five years of the
date of application or of any offense involving cruelty to animals.
   (B)   Exemptions. Properly maintained and permitted zoological parks,
federally licensed exhibits, circuses, scientific or educational institutions,
individuals offering educational programs to the public on a regular basis,
research laboratories, veterinary hospitals, animal shelters, animal refuges,
and animals specifically trained to assist handicapped persons are exempt from
the permit requirements of this section.
   (C)   Permit application. The applicant shall submit the information set
forth in divisions (C)(1) through (C)(7) below to the Chief of Police for each
permit, permit amendment, or permit renewal. The Chief of Police, at his or her
discretion, may recommend to the City Council that the permit fee be waived.
Any false statements made by an applicant on the permit application will render
such application null and void and subject the applicant to such penalties as
may be provided by law. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   Name, complete address, and telephone number; if the applicant is a
corporation, partnership, or other legal entity, the agent designated to
represent the organization shall also provide such information. The applicant,
permittee, or designee must notify the Chief of Police, in writing, of any
change of address or name within seven days of such change;
      (2)   Location where the restricted animal(s) will be housed. Facilities
for holding permitted restricted animal(s) must be located on the premises on
which the permittee resides or shall have a full-time caretaker to supervise
the care and security of the facilities;
      (3)   Current animal inventory including the common and scientific name,
sex, age, and source of each animal; any permanent identification on the
animal; and identification of animals that have injured and/or killed a human
being. The permittee must notify the Chief of Police within 24 hours of the
addition, removal, or death of a restricted animal listed on the inventory;
      (4)   A copy of the current USDA permits approving the possession of each
species listed on the animal inventory;
      (5)   A signed statement by a veterinarian accredited by the USDA that he
or she is the veterinarian of record and which includes the veterinarian’s
printed name, address, phone number, and license number. The veterinarian shall
certify that he or she has observed each of the applicant’s animal(s) at least
once during the prior year and that they have been appropriately immunized,
housed, and cared for;
      (6)   A plan for a quick and safe recapture of the animals(s) or, if
recapture is impossible, for the destruction of any animal held under the
permit; and
      (7)   A plan for the emergency evacuation of the facility holding the
restricted animal(s), to be updated within 30 days of any structural changes to
the facility.
   (D)   Permit fee.
      (1)   The permit application, amendment, and renewal fee is $1,000.
      (2)   Permit fees shall be held by the city and placed in the General
Fund for the care and housing of restricted animals that are impounded under
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   Term of permit. Permits issued by the Chief of Police under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be valid for a term of one year from the
date of issue unless the permit has been revoked for violations of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013)
§ 90.083 FACILITY INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Before any permit is issued by the Chief of Police for the possession
of a restricted animal, an inspection of all animal facilities and records
related to such animal shall be conducted by the animal control officer for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with the regulations of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person, corporation, partnership, or other legal entity possessing
an animal restricted under this subchapter shall, during normal business hours
and at all reasonable times, allow the animal control officer to inspect all
animals, facilities, and records relating to such animals for the purpose of
ensuring compliance with the regulations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013)
§ 90.084 ANIMAL IDENTIFICATION; RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   Each permitted restricted animal shall be individually identified by
the use of an injectable microchip. Owners may request approval to implant the
microchip when the animal is next placed under anesthesia or sedation.
   (B)   The permittee shall maintain a written log for each restricted animal
in their possession which documents each animal’s health care.
   (C)   The permittee shall provide and maintain all documentation required by
this provision, including all health records for at least three years from the
date issued.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.085 DISEASE TESTING FOR PRIMATES.
   All primates shall be TB-tested by a licensed veterinarian. All medical
records and results of such testing shall be maintained by a permittee and made
available for inspection by animal control personnel. Any test results
indicating a positive reaction to a TB (tuberculosis) test must be reported
immediately to the State Department of Agriculture, the County Health
Department, and the City Animal Control Officer.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.086 CARE REQUIREMENTS FOR RESTRICTED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person, corporation, partnership, or other legal entity shall
maintain any restricted animal(s) in captivity in any unsanitary or unsafe
condition or in a manner which results in the maltreatment or neglect of such
animal(s) nor shall any species of animal be confined in any cage or enclosure
which is inadequate for that species.
   (B)   Drinking water shall be provided, at all times, in clean containers or
as required to maintain the health of the animal. Pools shall be cleaned as
needed to ensure good water quality. Enclosures shall provide adequate drainage
of surface water.
   (C)   Animals shall be fed at least once per day or as directed by a
veterinarian. Food provided shall be unspoiled and not contaminated. It shall
be of a type and quantity sufficient to meet the nutritional requirements of
the animal(s) to which it is provided.
   (D)   Fecal and food waste shall be removed from cages daily and stored or
disposed of in a manner which prevents noxious odors or insect infestation.
Hard floors shall be scrubbed and disinfected weekly.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013)
§ 90.087 ESCAPE AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   The permittee shall immediately notify the animal control officer of
any escape of a restricted animal.
   (B)   The permittee shall be liable for any costs resulting from the escape
of a restricted animal.
   (C)   The city and its agents, officers, and employees shall not be liable
to the owner of any restricted animal that expires or is injured or destroyed
during recapture, and the owner shall indemnify and hold harmless the city from
any liability for damage or injury caused by a restricted animal held under a
permit issued pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.088 SEIZURE AND DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Seizure.
      (1)   The animal control officer or any law enforcement agency may take
possession of a restricted animal and all equipment and vehicles necessary for
the impoundment of the animal, upon a violation of this subchapter, which
endangers the health, safety, or welfare of the public or the animal.
      (2)   An owner of a restricted animal shall be liable for any and all
costs incurred by the seizure and impoundment of a restricted animal.
      (3)   The owner of the restricted animal, if the owner can be found upon
a reasonably diligent search, shall be given written notice of the reasons for
the seizure, the location where the animal will be housed, and the owner’s
liability for the costs of the shelter and care of the animal. If the owner
cannot be found after a reasonable search, a notice shall be posted on the
property from which the animal was seized. If the identity and address of the
owner is later determined, the notice shall immediately be delivered to the
owner by certified letter.
      (4)   Upon proof of notification, the Chief of Police may seek a court
order that the restricted animal be placed in a suitable facility or humanely
destroyed if no agreement regarding disposition of the animal can be reached
with the owner in a reasonable period of time.
   (B)   Disposition.
      (1)   The Chief of Police may allow owners of un-permitted restricted
animals who do not qualify for a permit to possess the animal or whose permit
is revoked for violating the provisions of this subchapter to transfer the
animal to a permitted or approved recipient.
      (2)   The owner of un-permitted restricted animals shall notify the Chief
of Police prior to said transfer taking place.
      (3)   Each day of possession of the un-permitted restricted animal shall
constitute a separate violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating, disobeying, neglecting, or refusing to comply
with or resisting enforcement of sections §§
90.065,
90.067, or
90.068 shall be fined not less than $200 for each offense. Persons violating
any other section of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of no less than
$20.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties and remedies specified in §§
90.080 through
90.088 and such other remedies as may be provided at law or in equity, any
person, corporation, partnership, or other entity found in violation of any
provision of these sections shall be subject to the general fines and penalties
set forth in division (A) above.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2013-2014), passed 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Salvaged property
   
91.02   City fire call revenue
   
91.03   Open burning of business trash
Department and Officials; Equipment
   
91.15   Establishment of the Fire Department
   
91.16   Fire Marshal
   
91.17   Appointive assistants
   
91.18   Use of equipment
   
91.19   Obstructing firefighters or fire trucks
Fire Limits
   
91.30   Fire limits established
   
91.31   External fire and rescue calls
   
91.32   Building construction within fire limits
   
91.33   Health and Safety Committee approval
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 SALVAGED PROPERTY.
   No person shall be permitted to remove or take away any property in the
possession of the Fire Department, saved from any fire, until proof of the
ownership thereof shall have been made to the satisfaction of the Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 1, § 6) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 CITY FIRE CALL REVENUE.
   All city revenue from fire calls of the City Fire Department shall be
segregated by the City Clerk into a Fire Truck Purchase Fund until otherwise
resolved by the City Council, and the use of such funds shall be restricted to
the purchase of a fire truck for the city.
(Ord. 3 (Series 2009-2010), passed 5-18-2009)
§ 91.03 OPEN BURNING OF BUSINESS TRASH.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS. Any enterprise for pecuniary profit.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 3, § 3)
      BUSINESS TRASH. Any trash, garbage, litter, or other waste material of
any kind or character from a business.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 3, § 1)
      OPEN BURNING . Any burning of any material in the atmosphere other than
for purposes of heating a building or for other heating purposes utilizing a
stove or furnace, when said burning is without a permit as hereinafter
provided.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 3, § 2)
   (B)   Open burning permit acquired. Any person, firm, or corporation
desiring to engage in open burning, as herein defined, within the city shall
apply to the Open Burning Permit Committee of the City Volunteer Fire
Department for a permit to engage in open burning.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 3, § 5)
   (C)   Open Burning Permit Committee. The Fire Chief of the City Volunteer
Fire Department is hereby authorized and empowered and directed to designate
three other persons who are members of the Volunteer Fire Department to serve
along with said Fire Chief as the Open Burning Permit Committee. Whenever any
application for an open burning permit is received by the Fire Chief, he or she
and the Committee shall examine the open burning facility proposed to be
utilized for open burning with a view to ensuring that said facility can be
utilized for open burning in a safe and reasonable manner, giving consideration
to the danger of fire. If the four members of the Open Burning Permit Committee
determine, by a majority vote, that a permit should issue for any open burning
facility, the Fire Chief shall issue such an open burning permit, in writing,
to the applicant, same to be sealed by the City Clerk, said permit to
adequately describe the applicant, the location of the facility, and the
facility itself.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 3, § 6)
   (D)   Permits, duration. Any permit issued pursuant to this section shall
remain in effect only so long as the open burning facility is maintained in its
original condition at the time of issuance of the permit. If, at any time, the
Open Burning Permit Committee determines that a facility is not being properly
maintained or that a facility constitutes a reasonable threat to the security
of the area, a permit may be revoked by written notice to the holder thereof,
after which it shall be null and void.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 3, § 7)
Penalty, see §
91.99
DEPARTMENT AND OFFICIALS; EQUIPMENT
§ 91.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby established a sub-department of municipal government of the
city which shall be known as the Fire Department and shall embrace one Fire
Marshal and 29 assistants.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 1, § 1) (Ord. 16 (Series 1992-1993), passed 1-
4-1993)
§ 91.16 FIRE MARSHAL.
   (A)   Fire Marshal. The Fire Marshal shall hold his or her office for the
term of one year or until his or her successor shall be elected and qualified.
He or she shall be elected at the first meeting of the Council in the month of
May of each year or as soon thereafter as may be practicable.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 1, § 2)
   (B)   Security bond. The Fire Marshal shall, before entering office, take
and subscribe the oath required of other officers and file same with the City
Clerk and shall also execute a bond to the city in the penal sum of $1,000,
with surety to be approved by the Council, and conditions of said bond to be
the same as in the case of other city officers; and further, he or she will
properly care for and turn over to his or her successor in office the
machinery, fire apparatus, and other property of said city committed to his or
her care in as good condition as when received by him or her, ordinary wear and
tear and inevitable accident excepted.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 1, § 3)
   (C)   Salary of Fire Marshal. The salary of a Fire Marshal shall be the sum
of $___ per annum, payable monthly. Each of the other members of the Fire
Department shall receive the sum of $___ for each fire and $___ for each fire
drill at which they are present, as shown by the Fire Marshal’s report, to be
paid monthly. There shall not be more than __ drills every month and the number
of fire drills per year, and the date of the drills are to be at the discretion
of the Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 1, § 9)
(Ord. 12 (Series 1957-1976), passed - -)
§ 91.17 APPOINTIVE ASSISTANTS.
   The 29 assistants of said Fire Department shall be appointed by the Fire
Marshal, and each of them shall be under his or her direction and control,
subject, at all times, to the orders and direction of the Health and Safety
Committee; said Fire Marshal shall possess full power and authority over his or
her organization, government, and discipline and may establish such rules and
regulations for the government and control of the Department as he or she may
deem best, with full power and authority to enforce such rules and regulations
when established. He or she shall have general supervision over the fire
apparatus, including all those carts, trucks, ladders, and other appliances
belonging thereto, and it shall be his or her duty to see that the same shall
be kept, at all times, in good order and ready for immediate use.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 1, § 4)
§ 91.18 USE OF EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall, without obtaining consent of the Council or the Health and
Safety Committee, use any hose or other fire apparatus belonging to the city
for any private purpose whatever, and then, only under the direction of the
Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 1, § 5) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 OBSTRUCTING FIREFIGHTERS OR FIRE TRUCKS.
   (A)   Obstruction of duty. No person shall willfully resist, obstruct, or
hinder any member of the Fire Department in the performance of his or her duty
at a fire or shall willfully or maliciously injure, break, or deface any engine
hose, carriage, or fire apparatus belonging to the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 1, § 7)
   (B)   Obstruction of fire truck. No person not a member of the Fire
Department or the Health and Safety Committee shall jump upon or be upon any
fire truck, hose reel, carriage, or fire apparatus belonging to the city when
the same shall be going to or returning from a fire unless expressly requested
to do so by the Fire Marshal or, in his or her absence, by the Acting Fire
Marshal. No person driving any car, automobile, wagon, carriage, or other
vehicle shall get on the street in front of any fire apparatus when said
apparatus is on its way to a fire in answer to any fire alarm or fire call, and
the driver of any of the vehicles above described, finding himself or herself
in such a position shall immediately withdraw to the side of the street, giving
any apparatus of the Fire Department a clear right-of-way on the street or
alley in the direction in which said apparatus shall be going.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 1, § 8) Penalty, see §
91.99
FIRE LIMITS
§ 91.30 FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   All that part of the city embraced within the following limits shall, until
otherwise provided, be known as the fire limits of said city: commencing at the
intersection of Oak and 9th Streets in said city, thence easterly along the
center line of said Oak Street to the center line of 13th Street, thence
southerly along the center line of 13th Street to the center line of Broadway,
thence westerly along the center line of Broadway to its intersection with the
center line of 12th Street, thence southerly along the center line of said 12th
Street to its intersection with the center line of Walnut Street, thence
westerly along the center line of Walnut Street to its intersection with the
center line of 9th Street, and thence northerly along the center line of said
9th Street to the place of beginning.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 2, § 1)
§ 91.31 EXTERNAL FIRE AND RESCUE CALLS.
   (A)   The City Volunteer Fire Department is authorized to answer fire and
rescue calls within the state for a distance of 15 miles from the city limits
of the city, unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   For such calls, the owners of the property or the person involved in a
fire or rescue call shall be charged as follows:
      (1)   Truck charge. A separate charge of $500 for the first truck on the
scene, an additional $400 for the second truck on the scene, and an additional
$100 for the third truck on the scene; and
      (2)   Hourly charge. In addition to the truck charge provided in division
(B)(1) above, an additional charge of $300 per hour for each hour or part
thereof that the City Fire Department is on the scene after the first hour.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 2, § 1B) (Ord. 7 (Series 1996-1997), passed 9-
3-1996; Ord. 9 (Series 2008-2009), passed 8-18-2008)
§ 91.32 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   Ironclad buildings. No wooden building or other building, the walls of
which are covered by iron or other material, commonly known as IRONCLAD
BUILDINGS, shall be constructed within that part of the fire limits above
indicated between the north side of the alley running east and west between
Broadway and Oak Streets and the south side of the alley running east and west
between Broadway and Walnut Streets nor shall any wooden building now within
the said fire limits that may become damaged by fire or storm be repaired with
combustible material when said damage, in the opinion of the Council, shall
amount to more than 50% of the building at the time of such damage; provided,
nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the erection of a frame
building, the outside of which shall be veneered with brick or covered with
stucco.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 2, § 2)
   (B)   Exception to prohibition of fire limits. Notwithstanding the
prohibition contained in division (A) above, said provision shall not be a
prohibition to the construction of any ironclad building so long as no part of
the structure proposed to be constructed is closer than 40 feet to the nearest
property line of the nearest contiguous, adjacent, or closest lot owner, said
measurement to include only that portion of the distance included on the
construction applicant’s property and any contiguous streets, alleys, or other
public grounds.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 2, § 2A)
(Ord. 14A (Series 1987-1988), passed 3-21-1988) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33 HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE APPROVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to begin the erection of any building within the herein
described fire limits without first receiving a written permit from the Health
and Safety Committee of said city, said permit to be issued on the instruction
of the City Council.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 2, § 3) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
91.01, 91.04,
91.15 through
91.17, and
91.30 through
91.33 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 3, § 8)
   (C)   There shall be a penalty of not less than $3 nor more than $25 for
each offense of §
91.18.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 1, § 5)
   (D)   Violations of §
91.19 shall, on conviction in either case, result in a fine of not less than $5
nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 1, § 7)
   (E)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of §§
91.30 through
91.33 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $20 nor more than
$200 for each offense and shall be subject to a further fine of $20 for every
day each or any violation of §§
91.30 through
91.33 shall continue after conviction.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 2, § 4)
   (F)   It is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor for any person, firm, or
corporation to engage in the open burning of business trash within the city
without an open burning permit, as described in § 91.04, when such material
comes from a business.
(Prior Code, Chapter 19, Article 3, § 4)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Enumerated nuisances
   
92.02   State law
   
92.03   Notice to owner
   
92.04   Stock running at large
Weeds
   
92.15   Definition
   
92.16   Weed height
   
92.17   Failure to cut
   
92.18   Lien
   
92.19   Written notice
Disposal of Leaves, Brush, and Vegetative Matter
   
92.30   Vegetative waste disposal site
   
92.31   Definition
   
92.32   Disposal of matter
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ENUMERATED NUISANCES.
   (A)   Enumeration. Within the territorial jurisdiction of said city, it is
hereby declared to be a nuisance for any person or persons or corporation:
      (1)   Smell. To so negligently conduct any business or use any premises
as to create such an offensive smell as may taint the air and render it
unwholesome or disagreeable to other persons;
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 1)
      (2)   Dead animals. To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal, offal,
filth, or noisome substance to be collected, deposited, or remain in any place
to the prejudice of other persons;
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 2)
      (3)   Streets and alleys. To throw or deposit any offal or other
offensive matter or the ceraceous of any animal in any watercourse, pond,
spring, well, or common sewer, street, alley, or public highway;
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 3)
      (4)   Public grounds. To deposit any ashes, offal, dirt, garbage, or any
offensive matter upon any street, alley, or public ground;
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 4)
      (5)   Water. To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water of any
spring, river, stream, pond, or lake to the injury or prejudice of others;
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 5)
      (6)   Drainage. To obstruct or impede, without legal authority, the
passage of any culvert, sewer, cesspool, or the natural drainage of any public
or private property;
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 6)
      (7)   Obstruction of way. To obstruct or encroach upon public highways,
private ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places, and ways to burying
places;
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 7)
      (8)   Sidewalks. To spit upon any sidewalk;
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 8)
      (9)   Putrefiable matter. To permit or suffer any offal, filth, refuse,
or animal or vegetable matter which is liable to become putrid or offensive or
injurious to health to remain on any premises used or occupied by him, her, or
them for a longer period than 24 hours at one time;
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 9)
      (10)   Condition of property. To keep or suffer to be kept in a foul,
offensive, nauseous, or filthy condition or any railroad car, building, yard,
cellar, barn, sewer, pigsty, or privy;
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 10)
      (11)   Cattle and swine. To own, keep, or use any railroad car, pen,
place, or premises in or upon which cattle or swine shall be confined or kept
so as to be offensive to persons residing in the vicinity of the same;
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 11)
      (12)    Noxious exhalations. To erect, continue, or use any building or
other place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture which, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, offensive smells, or otherwise, is offensive
or dangerous to the health of individuals or of the public;
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 12)
      (13)   Dilapidation and obnoxious growth. For the owner or keeper of any
lot or premises to suffer to remain thereon, to the annoyance and detriment of
other persons, a dilapidated building liable to fall or take fire, and which,
by reason of its proximity to the contiguous or adjacent buildings and premises
of other persons, does endanger their life or property;
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 13)
      (14)   Obnoxious growth. Being the owner or in possession or in control
of any premises, to permit thereon the presence of brush, weeds, dead or dying
trees, stumps, roots, obnoxious growth, filth, garbage, trash, inoperative or
unused chattel property, and debris;
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 13A)
      (15)   Stagnant water. For the owner or keeper of any lot or premises to
suffer to stand or remain thereon water which is or may become stagnant, foul,
and offensive as well as detrimental to the health and comfort of persons
residing in the neighborhood thereof; and
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 14)
      (16)   Butchering. To erect or use habitually any house or lot within the
city limits for the purpose of butchering or slaughtering cattle, calves,
sheep, or swine without permission granted by the City Council.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 15)
   (B)   Weeds. The presence of weeds and/or other plants (excluding, however,
domesticated plants, shrubs, or trees and all plants or grasses less than 12
inches in height) upon lands located within the corporate limits of the city
are declared to constitute a nuisance.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 18)
   (C)   Burning of household garbage or waste. For purposes of this section,
GARBAGE or HOUSEHOLD WASTE means all solid waste and refuse products or
materials generated by any household including, but not limited to, materials
generated as a result of cooking, cleaning, and all other household activities;
however, the meaning of GARBAGE and HOUSEHOLD WASTE shall specifically not
include paper, cardboard, leaves, or brush.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 21)
   (D)   Burning of trash.
      (1)   TRASH is, for purposes of this division (D), hereby defined as any
litter, paper, cardboard, or other waste material of any kind or character,
except garbage or household waste, as defined in division (C) above.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation burning trash between the hours of
6:30 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. shall burn said trash in a suitable container with a
wire mesh or screen top thereon.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 22)
   (E)   Covering of wells and cisterns. It shall be unlawful, within the city,
to allow any well or cistern to remain open or uncovered or to remain without a
cover adequate to prevent persons from falling therein, pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/
11-20-10.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 23)
(Ord. 2 (Series 1977-1978), passed - -; Ord. 9 (Series 1979-1980), passed - -
) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-10
§ 92.02 STATE LAW.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent the municipal
authorities of the city from declaring what shall be nuisances and abating the
same within their limits, and all nuisances not defined by or provided for in
this chapter but which are known to and provided for by the statutes of this
state are hereby declared to be nuisances and may be proceeded against under
provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 16)
§ 92.03 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   The said city, at its election and upon five days’ notice by U.S. mail to
the owner of the lands involved, may go upon such lands and abate such nuisance
and, upon abatement, shall be entitled to recover of the owner the reasonable
costs of abatement, together with the costs of collecting the same, and to
facilitate such collection, the said city may, at its election, avail itself of
the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-23.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 20)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 24 ILCS 23-113
§ 92.04 STOCK RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Pound Master. The Chief of Police is hereby declared to be the Pound
Master of said city, and it shall be his or her duty as such Pound Master to
impound any and all domestic animals of the species of horse, mule, ass,
cattle, sheep, swine, goose, or goat which shall be at large within the
corporate limits of said city, either upon his or her own initiative or upon
complaint being made to him or her, and such duties shall also be incumbent
upon any other members of the Police Department of the city.
   (B)   Notice of impounding. The Chief of Police or his or her deputies, as
the case may be, shall impound such animal or animals as are referred to in
division (C) below, at some convenient pound or enclosure and shall give notice
to the owner thereof, if known, immediately or, if such owner is unknown, shall
post three notices of such impounding in three of the most public places in
said city and shall also publish a notice in the official newspaper of said
city.
   (C)   Reclamation. The owner of such animal may then reclaim his or her
property by paying to the Chief of Police or other officer impounding the same
the sum of $1 plus the reasonable costs and expenses of impounding and caring
for such animal and giving notice of such impounding.
   (D)   Disposal. If, within ten days after the posting of such notices and
the publication of such notice in the official newspaper as aforesaid, no owner
has paid the costs and expenses of such impounding and publication, then said
animal or animals shall be forfeited to the city to be disposed of as the
Council directs.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 2) Penalty, see §
92.99
WEEDS
§ 92.15 DEFINITION.
   WEEDS, as used in this subchapter, shall include all plants listed in
Exhibits A-1 through A-8 attached to the ordinance adopted herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 3, § 1) (Ord. 8 (Series 1989-1990), passed 10-
2-1989)
§ 92.16 WEED HEIGHT.
   It is hereby declared to be illegal for the owners of real estate to refuse
or neglect to cut weeds when such weeds shall have reached a height in excess
of 12 inches.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 3, § 2) (Ord. 8 (Series 1989-1990), passed 10-
2-1989) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 FAILURE TO CUT.
   Every owner of real estate within the city shall cut weeds on his or her
property at all such times as may be necessary so that such shall not exceed 12
inches in height, and if said owner neglects or refuses to cut weeds so that
such weeds shall exceed 12 inches in height, the city may cut the weeds or
authorize some person to cut the weeds at the expense of the property owner,
pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-20-1 et seq., on behalf of the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 3, § 3) (Ord. 8 (Series 1989-1990), passed 10-
2-1989)
§ 92.18 LIEN.
   (A)   If weeds are cut by the city or by someone directed to cut them on
behalf of the city, a notice of lien, in the form of Exhibit “B” attached to
the ordinance adopted herein, of the cost and expense thereof incurred by the
city shall be recorded in the following manner: the municipality or the person
performing the service by authority of the city, in its or his or her own name,
may file notice of lien in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds.
   (B)   The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
city and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is incurred.
   (C)   Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice of lien has been
filed, the lien shall be released by the city or person in whose name the lien
has been filed, and the release, in the form of Exhibit “C” attached to the
ordinance adopted herein, shall be filed of record in the same manner as filing
notice of the said lien.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 3, § 4) (Ord. 8 (Series 1989-1990), passed 10-
2-1989)
§ 92.19 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   Prior to the city cutting weeds on private property where the city intends
to take a lien, the City Clerk shall give 30 days’ written notice to the
persons listed as owner or taxpayer on the records of the County Treasurer.
This subchapter shall be published in pamphlet form by authority of the
corporate authorities of the city in accordance with statute.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 3, § 4A) (Ord. 8 (Series 1993-1994), passed 1-
3-1994)
DISPOSAL OF LEAVES, BRUSH, AND VEGETATIVE MATTER
§ 92.30 VEGETATIVE WASTE DISPOSAL SITE.
   (A)   Vegetative Waste Disposal Site (VWDS). The area at 260 N. 2nd Street,
Hamilton, Illinois, is hereby designated the Vegetative Waste Disposal Site
(VWDS) for vegetative matter by the citizens of the city for utilization to
dispose of vegetative matter originating on residents’ properties and business
properties and other properties situated within the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 4, § 1)
   (B)   Hours of operation. The VWDS shall be open from 7:00 a.m. until 4:00
p.m. on weekdays and from 7:00 a.m. until 2:00 p.m. on Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 4, § 2)
   (C)   Persons authorized to use disposal site. Only residents of the city or
businesses situated within the city or persons owning property within the city
are authorized to utilize the VWDS and to dump vegetative matter at said
disposal site during the hours stated in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 4, § 3)
   (D)   Matter that may be dumped. Only vegetative matter originating on real
estate situated within the city may be dumped at the VWDS.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 4, § 4)
(Ord. 5 (Series 1995-1996), passed 8-7-1995) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.31 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, VEGETATIVE MATTER shall include leaves,
brush, branches, trees, weeds, grass, and other vegetative material grown or
growing upon real estate situated with the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 4, § 5) (Ord. 5 (Series 1995-1996), passed 8-7-
1995)
§ 92.32 DISPOSAL OF MATTER.
   (A)   Matter prohibited for disposal. It is expressly prohibited to dispose
of any material other than vegetative matter, as designated in this subchapter,
at the VWDS, and any depositing of garbage, trash, or other materials not
within the definition of vegetative matter shall be unlawful and shall be a
violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 4, § 6)
   (B)   Disposal for hire. Any person disposing of vegetative matter for hire
is expressly prohibited from utilizing the area designated in §
92.30(A) hereof or disposing of any vegetative matter on the area designated in
§
92.30(A).
   (C)   Time of disposal. Disposing of vegetative matter at the VWDS shall
only be during the time the site is open as designated by this subchapter, and
it shall be a violation of this subchapter for any other person to deposit any
vegetative matter at the VWDS at any time other than as designated in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 4, § 7)   
(Ord. 5 (Series 1995-1996), passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 9 (Series 2000-2001), passed
10-2-2000) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any clause or section of this chapter shall be fined
not less than $3 nor more than $100, and if any such person or corporation
shall continue a nuisance after being fined for the same, a new cause of action
shall immediately accrue against such person or corporation, subjecting the
offender to a like penalty aforesaid, and so on, after rendition of each fine,
the continuance of such nuisance shall be deemed a new cause of action,
subjecting the offender to a like penalty as aforesaid; provided, the offender
shall, in every case, under this chapter, be notified by some executive officer
of said city, to remove or abate any such nuisance and be allowed a reasonable
time to be fixed by such officer in such notice, according to the nature of
such nuisance, to so remove and abate the same and, upon so doing within the
time fixed by such officer, the offender shall not be subject to the fine
aforesaid, unless the commission of such nuisance was willful or resulted in
actual damage to the person or property of some person or corporation.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 17)
   (B)   Any owner or occupant of any premises who permits or suffers the
existence of a nuisance shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not
less than $10 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 18)
   (C)   Each day on which such nuisance is in existence shall be deemed a new
violation of this chapter and subject to a distinct and separate charge of
violation hereunder and, upon conviction, to a fine therefore.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 19)
   (D)   (1)   The burning of garbage and household waste other than paper and
cardboard within the city limits, in violation of §
92.01(C), is prohibited, and any person violating this prohibition or causing,
suffering, or allowing a violation shall upon conviction be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
      (2)   Upon conviction of a violation, the violator shall be subject to a
fine of not less than $50 and not more than $500. If the evidence establishes
that the Fire Department was called in connection with the violation and that
it was necessary for the Fire Department to respond to the call upon which the
violation was based, the fine shall be no less than $300.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 21)
   (E)   (1)   It is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor for any person, firm,
or corporation to engage in the burning of trash within the city, in violation
of §
92.01(D), between the hours of 6:30 p.m. and 6:30 a.m.
      (2)   Upon conviction of a violation of §
92.01(D), the violator shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 and not
more than $500. If the evidence establishes that the Fire Department was called
in connection with the violation and that it was necessary for the Fire
Department to respond to the call upon which the violation was based, the fine
shall be no less than $300.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 22)
   (F)   Persons convicted of violating §
92.01(E) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each and
every day said condition exists.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 1, § 23)
   (G)   The running at large of such animal of the species and class as are
designated in the §
92.04(A) is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and any person who negligently,
willfully, and wantonly permits such animals to run at large shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and subject to punishment as in the case of other misdemeanors.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 2)
   (H)   Any person disposing of vegetative matter at the City of Hamilton’s
VWDS in violation of §§
92.30 through
92.32 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $250 nor more than $500 for
each such violation.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Article 4, § 8)
(Ord. 5 (Series 1995-1996), passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 17 (Series 1997-1998), passed
4-20-1998)
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Abandoned motor vehicles
Motor Vehicles on Private Property
   
93.15   Definitions
   
93.16   Storage of inoperable or unlicensed vehicles
   
93.17   Storage of vehicle parts
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE. All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
      ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle 25 years of age or
older.
   (B)   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part
thereof on any highway in this municipality is unlawful and subject to
penalties as set forth herein. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other
vehicle or any part thereof on private or public property, other than a
highway, in view of the general public anywhere in this municipality is
unlawful except on property of the owner or bailee of such abandoned vehicle. A
motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on private
property may be authorized for removal by or upon the order of the Chief of the
Police Department of the municipality, after a waiting period of seven days or
more has expired.
      HIGHWAY. Any street, alley, or public way within the City of Hamilton.
   (C)   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this
state, not the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the
Municipal Police Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of
the municipality. Upon receipt of such notification, the Chief of the Municipal
Police Department shall authorize a towing service to remove and take
possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle. The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents
and maintain a record of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or
any other person legally entitled to possession thereof or until it is disposed
of as provided in this section.
   (D)   (1) When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in
this municipality for ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department of this municipality.
      (2)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned, or partially
dismantled motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because
of its position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is
causing the impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a
towing service may be authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department
of this municipality.
      (3)   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department, the owner of the
vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs.
   (E)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away,
the Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s trade name,
manufacturer’s series name, body style, vehicle identification number, and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also
include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing, and the name of the officer authorizing the tow.
   (F)   (1)   When the Municipal Police Department does not know the identity
of the registered owner or other legally entitled person, they will cause the
motor vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by a directed
communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information.
      (2)   The Police Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of
the state police to be searched by a directed communication to the state police
for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. when the state police files
are searched with negative results, the information contained in the National
Crime Information Center (NCIC) files will be searched by the state police. The
information determined from these record searches will be used by the Police
Department in sending a notification, by certified mail, to the owner or
legally entitled person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a
disposition be made and setting forth public sale information.
   (G)   (1)   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to
the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from
the registration files of this state or from the registration files of a
foreign state, if applicable, the Police Department shall notify the state
police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle’s owner or other person
legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
      (2)   The information obtained by the state police will be immediately
forwarded to the law enforcement agency having custody of the vehicle for
notification of owner.
   (H)   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public
sale or disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally
entitled to its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police
Department proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the
vehicle. No vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this
section until all towing and storage charges have been paid.
   (I)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle, seven years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a period of 30
days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police Department
having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public sale to
the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in
a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the premises
where the vehicle has been impounded.
      (1)   At least ten days prior to the sale, the Police Department shall
cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by certified mail
to the registered owner or other person known by the Police Department or
towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Such
notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be sold and what
steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
      (2)   In those instances where the certified notification specified
herein has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due
to the addressee having moved or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required.
   (J)   (1)   When the identity of the registered owner or other person
legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost, or unclaimed vehicle
of seven years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for
in this section, the vehicle may be sold, as provided herein, or disposed of in
the manner authorized by this section without notice to the registered owner or
other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
      (2)   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is
impounded, as specified by this section, it will be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten days for the purposes of determining ownership, the contacting
of the registered owner by the U.S. mail (public service or in person) and for
a determination of disposition and an examination of the state police’s stolen
motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the expiration of the
ten-day period, without the benefit of disposition information being received
from the registered owner, the Chief of Police will authorize the disposal of
the vehicle as junk only.
      (3)   A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle
is excluded from this section.
   (K)   When a vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police
Department is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled
person or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as
provided in this section, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the
Police Department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or
disposal.
   (L)   When a motor vehicle located within the corporate limits of this
municipality is authorized to be towed away by the Chief of Police and disposed
of, as set forth in this section, the proceeds of the public sale or
disposition (after the deduction of towing, storage, and processing charges)
shall be deposited in the municipal treasury.
   (M)   Any police officer, towing service, owner, operator, or employee shall
not be held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the
registered owner, former registered owner, or his or her legal representative
or any other person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or
other vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as
provided by this section.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 53) (Ord. 4 (Series 1970-197), passed - -
) Penalty, see §
93.99
MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 93.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPONENT PARTS. Any component parts of a motor vehicle less than the entire
vehicle.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle from which the engine, wheels,
or other parts have been removed or on which the engine, wheels, or other parts
have been altered, damaged, or otherwise as treated that the vehicle is
incapable of being driven under its own motor power, whether or not licensed.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, including tractors,
dozers, machinery, and equipment, except for vehicles moved solely by human
power and motorized wheelchairs.
   UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which does not exhibit a
current, unexpired license or sticker from the State of Illinois or any other
state. UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLE includes automobiles, trucks, and motor or
motorized cycles.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person, property, or
material or substance is or may be transported, pushed, or drawn upon land,
except devices moved by human power and devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 2, § 1) (Ord. 4 (Series 1989-1990), passed 6-
19-1989)
§ 93.16 STORAGE OF INOPERABLE OR UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Storage of inoperable vehicles. It shall be unlawful, within the city
limits, to store any inoperable vehicle on private property for a period of
more than seven days unless it is stored within a car port or an enclosed
building.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 2, § 2)
   (B)   Storage of unlicensed vehicles. It shall be unlawful, within the city,
to store any unlicensed motor vehicle on private property for more than seven
days unless it is stored within a car port or an enclosed building.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 2, § 3)
   (C)   Business storage of inoperable and unlicensed vehicles. There is
hereby excepted from the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above and §
93.17, the storage of any inoperable or unlicensed motor vehicle or component
parts on private property in connection with the operation of any lawfully
operated business, which said business is operated in compliance with all of
the ordinances of the city and which requires such storage as an integral part
of said business.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 2, § 5)
(Ord. 4 (Series 1989-1990), passed 6-19-1989) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 STORAGE OF VEHICLE PARTS.
   It shall be unlawful, within the city, to store any motor vehicle component
parts on private property for a period of more than seven days unless they are
stored within an enclosed building.   
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 2, § 4) (Ord. 4 (Series 1989-1990), passed 6-
19-1989) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
93.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined an amount not exceeding $500. Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable hereunder as such.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 53)
   (C)   Any violation of §§
93.15 through
93.17 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500
for each offense. Each day that the violation occurs shall be considered a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 2, § 6)
(Ord. 4 (Series 1970-1971), passed - -; Ord. 4 (Series 1989-1990), passed 6-19-
1989)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Montebello Access Area n/k/a Ira Smith Access Area restrictions
   
94.02   Hamilton Community Center
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 MONTEBELLO ACCESS AREA N/K/A IRA SMITH ACCESS AREA RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The boat launching ramp at the Montebello Access Area n/k/a Ira Smith
Access Area shall be used only for the purpose of launching boats into the
Mississippi River. Persons launching boats shall promptly move their vehicles
beyond the “No Parking Area” at the ramp after launching their boats.
   (B)   There shall be no parking of motor vehicles or other items or
equipment of any kind with 50 feet of the boat ramp.
   (C)   Swimming in the Mississippi River is prohibited at any point adjacent
to the Montebello Access Area n/k/a Ira Smith Access Area and for a distance of
100 feet westerly into the river.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2006-2007), passed 9-5-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 HAMILTON COMMUNITY CENTER.
   (A)   The City Community Center shall be made available to the public
according to the rules established in this section.
   (B)   The Center shall be made available to the public upon application and
approval by the City Clerk or Clerk’s designee on the form attached.
   (C)   The following rules shall apply to the use of the Center.
      (1)   Upon payment of the appropriate fees and the cleanup/damage deposit
and approval by the City Clerk or Clerk’s designee, the Center shall be
reserved for the applicant’s time and date, as shown in the application.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk or Clerk’s designee to
maintain a calendar showing the dates and times of all events for which an
application has been approved.
      (3)   No reservations shall be registered by the Clerk or Clerk’s
designee until the cleanup/damage deposit has been paid in full.
      (4)   The Clerk or Clerk’s designee shall refund any applicant’s fees,
retaining a $25 service fee upon cancellation in writing, if the cancellation
is delivered to the Clerk or Clerk’s designee 72 hours prior to the reserved
time.
      (5)   Applicants shall deposit a refundable cleanup/damage fee of $75.
This fee shall be refunded to the applicant if the city incurs no cleanup costs
and no damage occurs. Applicants shall be liable for any damage or cleanup cost
including any such cost in excess of the deposit. A city representative must
inspect the Center before and after a rental to inspect for cleanliness and
damage.
      (6)   The Center shall be available during the following hours:
         (a)   Sunday through Thursday: 5:00 a.m. through 10:00 p.m.; and
         (b)   Friday and Saturday 5:00 a.m. through midnight.
      (7)   The Center shall not be used in any manner to disturb the
neighborhood. No loud noise or loud music shall be allowed after 10:00 p.m. on
Sunday through Thursday rentals and midnight on Friday and Saturday rentals.
      (8)   No illegal activities of any kind shall be conducted on the
premises.
      (9)   The premises are open to inspection at any time during any event by
representatives of the city, including the city police.
      (10)   Rental fees for the use of the Center are as follows:
         (a)   For the big hall and kitchen for three hours or less: $75;
         (b)   Per day for the big hall and kitchen: $125; and
         (c)   For the small room and kitchen: $75.
      (11)   The rent and damage deposit must be paid in full when the keys are
picked up at City Hall. The City Council reserves the right to waive the fee.
      (12)   Pursuant to 235 ILCS 5/6-15, no alcoholic liquors shall be sold or
delivered at the Center by any applicant or person attending any event
sponsored by any applicant except that alcoholic liquor may be sold or
delivered by applicants only if the applicants shall provide dram shop
liability in maximum insurance coverage limits so as to save harmless the city
from all financial loss, damage, or harm. Applicants shall indemnify the city
from all such financial loss or harm. Applicants are not authorized, pursuant
to any application, to use the center to sell or deliver any liquor or
alcoholic beverages unless and until an insurance certificate naming the city
as an insured is filed with the City Clerk or Clerk’s designee.
      (13)   City senior citizens may utilize the facility at all times without
charge, except during times reserved for any applicant.
(Ord. 20 (Series 2008-2009), passed 2-2-2008) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/645
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of §
94.01 shall be punishable by a fine of no less that $75 and no more than $500.
(Ord. 4 (Series 2006-2007), passed 9-5-2006)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Declaration of policy
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the state, as expressed in its
constitution and other laws, in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace, and health of all the inhabitants of the city may be ensured, it is
hereby declared the policy of the city to assure equal opportunity to all
residents, regardless of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or physical disability to live in decent, sanitary, healthful,
standard living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city that no owner, lessee, sub-lessee,
assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm, or corporation having the
right to sell, rent, or lease or otherwise control any housing accommodation
and/or real property within the city or any agent of these shall refuse to
sell, rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such
person or persons or discriminate against any person or persons because of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability
in the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental or lease of any
housing accommodation, and/or real property or in the furnishing of facilities
and/or services in connection therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community’s total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Ord. 3 (Series 2001-2002), passed 6-4-2001) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weather-tight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state, and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION. Any difference expressed, in any way, toward
a person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental, or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease, or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, institution, or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives, as security for said loans, a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is
used or occupied, maintained, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied as a
home, residence, or sleeping place of one or more human beings or any real
estate so used, designed, or intended for such use.
   OWNER. Any person or persons who hold legal or equitable title to or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, and/
or agent thereof who, for a fee or other valuable consideration, offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange,
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another or
collects rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure, or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 3 (Series 2001-2002), passed 6-4-2001)
§ 95.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub-lessee,
real estate broker, or salesperson, financial institution, or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability with regard to
the sale, exchange, or rental or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner, or other person or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property in the city:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the city or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection
therewith;
      (2)   To publish or circulate or cause to be published or circulated any
notice, statement, or advertisement or to announce a policy or to use any form
of application for the purchase, lease, rental, or financing of real property
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental, or lease of such real estate which expresses directly or indirectly any
discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed, or disability of any person;
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages, or otherwise obtaining or making available funds
for the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or
maintenance of any housing accommodation and/or real property;
      (4)   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability;
      (5)   To distribute or cause to be distributed written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or disability of persons in the neighborhood;
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood, or area in which the property is located;
      (7)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent, or
otherwise deal with such owner’s housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability; and
      (8)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant.
(Ord. 3 (Series 2001-2002), passed 6-4-2001) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500. Each day
a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. This shall, in no
way, abrogate or impair the right of the city to specifically enforce, by any
legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 3 (Series 2001-2002), passed 6-4-2001)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSES GENERALLY
      
111.   ALCOHOL
      
112.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
      
113.   AMUSEMENT AND LEISURE
      
114.   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Itinerant merchants
   
110.02   License fees from insurance companies
   
110.03   Indemnity bonds from telephone companies
License Application; Provisions
   
110.15   Licenses for business
   
110.16   Registration
   
110.17   License fees
   
110.18   When fees due
   
110.19   License application
   
110.20   Declined applications
   
110.21   Term of license
   
110.22   Delivery of license
   
110.23   License transfer; expiration
   
110.24   Death of licensee
   
110.25   License display
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 ITINERANT MERCHANTS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall act as an itinerant merchant or
transient vendor of goods, wares, or merchandise without first obtaining a
license in the manner hereinafter provided.
   (B)   An ITINERANT MERCHANT OR VENDOR under this section shall be deemed to
be any person, firm, or corporation transiently or temporarily engaged in the
business of selling, bartering, or exchanging or offering for sale, barter, or
exchange any goods, wares, or merchandise in the city and who does not own or
rent by the year and hold a lease for a year or longer on a store, warehouse,
yard, office, office space, show or sale room, or space in the city.
   (C)   Each applicant shall pay to the City Clerk, in advance, a license fee
in the sum of $25 per week for each week said license shall be issued. The
license fee shall authorize a maximum number of five persons to act as an
itinerant merchant or transient vendor of goods, wares, or merchandise under
each such license, and prior to issuing any such license, the City Clerk shall
require each such person acting under any such license to provide photo
identification and shall make a record of the name, address, telephone number,
and driver’s license or social security number of each such person under each
such license.
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the right to revoke said license if he or she is
satisfied that the person, firm, or corporation so licensed is not the proper
and authorized representative of a reliable and responsible business house or
is not himself or herself responsible and reliable, and the Mayor shall have
the right to revoke the said license for any violation of any provision of this
section by the person, firm, or corporation licensed or to refuse to issue such
a license to any person, firm, or corporation which has violated any of the
provisions of this section.
   (E)   None of the provisions of this section shall be held to apply to any
itinerant merchant or transient vendor whose activities in the city constitute
interstate commerce or to persons, firms, or corporations selling or offering
for sale, fruits, vegetables, farm produce, meats, or the produce of their own
farms or to religious or charitable organizations not conducted for pecuniary
profit.
(Ord. 13 (Series 2002-2003), passed 3-3-2003) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 LICENSE FEES FROM INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   (A)   Fire insurance. All corporations, companies, and associations not
incorporated under the laws of this state and which are engaged in the city in
effecting or soliciting fire insurance shall pay to the City Treasurer
annually, upon July 15 of each and every year, a sum equal to 2% of the gross
receipts of premiums received by such corporations, companies, or associations
or their agent or agents for business effected or transacted for fire insurance
within the said city for the year ending July 1 preceding said dates. The sum
named shall be a tax or license fee upon all such corporations, companies, or
associations transacting said business within the said city for the maintenance
and benefit of the Fire Department thereof.
   (B)   Reports. Every person acting as agent or otherwise for or on behalf of
any such corporation, company, or association shall, on or before July 15 of
each and every year, render to the City Clerk a full, just, and true account,
verified by oath, of all the premiums which, during the year ending on the July
1 preceding such report, shall have been received by him or her or any other
persons for him or her on behalf of any such corporation, company, or
association and shall fully and specifically set out in said report the amount
or amounts received as premiums for the fire insurance.
   (C)   Payment of fees. The said agent or agents shall also, at the time of
making of the abovementioned report, pay to the City Clerk the said sum of 2%
upon the gross receipts of such corporations, companies, or associations,
obtained as premiums for effecting fire insurance in the city as is specified
in division (A) above.
   (D)   Delinquent fees. If such account be not rendered on or before the day
herein designated for that purpose or if the abovementioned rates for the said
tax or license fee shall remain unpaid after that day, it shall be unlawful for
any such corporation, company, or association to transact any business of fire
insurance in the said city, until the requirements hereof have been fully
complied with; nevertheless, this provision shall in no way affect the validity
of any risk that may be taken in violation hereof between such corporations,
companies, or associations, and the person so insured.
   (E)   Delinquent reports. If such corporation, company, or association fails
to render the account or report herein designated by the day required by this
section or if the abovementioned rates, as a tax or license fee, shall remain
unpaid after the day designated, July 15, the said city shall recover, in an
action in its name for its use against such corporation, company, or
association so failing to make such report or pay such license fee or tax, the
full amount of the said license fee, which shall be due under the provision
hereof.
   (F)   Fund for fees. Any and all sums so received under the provisions
hereof shall form and constitute a fund to be kept separate by the Treasurer of
said city and paid by him or her to the Secretary of the Fire Department for
the maintenance, use, and benefit of the Fire Department of the said city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article 2) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 INDEMNITY BONDS FROM TELEPHONE COMPANIES.
   (A)   Indemnification of city. It shall be the duty of any person, persons,
company, or corporation maintaining, operating, erecting, or controlling any
telephone system within the city to indemnify said city from all claims for
damages arising or likely to arise from any negligent, unskillful, or improper
construction, maintenance, or operation of any machinery, pipes, wires,
conduits, poles, brackets, or other appliances owned or controlled by such
person, persons, company, or corporation whereby any person or corporation is
injured or any property damaged.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article 3, § 1)
   (B)   Bond. For the purpose of so indemnifying said city, it shall be the
duty of any person, persons, company, or corporation maintaining, operating,
erecting, or controlling any telephone system within said city, as aforesaid,
to enter into bond in the sum of $5,000 with surety to be approved by the
Council. Such bond shall be for a period of five years and shall be renewed at
such time or times as the Council, by resolution or ordinance, may require;
such bond and renewals thereof shall continuously indemnify and hold harmless
said city from all damages and loss occasioned, as aforesaid, during the
existence and binding force thereof. Such bond shall also provide the principal
obligor therein shall comply with any and all ordinances of said city, which
shall be in force at the time the same is entered into or which shall become in
force at any time thereafter, and said principal obligor will conform to all
the terms and conditions of the ordinance granting the privileges to him or her
or it by the city under which he, she, or it operates.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article 3, § 2)
   (C)    Franchise; effect. All telephone companies doing business within said
city or any person, persons, company, or corporation maintaining, operating, or
controlling any telephone system within said city shall comply herewith, and no
franchise hereafter granted by said city to any person, persons, company, or
corporation for the purpose set forth in division (B) above shall take effect
or be in force until after such bond shall be given and approved as herein
provided.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article 3, § 3)
LICENSE APPLICATION; PROVISIONS
§ 110.15 LICENSES FOR BUSINESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be engaged in or carry on any
business, occupation, or pursuit hereinafter mentioned in this subchapter
within the limits of the city without having first obtained a license therefor
in the manner hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article I, § 1) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16 REGISTRATION.
   Every person engaged in any business, occupation, or pursuit required to be
licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall register with the City
Clerk his or her name, residence, occupation, or business and the place where
the latter is or is to be carried on, and in the case of a company or firm, the
names of the persons composing the same shall also be registered.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article I, § 2) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   License fee. Any number of persons doing business in co-partnership at
any one place shall be required to pay but one license fee therefor; provided,
if more than one kind of business or pursuit hereinafter mentioned shall be
conducted or carried on by the same person or firm at the same time, a separate
license fee shall be paid for each, according to the rate prescribed.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article I, § 3)
   (B)   Businesses. There shall be taxed and collected of and from the persons
engaged in or carrying on the different branches of business, occupation, or
pursuits in this section mentioned, respectively, license fees for each year at
the rates following, to-wit:
      (1)   Ball or pin-alley keepers shall pay $10 each alley;
      (2)   Billiard, bagatelle, pool, pin-pool, pigeonhole, and the like table
keepers or proprietors shall pay $15 for each table;
      (3)   Patent medicine vendors, corn doctors, fortune tellers, exhibitors
of natural or artificial curiosities, or any other vendor of goods not herein
otherwise provided for shall pay for license at the rate of $10 per day;
      (4)   Hawkers or peddlers (except farmers and gardeners selling the
produce of their farms or gardens) shall pay $10 for two weeks or less and $15
for one month;
      (5)   Keepers of fruit, candy, and peanut stands on the sidewalks shall
pay $25 per year, unless such stand or stands be situated directly in front of
the proprietor’s regularly established place of business;
      (6)   Keepers of shooting galleries or places for target shooting shall
pay $50 per year;
      (7)   Proprietors and managers of circuses and menageries or other like
shows shall pay $10 for each exhibition;
      (8)   Sideshows with circus or menagerie shall each pay $5 for each
exhibition;
      (9)   (a)   Proprietors or managers of theaters, operas, minstrels,
concerts, dramatic readings, lectures, panoramas, tableaux, and other such
shows or amusements not otherwise provided for shall pay for license at the
rates following:
            1.   When the admission price to any of said shows or amusements is
$0.25 or less, they shall pay $4 for each exhibition;
            2.   When the admission price is more than $0.25 and not to exceed
$0.50, they shall pay $7.50 for the first exhibition and $4 for each exhibition
thereafter; and
            3.   When the admission fee is $0.75 or more, they shall pay $15
for the first exhibition and $10 for each exhibition thereafter.
         (b)   Provided that proprietors or lessees of opera houses or motion
picture theaters may pay a license fee of $25 per annum, in lieu of all
separate license fees for shows or amusements, given in such opera house or
theater during the period of such license; provided further, no license shall
be taken or collected for any such show or entertainment given by societies or
citizens of said city or by persons exclusively for charitable purposes.
      (10)   Minors engaged in door-to-door vending and sales utilizing vending
and sales equipment provided by a not-for-profit corporation shall pay $5.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article I, § 4)
(Ord. 16 (Series 1973-1974), passed - -) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.18 WHEN FEES DUE.
   All license fees, unless otherwise provided by ordinance, shall become due
and payable on May 10 in each and every year or on commencing a business or
occupation upon which a license fee is imposed by ordinance. In the former
case, the license fee shall be reckoned for one entire year, and in the latter
case, it shall be reckoned proportionately from the first day of the month in
which the liability to a license commenced until May 10 next following, and for
all purposes connected with the issue and expiration of any class or kind of
licenses required by any ordinance of the city, it is hereby provided that the
MUNICIPAL YEAR of the city shall begin on May 10 in each and every year.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article I, § 6)
§ 110.19 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring a license for any purpose under the ordinances of said
city shall make a written application therefor to the Mayor, stating his or her
name, the purpose for which the license is desired, for what length of time,
and the place where his or her business or occupation is to be carried on. If
the Mayor shall grant the application, he or she shall so endorse the same,
together with the amount of the license fee fixed by the ordinance in the case.
Upon filing of the application so endorsed with the City Clerk and the payment
of the sum so specified and required, the City Clerk shall issue to the
applicant a license for the purpose and time therein specified.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article I, § 7)
§ 110.20 DECLINED APPLICATIONS.
   If, in any case, the Mayor shall decline to grant an application for license
for any purpose or for the transfer of any license, he or she shall communicate
such application to the Council at the next regular or adjourned meeting
thereof for its action thereon.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article I, § 8)
§ 110.21 TERM OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be granted for a longer term than one year, and all
licenses, unless otherwise provided by ordinance, shall expire on May 9 next
following their issue. Every license shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by
the City Clerk under the corporate seal, and no license shall be valid until
signed as aforesaid nor shall any person be deemed to be licensed until the
same shall have been issued to him or her in due form.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article I, § 9)
§ 110.22 DELIVERY OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be delivered to any person applying therefor until all fees
due from him or her thereon are paid, and no person shall be considered as
licensed, although his or her license may have been issued, until such payment
and the actual delivery of the same.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article I, § 14)
§ 110.23 LICENSE TRANSFER; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Transferability of license. No license shall be assignable or
transferable nor shall any person be authorized to do business or act under
such license but the person to whom it is granted or at any other place than
that specified therein without the consent of the Mayor or Council, to be
certified thereon by the City Clerk, nor shall any license authorize any person
to act under it at more than one place at the same time or at any other time
than is therein specified. Whoever shall violate any provision of this section
shall be deemed to be acting without license and shall be subject to the same
penalty as is prescribed for persons doing business without license.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article I, § 10)
   (B)   Expiration of license. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk, by
notice in writing, to notify all persons whose licenses have expired or who, by
any ordinance of the Council, are required to procure a license for their
business, trade, or occupation and are acting without license. Such notice
shall be given by the Clerk immediately upon the expiration of any license or
as soon as the fact that any person is acting without license shall come to his
or her knowledge. The notice shall be served by the Chief of Police or any
police officer of the city and may be left at the residence or place of
business of the person notified.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article I, § 13)
§ 110.24 DEATH OF LICENSEE.
   In case of the death of any person licensed under ordinance of said city
before the time limited in his or her license shall have expired, his or her
co-partner (if he or she has any) or his or her legal representative may
continue to act under such license for the unexpired term thereof, subject,
however, to the conditions imposed upon the person to whom the same was
originally issued.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article I, § 12)
§ 110.25 LICENSE DISPLAY.
   Every person to whom any license may be issued, under any ordinance of said
city, shall forthwith place and keep the same conspicuously posted in his or
her office or place of business.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article I, § 11) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person failing or neglecting to so place and keep his or her
license shall incur a penalty of not less than $3 nor more than $25.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article I, § 11)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOL
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Classes of license
   
111.03   Number of licenses
   
111.04   Class E regulations
   
111.05   Presence of minors
   
111.06   Transfer of open liquor
Obtaining Licenses
   
111.20   Retail liquor dealer’s license required
   
111.21   State retailer’s license
   
111.22   Term of license
   
111.23   License force and effect
   
111.24   License application or renewal
   
111.25   Renewal or transfer of license
   
111.26   Background check
   
111.27   License fees
   
111.28   Record of license
   
111.29   Application to premises
   
111.30   Posting license
Premises Specifications
   
111.45   Sales hours
   
111.46   Sales restrictions
   
111.47   Dram shop insurance
   
111.48   Locked doors
   
111.49   Display of liquors
   
111.50   Nuisances
   
111.51   Dancing
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes the four varieties of liquor defined in divisions
(1) through (4) below, and every liquid or solid, patented or not, containing
alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer and capable of being consumed as a beverage by
a human being. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to alcohol used
in the manufacture of denatured alcohol produced in accordance with Acts of
Congress and regulations promulgated thereunder nor to any liquid or solid
containing 0.50% or less of alcohol by volume nor shall the provisions of this
chapter apply to flavoring, extracts, syrups, or medicinal, mechanical,
scientific, culinary, or toilet preparations or food products unfit for
beverage purposes, but the provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to
exclude or not apply to alcoholic liquor used in the manufacture, preparation,
or compounding of such products. None of the provisions of this chapter shall
apply to wine intended for use and used by any church or religious organization
for sacramental purposes.
      (1)   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid,
whether rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
      (2)   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an
infusion or concoction of barley or other grain, malt, and hops in water and
includes, among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter, and the
like.
      (3)   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by
distillation, mixed with water or other substance in solution, and includes
brandy, rum, whisky, gin, or other spirituous liquors and such liquors when
rectified, blended, or otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
      (4)   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the
natural contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar including such
beverages when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as defined in
division (3) above.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, or other association or individuals.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange, or barter in any manner or by means whatsoever
for a consideration and includes and means all sales made by any person,
whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant, or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL. Refers to and means sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
   TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to
sell.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 1)
§ 111.02 CLASSES OF LICENSE.
   There are hereby created six classes of liquor licenses within the city,
designated as follows:
   (A)   Class A. Local liquor license which shall authorize the holder thereof
to sell alcoholic liquors at retail upon premises specified in said license,
subject to all ordinances of the city. Sales may be for consumption on the
premises or in the original sealed package or container for consumption off the
premises. Such licenses shall allow the operation of a restaurant in
conjunction therewith. Such licenses shall also allow the sale of food stuffs
and other goods but only incidental solely to the sale of alcoholic liquors;
   (B)   Class B. Local liquor license which shall authorize any club, as now
existing or hereafter defined by the statutes of the state, to sell alcoholic
liquors at retail upon premises specified in said license but only for
consumption upon said premises, subject to all ordinances of the city. Such
licenses shall allow the operation of a restaurant, in conjunction therewith.
Such licenses shall also allow the sale of food stuffs and other goods but only
incidental to the sale of alcoholic liquors;
   (C)   Class C. Local liquor license which shall authorize the holder thereof
to sell alcoholic liquors, beer, and wine at retail in the original sealed
package or container only, on the premises specified in said license, and for
consumption off such premises, subject to all ordinances of the city. Such
licenses shall allow the sale of food stuffs and other goods of any kind;
   (D)   Class D. Local liquor license which shall authorize the holder thereof
to sell only beer and wine at retail upon the premises specified in said
license, subject to all ordinances of the city. Said service of beer and wine
on said premises is to be served only in conjunction with meals served on said
premises or the operation of a restaurant on said premises. Such licenses shall
allow the sale of food stuffs and other goods but only incidental solely to the
sale of alcoholic liquors;
   (E)   Class E. Local liquor licenses which shall authorize the holder
thereof to sell only beer, wines, and coolers at retail in the original sealed
package or container only, on the premises specified in said license, and for
consumption off such premises, subject to all ordinances of the city. Such
license shall not prohibit the sale of food stuffs and other goods; and
   (F)   Class SD. Class SD licenses (single-day licenses) shall authorize the
retail sale of beer for a single day on the premises specified in said license,
subject to all ordinances of the city, for consumption on the premises
specified in the license, in accordance with the terms and conditions provided
for in such license. Class SD licenses shall be granted only upon the approval
of the Liquor Commissioner. The fee for such license shall be $50. Dancing is
not prohibited on the premises specified in the license. The licensee is
subject to all other requirements of this chapter, including closing times. If
the premises is situated on the property of any other unit of government, the
licensee is responsible for obtaining permission and meeting any requirements
of that entity of government. No more than one such license shall be issued for
any given day.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 3) (Ord. 10 (Series 1987-1988), passed 1-19-1988;
Ord. 2 (Series 2003-2004), passed 5-5-2003; Ord. 21 (Series 2008-2009), passed
2-16-2009) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   The number of Class A licenses which may be in force at any one time is
limited to eight; the number of Class B licenses which may be in force at any
one time is limited to the number of establishments eligible for such a Class B
license; the number of Class C licenses which may be in force at any one time
is limited to four; the number of Class D licenses which may be in force at any
one time is limited to one; the number of Class E licenses which may be in
force at any one time shall not be limited.
(Ord. 3 (Series 2021-2022), passed 9-20-2021)
§ 111.04 CLASS E REGULATIONS.
   A Class E licensee may not sell, offer for sale, give away, serve, or
dispense any alcoholic liquors except during the hours permitted in §
111.45; however, Class E licensees shall not be subject to the prohibitions of
§§
111.45, 111.48, and 111.49 prohibiting customers on the premises and requiring
locked doors and prohibiting display of liquors during prohibited hours and are
hereby expressly authorized to be open for the sale of food stuffs and other
goods during any hours they may elect, even though they may not sell alcoholic
liquors during the prohibited hours established in §
111.45.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 26) (Ord. 9 (Series 1986-1987), passed 1-5-1987)
§ 111.05 PRESENCE OF MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit any minor, without the
consent of his or her parents or any idiot, insane person, or person for whom a
guardian or conservator has been appointed, without the consent of his or her
guardian or conservator, or any intoxicated person to loiter or remain in or
about the premises where alcoholic liquors are licensed to be sold or offered
for sale.
   (B)   (1)   The presence of any person under the age of 21 years is hereby
prohibited after 9:00 p.m. local time each day until closing on the premises of
any establishment holding a Class A, B, or D liquor license where alcoholic
liquor is drawn, poured, mixed, or otherwise served for consumption on the
premises, unless such person under the age of 21 years is accompanied by a
parent or court-appointed legal guardian.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (B)(1) above also applies to employees,
waitresses, servers, or other personnel of the businesses named herein. The
presence of such persons is prohibited on the premises of establishments
holding a Class A, B, or D liquor license, after 9:00 p.m., local time, each
day and until closing, unless such person under the age of 21 years is
accompanied by a parent or court-appointed legal guardian.
      (3)   It shall be the responsibility of the liquor licensee to ascertain
the age of persons in their premises and prohibit any person under the age of
21 years to be on the premises of such establishment unless accompanied by a
parent or court-appointed legal guardian.
      (4)   This provision shall be enforced by the City Police Department or
any other law enforcement officer in the state.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 15) (Ord. 14 (Series 1998-1999), passed - -1999)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 TRANSFER OF OPEN LIQUOR.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person to transport, have, or possess
any alcoholic liquor upon any highway, street, sidewalk, or right-of-way of any
highway or street, public park, or other public place within the city, except
in the original package and with the seal unbroken.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 25) (Ord. 2 (Series 1975-1976), passed - -) Penalty,
see §
111.99
OBTAINING LICENSES
§ 111.20 RETAIL LIQUOR DEALER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic
liquor or engage in or conduct any place for the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquors within the corporate limits of the city without first securing a local
retail liquor dealer’s license issued by the Local Liquor Commissioner as
hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 2) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21 STATE RETAILER’S LICENSE.
   No license shall be issued to any person ineligible to obtain and receive a
state retailer’s license.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 11)
§ 111.22 TERM OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued under and by virtue of this chapter shall be annual
licenses. The license year under this chapter shall commence on May 10 of each
year and shall expire on May 9 of each year then next succeeding. All licenses
issued hereunder shall expire on May 9 following their issuance, unless sooner
revoked according to law. Every license issued hereunder shall state thereon
the class to which it belongs, the name of the licensee and his or her address,
and the description of the premises for which it is granted; provided, however,
only one location shall be described in each license, the date of its issuance,
the date of expiration thereof, and shall be signed on behalf of city by the
Local Liquor Commissioner. Each renewal license shall be, in all respects,
identical with the original license.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 5)
§ 111.23 LICENSE FORCE AND EFFECT.
   Any local license heretofore issued licensing the sale of alcoholic liquors
within the corporate limits of the city shall remain in full force and effect
until the expiration thereof, unless sooner revoked according to law, without
the necessity of the licensee therein making any new or additional application
for a license under this chapter, but the license therein shall comply with and
be subject to all of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 22)
§ 111.24 LICENSE APPLICATION OR RENEWAL.
   (A)   An applicant for a license or renewal thereof from the city shall
submit to the Local Liquor Commissioner an application, in writing, under oath
stating:
      (1)   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the person entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation, for-profit, or club, the
date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and directors, and, if a majority in interest of the
stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his or her nominees, the
name and address of such person;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth, and,
if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The location and legal description of the premises or place of
business which is to be operated under such license;
      (4)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter;
      (5)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof or
by the federal government has been revoked and the reasons therefor;
      (6)   He or she will not violate any of the laws of the state or of the
United States in the conduct of his or her place of business; and
      (7)   Whether the application is for an original or renewal license.
   (B)   If said application is made on behalf of a partnership, firm, or
association, club, or corporation, then the same shall be signed and sworn to
by at least two members of such partnership, firm, or association or club or
the President and Secretary of such corporation.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 8)
§ 111.25 RENEWAL OR TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Renewal of license. Any licensee may renew his or her license at the
expiration thereof provided he or she is then qualified to receive a license
and the premises for which such renewal license is sought complies with this
chapter, and provided, further, the renewal privilege herein provided for shall
not be construed as a vested right. Applications for the renewal of licenses
shall be made by the Local Liquor Commissioner on or before May 1 of each year.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 10)
   (B)   Non-transferability of license. A license issued under this chapter
shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year after
issuance unless sooner revoked by law, and shall not constitute property nor
shall it be alienable or transferable voluntarily or involuntarily or subject
to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws
of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the
licensee, provided that executors or administrators of the estate of any
deceased licensee and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee when
such estate consists, in part, of alcoholic liquor may continue the business of
the sale of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court and may
exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after
the death of such decedent or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the
expiration of such license but not longer than six months after the death,
bankruptcy, or insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made of that
portion of the license fee paid for any period in which the licensee shall be
prevented from operating such license in accordance with the provisions of this
division (B).
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 14)
§ 111.26 BACKGROUND CHECK.
   (A)   Upon the filing of any application and payment of the fee for the
license, the Liquor Commissioner shall request that the Chief of Police of the
city do a background check on the applicant and any stockholder of the
applicant holding more than a 5% ownership interest in the applicant and any
partner of the applicant holding more than a 5% ownership interest in the
applicant, such background check to be with the NCIC and other sources in his
or her discretion to determine whether any applicant or any stockholder of the
applicant holding more than a 5% ownership interest in the applicant and any
partner of the applicant holding more than a 5% ownership interest in the
applicant has been convicted of any felony or any liquor violation.
   (B)   If the Chief reports that all applicants are free of such violations,
a license shall issue provisionally to the applicant subject to a further
fingerprint check by the Chief of Police of all applicants described in this
section. All applicants, including any stockholder of applicant holding more
than a 5% ownership interest in applicant and any partner of applicant holding
more than a 5% ownership interest in applicant shall submit to fingerprinting
by the Chief of Police for a fingerprint check with the law enforcement
authorities of the state and with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and any
other agency in the discretion of the Chief of Police. In the event of a felony
report or a liquor violation report as a result of the fingerprint check, the
provisional license shall be immediately revoked by the Liquor Commissioner.
   (C)   Any misrepresentation or falsification on any application shall also
be cause for the Liquor Commissioner to revoke a liquor license. All costs and
charges for items required in this section shall be paid by applicant in
advance or reimbursed to the city by the applicant if advanced by the city.
(Ord. 21 (Series 2008-2009), passed 2-16-2009)
§ 111.27 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Every application for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the license fee in the full amount as hereinbefore required to
be paid, which fee shall be returned to such applicant if such application is
denied.
   (B)   The annual license fee for a Class A local liquor licenses shall be
$1,100; the annual license fee for a Class B local liquor license shall be
$300; the annual license fee for a Class C local liquor license shall be $850;
the annual license fee for a Class D local liquor license shall be $300; the
annual fee for a Class E liquor license shall be $475. Such license fees shall
be payable annually in advance but shall be reduced in proportion to the full
calendar months which have expired in any license year prior to the issuance of
the license. In the event any licensee, for any reason, relinquishes a license,
there shall be no refund of the license fee. No license shall be issued to any
applicant who is not current and in good standing on all accounts due to the
city.
(Ord. 12 (Series 2002-2003), passed 3-3-2003; Ord. 21 (Series 2008-2009),
passed 2-16-2009)
§ 111.28 RECORD OF LICENSE.
   The Local Liquor Commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept a complete
record of all licenses issued by him or her and shall furnish the City Clerk,
City Treasurer, and Chief of Police each with a copy thereof; upon the issuance
of a new license or the revocation of any license, the Local Liquor
Commissioner shall, as soon as possible, notify these officers of such action.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 13)
§ 111.29 APPLICATION TO PREMISES.
   Licenses issued hereunder shall apply only to the premises described in the
application and in the license issued thereon, and only one location shall be
so described in each license. After a license has been granted hereunder for
particular premises, the Local Liquor Commissioner, upon proper showing, may
endorse upon such license permission to abandon the premises therein described
and remove therefrom to other premises approved by him or her, but in order to
obtain such approval, the licensee shall file with the Local Liquor
Commissioner a request, in writing, and a statement under oath which shall show
that the premises to which removal is to be made complies, in all respects,
with the requirements of this chapter and the state law.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 6) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.30 POSTING LICENSE.
   The license issued to any applicant in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter shall be posted by the licensee and kept posted while in force in
a conspicuous place on the premises described in such license. Whenever such
license shall be lost or destroyed, a duplicate thereof shall be issued by the
Local Liquor Commissioner.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 12) Penalty, see §
111.99
PREMISES SPECIFICATIONS
§ 111.45 SALES HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee or his, her, or its agents or employees
to:
   (A)   Sell, offer for sale, give away, serve, or dispense any alcoholic
liquors; or
   (B)   To allow or suffer customers or any persons other than the licensee or
his or her employees, to be present in or on the premises specified on such
licensee’s license between the hours of 1:00 a.m., local time, on Sunday and
11:00 a.m., local time, on Sunday and between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m., local time, on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday
of any week; except, Class B, D, and E licensees may be open or have persons
present at any time.
(Ord. 16 (Series 2004-2005), passed 11-15-2004) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.46 SALES RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent,
or employee of such licensee shall sell, give, or deliver alcoholic liquor to
any person under the age of 21 years or to any intoxicated person or to any
person known to him or her to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane,
mentally ill, mentally deficient, or in need of mental treatment. It shall not
be a violation of this division (A) for a licensee or his or her representative
to sell alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of 21 years where said
licensee or his or her representative reasonably relied on an identification
card or license or other certificate issued by a governmental agency showing
the minor to be 21 years of age or older at the time of the purchase.
   (B)   No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquors,
shall sell, give, or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the
age of 21 except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
   (C)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase from any licensee
or his or her representative any alcoholic liquor.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 24) (Ord. 10 (Series 1973-1974), passed - -; Ord. 4
(Series 1984-1985), passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.47 DRAM SHOP INSURANCE.
   Prior to issuing any license, the Liquor Commissioner shall require that the
applicant file proof of dram shop insurance.
(Ord. 21 (Series 2008-2009), passed 2-16-2009)
§ 111.48 LOCKED DOORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or his, her, or its agents or
employees to keep open the premises specified in such licensee’s license
between the hours specified in §
111.45, and it shall be unlawful to permit the doors and entrances to said
premises to be and remain unlocked between the hours aforesaid, except that:
   (A)   For Class D licensees, the premises may be open for the purpose of
serving food and non-alcoholic beverages between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:
00 p.m. each Sunday for the sole and only purpose of serving food and soft
drinks, and it shall be unlawful for any licensee or his, her, or its agents or
servants to sell at retail, offer for sale, or give away any alcoholic liquor
or to permit the seal of any inventory of alcoholic liquor to be broken or
opened or to allow customers to be present in the bar area on the premises of
any such licensee when so open on any such Sunday; the bar area of any licensee
serving on Sunday, as aforesaid, shall be completely separated from the other
area of the licensee’s premises and closed off by closed doors which are to be
locked during the period of service of food and soft drinks on any such Sunday,
and no person or persons (either customers, licensees, or licensee’s employees)
are to enter during such hours said area so closed off and locked; and
   (B)   The licensee or his or her employees may be present on the licensed
premises at any time for cleaning or administrative purposes, so long as the
doors and entrances to the licensee’s premises do not remain unlocked during
said presence and so long as alcoholic liquor is not sold, offered for sale,
given away, served, or dispensed in violation of §
111.45 hereof.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 17) (Ord. 14 (Series 1976-1977), passed - -; Ord. 18
(Series 1979-1980), passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.49 DISPLAY OF LIQUORS.
   In the interest of public policy, public morals, and public welfare, no
licensee shall display or suffer or permit any alcoholic liquors to be
displayed or to be on view in or on the premises specified in such licensee’s
license between the hours specified in §
111.45.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 18) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.50 NUISANCES.
   Every lot, parcel, or tract of land and every building, structure,
establishment, or place whatsoever wherein alcoholic liquors are licensed to be
sold or offered for sale or wherein a retail liquor business is licensed to be
conducted or engaged in under the provisions of this chapter or any prior
ordinance heretofore in force wherein or whereon any of the provisions of this
chapter are violated shall constitute and is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 21) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.51 DANCING.
   (A)   Dancing shall be allowed in the premises specified in the licensee’s
license for Class A, Class B, and Class D licenses to a live band, orchestra,
vocalist, or other musical presentation, jukebox, or other recording device but
only so long as same is not so loud or disorderly as to constitute a public
nuisance or disturb the peace. Any such dances conducted on licensee’s premises
shall, in all respects, comply with the state rules and regulations for fire
prevention and safety promulgated by the office of the State Fire Marshal as
now existing or hereafter amended.
   (B)   No such dancing conducted, suffered, or allowed under this provision
shall be conducted, suffered, or allowed so as to constitute a disturbance of
the peace, any public indecency as now defined in 720 ILCS 5/11-9, any
obscenity as now defined in 720 ILCS 5/11-20, any indecent conduct, or any
disorderly conduct. Violation of the foregoing provision shall constitute cause
for immediate suspension or revocation of the liquor license to the licensee or
such action by the Liquor Commissioner as may be authorized by statute.
   (C)   The incorporation by reference of Illinois Revised Statutes, Chapter
38, §§ 11-9 and 11-20 is as they now exist. Subsequent amendment of these
sections by the legislature are now incorporated into this section by
reference, and the terms “public indecency” and “obscenity” retain their
meaning as now defined by statute at all times hereinafter during enforcement
of this section.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 19) (Ord. 11 (Series 1973-1974), passed - -; Ord. 10
(Series 1975-1976), passed - -; Ord. 19 (Series 1978-1979), passed - -)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $200.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 20)
   (B)   (1)   Violations of §
111.05 by any licensee shall be prosecuted in a hearing before the City Liquor
Commissioner, and such licensee shall be fined and punished as follows:
         (a)   For the first offense: a $100 fine and a one-week suspension of
the licensee’s liquor license;
         (b)   For the second offense within one calendar year of the first
offense: a $500 fine and four week’s suspension of the licensee’s liquor
license; and
         (c)   For the third offense within one calendar year of the first
offense: a $1,000 fine and revocation of the licensee’s liquor license for one
year.
      (2)   Each separate violation by each separate minor shall be considered
a separate offense for purposes of this division (B), notwithstanding that the
violation may occur on the same day or at the same time.
      (3)   Any person under the age of 21 years present in any licensed liquor
establishment in violation of this §
111.05 unaccompanied by a parent or guardian shall be fined the sum of $100 for
each offense, such offense to be prosecuted in the Circuit Court of the Ninth
Judicial Circuit.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 15)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
111.06 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor
more than $200.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 25)
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
111.45 and
111.48 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor
more than $500, notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 17A)
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
111.46 shall, upon conviction, be fined by a fine of not less that $300 nor
more than $500 for each such offense.
(Prior Code, Chapter 12, § 24)
(Ord. 4 (Series 1984-1985), passed - -; Ord. 5 (Series 1984-1985), passed - -;
Ord. 14 (Series 1998-1999), passed - -1999)
CHAPTER 112: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
112.01   Operational requirements
   
112.02   Prohibited conduct
   
112.03   Requirements for permit
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Mobile food vendors conducting business within the city must comply with the
following requirements.
   (A)   All mobile food vendors must abide by all federal, state, and local
laws, rules, and regulations. Mobile food vendors must operate in compliance
with all state laws and regulations and must maintain continuous licensure with
the County Health Department.
   (B)   Mobile food vendors may vend only on private property with the consent
of the property owner and may not encroach into any right-of-way adjoining the
property with the mobile food vending establishment or utilize any accessory
items such as tables, chairs, and the like. Mobile food vendors may not operate
on city property or within the right-of-way. If requested by the city, a mobile
food vendor shall promptly provide proof of a property owner’s consent to
operate on the property.
   (C)   Mobile food vending is allowed as an accessory use in the following
situations:
      (1)   On a parcel with a commercial or industrial use;
      (2)   On a construction site to fulfill on-site needs;
      (3)   In a residential zoning district, if in conjunction with a special
event held at a non-residential structure; and
      (4)   As otherwise authorized by the city.
   (D)   The vendor shall not conduct any vending in a way that causes
congestion or blocking of vehicle or pedestrian traffic or fire lanes. Each
vendor has an affirmative and independent duty to determine the safety and
suitability of any particular location of operation and to operate in a manner
reasonably calculated to avoid and prevent harm to people and to other
vehicles.
   (E)   All areas within and surrounding a mobile food service establishment
must be maintained in a clean, neat, and sanitary condition. A mobile food
vendor shall provide one private trash bin for public use with capacity of no
less than 13 gallons, each of which shall be removed upon departing the
location and the contents disposed of by the vendor. Trash bins shall be
anchored or otherwise secured upright. A mobile food vendor shall remove all
litter generated by its operation at the vendor’s expense. The mobile food
vendor shall not place trash or litter from the mobile food vending
establishment in any unauthorized private or city receptacle.
   (F)   Umbrellas and canopies must be designed to be secure during windy
conditions. Umbrellas and canopies must be at least seven feet above the ground
when open and may not protrude into the right-of-way.
   (G)   All mobile food vendors must ensure that individuals with disabilities
have comparable access to mobile food vending establishment. If existing
designs cannot be modified to be accessible to people with disabilities, the
method of providing service must be modified to become accessible.
   (H)   A mobile food vending establishment cannot be permanently located on
any property and cannot function as a permanent structure.
   (I)   Mobile food vendors may not vend alcohol.
(Ord. 13 (Series 2020-2021), passed 1-19-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   No mobile food vendor shall:
   (A)   Vend in the public right-of-way including on any public street, alley,
sidewalk, or in any on-street parking space, except in the following
situations:
      (1)   In conjunction with a special event that is approved by the city,
if applicable, so long as the special event includes the closure of the public
right-of-way and consents to the presence of the mobile food vendor; or
      (2)   In limited situations, with the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   Operate a mobile food establishment within 300 feet of any event held
in the central business district without obtaining written permission from the
event sponsor;
   (C)   Place any object that blocks any pedestrian pathway or ADA access;
   (D)   Utilize any signage other than signage that is affixed to the exterior
of the mobile food vending establishment, other than one sandwich board sign
which may be allowed; and
   (E)   Project audible amplified music or sound or make any unreasonably loud
noise for the purpose of advertising or attracting attention to the mobile food
vending establishment.
(Ord. 13 (Series 2020-2021), passed 1-19-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMIT.
   Each mobile food vendor shall apply for a permit issued by the City Clerk,
and the City Clerk shall issue a permit upon receiving from the mobile vendor
applicant copies of:
   (A)   The vendor’s County Health Department permit;
   (B)   The vendor’s State Sales Tax ID number;
   (C)   Proof of insurance;
   (D)   A copy of the owner’s driver’s license; and
   (E)   Payment of a fee of $5 for a one-year permit, which permit must always
be prominently displayed while vending.
(Ord. 13 (Series 2020-2021), passed 1-19-2020)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to a fine of $75 for each offense. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 13 (Series 2020-2021), passed 1-19-2020)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENT AND LEISURE
Section
   
113.01   Coin-operated amusement devices
   
113.02   Video gaming
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any amusement machine or device.
      OPERATED BY. The insertion of a coin, token, or similar object for the
purpose of amusement or skill and for the playing of which a fee is charged.
The term does not include vending machines in which are not incorporated gaming
or amusement features nor does the term include any coin-operated mechanical
musical devices.
      PROPRIETOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, or
club who (as the owner, lessee, or proprietor) has under his, her, or its
control any establishment, place, or premises in or to which such device is
placed or kept for use or play or on exhibition for the purpose of use or play.
   (B)   License required. No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in the
business of an operator or proprietor of coin-operated amusement devices, as
the terms are herein defined, without first having obtained the proper license
therefor.
   (C)   Proprietor’s license fee. The license fee for each proprietor, as
herein defined, shall be $25 per year for each device used or played or
exhibited for use or play. All proprietors’ license fees shall be payable
annually in advance; provided, where application is made after the expiration
of any portion of any license year, a license may be issued for the remainder
thereof upon payment of a proportionate part of the annual fee. In no case
shall any portion of said license fee be repaid to the licensee.
   (D)   Application for license.
      (1)   Application for a license hereunder shall be filed in writing with
the City Clerk, on a form to be provided by the city, and shall specify:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant and, if a firm,
corporation, partnership, or association, the principal officers thereof and
their addresses;
         (b)   The address of the premises where the licensed device or devices
are to be operated, together with the character of the business as carried on
at such place;
         (c)   The number of devices to be licensed; and
         (d)   The name and address of the operator of the device or devices,
if other than the proprietor.
      (2)   The proper license fee shall accompany such application.
Application for license hereunder shall be first referred by the City Clerk to
the Mayor and Council who shall make or cause to be made such investigation as
they deem necessary. If the application is approved by the Mayor and Council,
the license shall be issued by the Clerk, and the Clerk shall remit the fee to
the City Treasurer.
      (3)   If the license is denied, the fee shall be returned to the
applicant. All licenses under this section shall expire on May 9 following
their issuance. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the
establishment of the licensee. Such license shall be non-assignable and
nontransferable and shall apply only to the premises for which such license is
issued.
   (E)   Increase number of devices. In case a proprietor licensed under the
provisions of this section desires, after the expiration of any portion of any
license year, to increase the number of devices to be used or played or
exhibited for use or play in his or her establishment, he or she shall
surrender his or her license to the City Clerk who shall issue a new license
showing the number of devices licensed thereunder, upon payment of the proper
additional pro rata license fee for the additional machines.
   (F)   Minors. No proprietor shall permit or allow any person under the age
of 17 years nor shall any person under the age of 17 years be present upon the
premises between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following day on
Sunday through Thursday and between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. the
following day on Friday and Saturday.
   (G)   Revocation of license. The Mayor shall have the right to revoke any
license issued hereunder for the violation of any of the provisions of this
section.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article 3, § 4) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 VIDEO GAMING.
   (A)   The foregoing recitals are adopted and incorporated herein as if they
had been restated verbatim.
   (B)   Gaming terminals for which a license or permit has been issued by the
State Gaming Board pursuant to the State Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/1 et
seq.), as amended from time to time, are hereby authorized within the city, so
long as such video gaming terminals are operated in compliance with all
requirements of the State Video Gaming Act, and all applicable rules and
regulations of the State Gaming Board. An annual fee of $25 per video gaming
terminal shall be paid to the city by the terminal operator.
(Ord. 8 (Series 2012-2013), passed 10-1-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
113.01 shall be a misdemeanor and subject the offender to a penalty of not less
than $25 nor more than $100 for each such offense.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, Article 3, § 4)
CHAPTER 114: BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Definition
   
114.02   Compliance
   
114.03   Enforcement
Business Operation Regulations
   
114.15   Dwelling and operator requirements
   
114.16   Guest register
   
114.17   Length of stay
   
114.18   Signage
   
114.19   Food and beverage
   
114.20   Appearance and nuisance
   
114.21   Retail sales
Permits and Licensing
   
114.35   Licensing and permit required
   
114.36   Responsibility of fees
   
114.37   License fee, renewal, and transferability
   
114.38   License application requirements
   
114.39   Denial of license
   
114.40   Filing/license fee
   
114.41   Non-use of license
   
114.42   Suspension; revocation; renewal
 
   
114.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT shall mean
a single-family residential dwelling, which shall not be treated as a hotel or
other facility serving transient tenants, and meets the following criteria:
   (A)   Has five or fewer sleeping rooms, including sleeping rooms occupied by
the operator, one or more of which are available for rent to transient tenants;
   (B)   Serves meals at no extra cost to its transient tenants; and
   (C)   Has a smoke detector in proper working order in each sleeping room and
a fire extinguisher in proper working order on each floor.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004)
§ 114.02 COMPLIANCE.
   No license shall be issued pursuant to this chapter until the applicant has
obtained a special permit for the location of the establishment, pursuant to
the Zoning Ordinance, after public hearing before the Zoning Commission, said
license to be authorized by the City Council and, upon the Council’s direction,
issued by the City Clerk, as provided in §
156.222.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004)
§ 114.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Building Inspector may delegate authority to inspectors and
other employees as may be necessary to carry out the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004)
BUSINESS OPERATION REGULATIONS
§ 114.15 DWELLING AND OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS.
   Bed and breakfast establishment use shall be confined to a single-family
residential dwelling which is the principal dwelling on the property. The
dwelling in which the bed and breakfast establishment use takes place shall be
the principal residence of the operator, and the operator shall live on the
premises during any time that the bed and breakfast establishment is active.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004)
§ 114.16 GUEST REGISTER.
   Each operator shall keep a list of names and addresses of all persons
staying at the bed and breakfast establishment location. Such list shall be
available for inspection by city officials at any reasonable time.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004)
§ 114.17 LENGTH OF STAY.
   The maximum stay for any guests of a bed and breakfast establishment shall
be 14 consecutive days.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.18 SIGNAGE.
   One sign, not exceeding two square feet, will be permitted in the front of
the dwelling on the property of the applicant.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.19 FOOD AND BEVERAGE.
   Food and beverage service may be provided only to registered overnight
guests or personal guests of the owner/operator. Said service must comply with
state law.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.20 APPEARANCE AND NUISANCE.
   (A)   Residential structures may be remodeled for the development of a bed
and breakfast establishment. However, structure alterations may not be made
which prevent the structure from being used as a residence in the future.
Internal or external changes which will make the dwelling appear less
residential in nature or function are not allowed. Examples of such alterations
include the paving of required side yards and the installation of commercial-
type exterior lighting. The City Manager or designated Building Official has
the final authority in interpretative issues of the chapter.
   (B)   Bed and breakfast operations shall not be permitted and shall cease
whenever the operation shall become a nuisance to adjoining residents by
reasons of noise, smoke, odor, lighting, unreasonable traffic congestion, or
when the same interferes with the safety or rights of others. The impact of a
bed and breakfast establishment should not be greater than that of a private
home with guests.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.21 RETAIL SALES.
   No retail sales of any kind shall be permitted on the premises.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004) Penalty, see §
114.99
PERMITS AND LICENSING
§ 114.35 LICENSING AND PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, as defined by state law and/or city ordinance, without first
obtaining a license.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.36 RESPONSIBILITY OF FEES.
   (A)   The owner/operator of a bed and breakfast establishment shall be
responsible for fees for a license/permit, certificate of occupancy, as well as
reasonable fees for inspection and reinspection by the Building Inspector.
   (B)   The City Council, by resolution, may adopt fees for a license,
certificate of occupancy, and reasonable inspection fees in accordance with
this chapter.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004)
§ 114.37 LICENSE FEE, RENEWAL, AND TRANSFERABILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, as defined and as permitted in this chapter and Chapter 156 or
any amendments thereto, without first obtaining a license. The City Council, by
resolution, may adopt fees for a certificate of occupancy and reasonable
inspection fees as may be required from time to time. The bed and breakfast
establishment license shall be issued in January of each year and shall be
renewed on an annual basis. Bed and breakfast establishment license shall be
transferable when the ownership of the building changes, provided that a valid
bed and breakfast establishment license is in effect. The owner shall report
any changes in ownership information in order that the license maintained by
the City Clerk is current at all times.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.38 LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applicants shall file an application for license with the City Clerk,
whereupon the license request shall be submitted to the Building Inspector for
investigation and report to the Zoning Commission and the City Council. The
Building Inspector shall go upon the applicant’s property and verify the
conditions of the property. All applicants and their establishments shall meet
the following criteria and requirements.
      (1)   Size of residence. The minimum size of the single-family
residential dwelling for a bed and breakfast establishment shall be 2,000
square feet of normal residential space, exclusive of garages and storage
sheds. Lavatories and bathing facilities shall be available to all persons
staying at any bed and breakfast establishment.
      (2)   Parking. The bed and breakfast establishment shall provide a
minimum of one parking space per bed and breakfast sleeping room and a minimum
of two parking spaces for the use of the operator and family of the operator.
No additional parking can be created in the front yard of the dwelling unit
beyond the parking which exists at the time of the passage of this chapter. Any
new side yard parking spaces created after the passage of this chapter shall be
pre-approved by the city. Parking requirements must be met on the site of the
bed and breakfast establishment dwelling and must comply with the Off-Street
Parking Ordinance of the city.
      (3)   Safety and insurance. Applicants shall comply with 50 ILCS 820/
4 through 820/7, and provide proof of liability insurance in an amount no less
than $500,000 at the time of the application, in effect for one year.
      (4)   Disrupting peace. Bed and breakfast establishments shall be
situated so as to not disrupt the peace and quiet of the neighborhood in which
the establishment is located.
   (B)   Applicants for a license to operate a bed and breakfast establishment
shall submit the following materials for review:
      (1)   An application in a form promulgated by the Zoning Commission;
      (2)   Initial license: a floor plan of the single-family dwelling unit
illustrating that the proposed use will comply with the City Zoning Ordinance,
as amended, and other applicable city codes and ordinances and with the terms
of this chapter;
      (3)   Initial license: a site plan showing the dimensions of the property
and the size and location of the buildings, side yards, and the proposed
parking area; and
      (4)   Initial and subsequent annual license: a certificate of occupancy
issued by the Building Inspector stating the building meets minimum code
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 820/4 through 820/7
§ 114.39 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   The floor plan, site plan, and certificate of occupancy for the bed and
breakfast establishment shall be reviewed by the Building Official for
compliance with all city, state, and federal codes and ordinances. If the
Building Official finds that an applicant cannot meet a particular requirement,
then he or she shall have authority to deny the applicant a license. Any denial
based on zoning requirements may be appealed to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
Any denial of license based on requirements of the Building Code or the
Property Maintenance Code may be appealed to the General Appeals Board. Any
requests for hearing shall be filed within 20 days after the applicant and
license is denied. Any applicant aggrieved by a final decision or order of the
Zoning Board of Appeals and/or the General Appeals Board may appeal the
decision or order to the Circuit Court within 20 days from the date of the
decision.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004)
§ 114.40 FILING/LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   An applicant shall pay a filing fee of $40 to the City Clerk upon
filing an application for license.
   (B)   An applicant shall pay a license fee of $125 upon the issuance of the
license and a fee of $125 annually thereafter.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004)
§ 114.41 NON-USE OF LICENSE.
   Every license issued by the City Clerk under the provisions of this chapter
shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the establishment does
not rent, lease, or let a sleeping room to a guest within 270 days from the
date of license issuance or if the establishment authorized by such license is
suspended or abandoned at any time after the license is issued for a period of
270 consecutive days. Before a bed and breakfast establishment license can be
recommenced, a new license shall first be obtained from the city and a fee
therefor shall be required for a new license.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004)
§ 114.42 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; RENEWAL.
   The Building Official shall have the authority to refuse to renew a license
or to suspend or revoke a license for continued and repeated violations of the
provisions of this chapter. A decision to deny a license may be appealed to the
Zoning Board of Appeals or the General Appeals Board, as prescribed in §
114.39.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter is responsible for a
municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not more than
$50 plus costs and other sanctions for each infraction. The fine for any
offense which is a first repeat offense shall be subject to a civil fine of not
less than $250, plus costs. The fine for any offense which is a second repeat
offense or any subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $500, plus
costs.
(Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-2004)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE, MORALS, AND DECENCY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY OR ENVIRONMENT
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY, PERSONS, OR AUTHORITY
      
133.   OFFENSES INVOLVING ANIMALS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE, MORALS, AND DECENCY
Section
Offenses Against the Peace
   
130.01   Peace disturbance; abusive language and threats
   
130.02   Disorderly conduct
   
130.03   Disturbance of worship or assemblies
   
130.04   Disrupting funeral procession
Offense Against Morals and Decency
   
130.15   Public intoxication
   
130.16   Voyeurism
   
130.17   Public indecency
   
130.18   Indecent exposure
   
130.19   Indecent articles
   
130.20   Disorderly houses
   
130.21   Gaming and gambling; lottery tickets
   
130.22   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
§ 130.01 PEACE DISTURBANCE; ABUSIVE LANGUAGE AND THREATS.
   (A)   Peace disturbance. No person shall disturb the peace of the city or
quiet of any private family or person therein by loud or unusual noises or by
violent and tumultuous carriage or by shouting, cursing, quarreling,
challenging to fight, fighting, or by any other disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 3)
   (B)   Breach of peace, threats, and abusive language. No person shall
provoke a breach of the peace or shall use any violent, threatening, profane,
or indecent language to or concerning the disturbance of any person or shall
use any threatening, reproaching, or abusive language to or concerning any
other person, tending to provoke a breach of the peace.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 4)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct or shall make, aid,
countenance, or assist in making any improper noise, riot, disturbance, or
breach of the peace.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 7) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISTURBANCE OF WORSHIP OR ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   Disturbance of worship. No person shall (by any menace, profane
swearing, vulgar language, or any disorderly or unusual conduct) interrupt or
disturb any assembly of people, met for the worship of God.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 9)
   (B)   Disturbance of schools, public assembly. No person shall willfully
interrupt or disturb any school or other assembly of people met for a lawful
purpose.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 10)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 DISRUPTING FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   No person shall, in said city, willfully interrupt or disturb any funeral
procession or assembly.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 5) Penalty, see §
130.99
OFFENSE AGAINST MORALS AND DECENCY
§ 130.15 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   No person shall be drunk nor shall be in a state of intoxication in any
street, thoroughfare, or public place or in any private house or place to the
disturbance of any person.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 VOYEURISM.
   No person shall disturb the peace of the city or the quiet of any private
family or person therein by peeping or looking through the windows, doors, or
other apertures of any private dwelling house in said city or by trespassing,
loitering, or lingering on premises owned or occupied by any private family in
said city in such manner as to frighten and disturb the peace and privacy of
such family or any person therein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 50) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   No person shall be guilty of open lewdness, disorderly conduct, or act of
public indecency tending to debauch the public morals.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 8) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   No person, for the purpose of bathing or otherwise, shall appear in any
public place in a state of nudity or in any indecent and lewd dress or make any
indecent exposure of his or her person.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 11) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 INDECENT ARTICLES.
   No person shall exhibit, sell, or offer to sell, give away, or offer to give
away or have in his or her possession, with or without intent to sell or give
away, any obscene and indecent book, pamphlet, paper, drawing, lithograph,
engraving, picture, daguerreotype, photograph, stereoscopic picture, model,
case instrument, or article of indecent or immoral use.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 12) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20 DISORDERLY HOUSES.
   No person shall keep or maintain a house of ill-fame or assignation or place
for the practice of prostitution or lewdness. No person shall patronize or be
an inmate of the same nor let, own, or be interested in any house, room, or
other premises for any such purposes or shall keep a common, ill-governed,
disorderly house to the encouragement of idleness, gaming, drinking,
fornication, or other misbehavior.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 13) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 GAMING AND GAMBLING; LOTTERY TICKETS.
   (A)   Gaming. No person shall play for money or other valuable thing at any
game with cards, dice, checks, or billiards or with any other article,
instrument, or thing whatever which may be used for the purpose of playing or
betting upon or winning or losing money or anything of value nor shall bet on
any game others may be playing.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 18)
   (B)   Common gaming house. No person shall keep a common gaming house or in
any building, place, booth, yard, or garden by him or her or his or her agent
used and occupied, procure, or permit any persons to frequent or to come
together to play for money or other valuable thing at any game nor shall keep
or suffer to be kept any tables or other apparatus for the purpose of playing
at any game or sport for money or any valuable thing nor shall keep or rent any
such place for any such purpose.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 19)
   (C)   Lottery tickets. No person shall vend, give away, or otherwise dispose
of any lottery tickets.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 20)
   (D)   Tricks and games. No person shall manage, use, or practice any trick,
slight of hand, game, or device whatever with the intent of winning or
procuring the property or money of another person by inducing him or her to
bet, loan, deposit, or stake money or property upon the result of such trick or
game.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 21)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person less than 17 years of age to be
present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following day on Sunday
through Thursday and between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. the following
day Friday and Saturday, unless accompanied and supervised by a parent or a
legal guardian or unless engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of
the state would authorize such a person to be engaged in.
   (B)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 56) (Ord. 19 (Series 1975-1976), passed -
-) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of §§
130.01 through
130.04 and
1130.15 through
130.21, inclusive, shall be deemed to state a misdemeanor or misdemeanors
which, if severally or jointly committed by any person or persons or
corporation within the territorial jurisdiction of said city, shall subject the
offender or offenders severally to a penalty, upon conviction, of not less than
$3 nor more than $200 for each offense; provided, where more than one offense
is stated in a section, the offended thereof shall be liable to only one
penalty.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 1)
   (C)   Violation of §
130.22 hereof shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor and shall subject the
offender to a penalty, upon conviction, of not less than $3 nor more than $200
for each such offense.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 56)
(Ord. 19 (Series 1975-1976), passed - -)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY OR ENVIRONMENT
Section
   
131.01   Destruction of city property
   
131.02   Excavations
   
131.03   Subterranean openings
   
131.04   Obstructions of and encroachment on streets
   
131.05   Disturbing city markers
   
131.06   Signs on sidewalks
   
131.07   Tampering with or obstructing fire hydrants
   
131.08   Loitering on railroad property
   
131.09   Trespassing in cemetery
   
131.10   Climbing water towers
   
131.11   Dumping of sewage
   
131.12   Surface water drains connected to sewer prohibited
   
131.13   Storage of garbage in trucks
   
131.14   Printing prohibitions
   
131.15   Pollution; littering
   
131.16   Where minibikes, skateboards, and the like prohibited
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DESTRUCTION OF CITY PROPERTY.
   No person shall negligently or willfully injure, destroy, or deface any
bridge, crossing, sidewalk, lamp, lamp post, or other property of said city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 17) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 EXCAVATIONS.
   No person shall injure or tear up any pavement, sidewalk, or crosswalk or
any part thereof or dig any hole, ditch, or drain in or dig or remove any sod,
stone, earth, sand, or gravel from any street, alley, or public ground of said
city without first having obtained the written permission of the Council or
other authority as the Council may direct.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 32) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 SUBTERRANEAN OPENINGS
   No person shall leave open, uncovered, or unguarded any cellar door, pit,
vault, or other subterraneous opening leading from, into, or upon any street,
alley, or sidewalk of said city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 25)
§ 131.04 OBSTRUCTIONS OF AND ENCROACHMENT ON STREETS.
   (A)   Obstruction of streets. No person shall encumber or obstruct any
street, alley, or sidewalk with any building materials or any article or thing
whatever without first having obtained the written permission of the Public
Works Director nor shall any person, except in case of urgent necessity and for
a short time, encumber or obstruct more than one third of any street or alley
or one half of any sidewalk.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 31)
   (B)   Encroachment on streets or sidewalks. No person shall make or cause to
be made any structure, enclosure, fence, cellar door, stairway, or building
encroaching, in whole or in part, upon any street, alley, or sidewalk of said
city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 41)
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 DISTURBING CITY MARKERS.
   No person shall purposely change or remove any stake, post, or stone placed
or set to designate the corner or line of any lot or land, street, or alley or
show the grade of any street, alley, or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 37) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 SIGNS ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall suspend any merchandise or other article or set up or cause
to be set up any sign, box, or fixture which shall extend over or upon any
sidewalk more than 18 inches from the building line or inside of said sidewalk,
unless such merchandise or other article, signboard, or fixture, be suspended
at least eight feet above the sidewalk; provided, nothing herein shall be so
construed as to prevent merchants or manufacturers from occupying with their
wares three feet of the inside sidewalk nor prevent any person from occupying a
greater space on the sidewalk when receiving or shipping goods.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 38) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 TAMPERING WITH OR OBSTRUCTING FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Fire hydrants: tampering. No person except a duly authorized employee
of the city or in case of fire or other emergency shall unscrew or, in any
other manner, tamper with any fire hydrant in the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 48)
   (B)   Fire hydrants: obstructions. No person shall obstruct any fire hydrant
or place any material or property near the same or in such manner as to prevent
or interfere with the ready access of the Fire Department thereto and the free
use thereof nor shall any person drive over any unprotected hose or in any way
interfere with the same.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 49)
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08 LOITERING ON RAILROAD PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play upon or about any railroad
track, depot, locomotive, or car within said city or to climb upon or jump from
any car or train of cars or from one to another while the same be in motion.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 42) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.09 TRESPASSING IN CEMETERY.
   No person shall hunt, discharge firearms, set off or explode fireworks, or
otherwise trespass upon any cemetery or burying grounds within the city or
within or under the jurisdiction of the Council of said city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 43) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.10 CLIMBING WATER TOWERS.
   No person who is not an officer or employee of the city or who is not
otherwise duly authorized shall ascend, scale, or climb upon or onto any part
of the city water tower or tank.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 47) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.11 DUMPING OF SEWAGE.
   No person who shall permit or suffer any sanitary sewage, industrial waste,
garbage, or refuse to be gathered, discharged, or maintained upon any public
street within the city or into any of the storm sewers or other drainage
structures upon or adjoining said streets.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 52) (Ord. 4 (Series 1969-1970), passed -
-) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.12 SURFACE WATER DRAINS CONNECTED TO SEWER PROHIBITED.
   No foundation drain, surface water drain, roof drain, downspout, or roof
drainpipe shall be connected to or direct water into the sewerage system
operated by the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 54) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.13 STORAGE OF GARBAGE IN TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to store any
garbage, trash, or household waste in an open truck or open trailer overnight
in the city from 6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 57) (Ord. 13 (Series 1984-1985), passed -
-) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.14 PRINTING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Printing obscene language. No person shall write, print, or paint with
chalk, ink, paint, or other material any obscene words, language, or expression
upon any building, tenement, fence, wall, or other place or draw or paint on
the same any figure, picture, or representation of anything of an immodest or
vulgar character.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 27)
   (B)   Handbills. No person shall stick, paste, put up, or place upon or
against any building, tenement, fence, wall, lamp post, or other place any
handbill, show bill, picture, or representation unless by the consent of the
owner or occupant of such building, tenement, fence, wall, lamp post, or place.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 28)
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.15 POLLUTION; LITTERING
   (A)    Discarding of glass. No person shall throw, cast, lay, or place upon
the streets, sidewalks, or other public places within the city any glass
bottle, window glass, or any other article made of or containing glass; in case
of the accidental breaking of any glass upon any such street, sidewalk, or
public place, the owner or person in charge of such glass or the person
responsible for such breakage shall, at once, remove the same from such street,
sidewalk, or public place.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 33)
   (B)   Pollution of Mississippi River. No person shall throw or deposit, in
any manner whatsoever, in or upon the waters of Lake Keokuk or that portion of
the Mississippi River lying within the territorial jurisdiction of said city
north of the Keokuk and City Water Power Dam any paper, pasteboard, clay, mud,
mortar, plaster, iron, tin, glass, wire, or any kind of garbage or refuse,
whether animal or vegetable, or ill-smelling liquid or any kind of dirt,
rubbish, or waste material, thing, or substance whatsoever.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 34) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.16 WHERE MINIBIKES, SKATEBOARDS, AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Mini-bikes and the like on sidewalks and private property prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any mini-bike, motor
scooter, motor bike, motorcycle, or motorized bicycle on any sidewalk in the
city or on private property without the permission of the owner.
      (2)   For purposes of this chapter, MINI-BIKE, MOTOR SCOOTER, MOTOR BIKE,
MOTORCYCLE, and MOTORIZED BICYCLE shall include any motorized vehicle capable
of carrying or transporting one or more persons, equipped with either two or
three wheels and a motor.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 55)
   (B)   Skateboards and the like on sidewalks.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any wheeled device
propelled solely by human power upon the sidewalks of the city between 9th
Street and 12th Streets on Broadway Street. For the purposes of this chapter,
wheel devices shall include, but not be limited to, bicycles, scooters, roller
blades, and skateboards.
      (2)   This chapter shall not apply to devices used by the handicapped nor
to devices used in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise.
      (3)   This chapter shall be considered subject to Ordinance No. 3 (Series
1987-1988).
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 58)
(Ord. 2 (Series 1976-1977), passed - -; Ord. 7 (Series 1991-1992), passed 8-19-
1991) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Each violation of §§
131.01 through
131.10, 131.14, and 131.15 shall be deemed to state a misdemeanor or
misdemeanors which, if severally or jointly committed by any person or persons
or corporation within the territorial jurisdiction of said city, shall subject
the offender or offenders severally to a penalty, upon conviction, of not less
than $3 nor more than $200 for each offense; provided, where more than one
offense is stated in a section, the offended thereof shall be liable to only
one penalty.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 1)
   (C)   Violations of §
131.11 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a penalty of not
less than $5 nor more than $25, to be assessed and collected as provided by
law.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 52)
   (D)   Any violation of §
131.12 shall be punished as a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 54)
   (E)   Any person in violation of §
131.13 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each such
offense.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 57)
   (F)   Violation of §
131.16 shall be a misdemeanor punishable by fine of not less than $3 and not
more than $200.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 55)
   (G)   Any person violating any of these terms of §
131.16 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $100
for each offense.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 58)
(Ord. 2 (Series 1976-1977), passed - -; Ord. 13 (Series 1984-1985), passed - -;
Ord. 7 (Series 1991-1992), passed 8-19-1991)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY, PERSONS, OR AUTHORITY
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Assault and battery
   
132.02   False fire alarm
   
132.03   Aid in arrest
   
132.04   Escaped prisoners
Weapons, Firearms, and Dangerous Materials
   
132.15   Sale of flammable liquids and fireworks
   
132.16   Throwing missiles
   
132.17   Concealed weapons
   
132.18   Sale of firearms
   
132.19   Air guns; discharge of firearms
 
   
132.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   No person shall commit an assault or assault and battery.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 2) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 FALSE FIRE ALARM.
   No person shall willfully make a false alarm of fire by outcry or by using
any bell or other sounding instrument nor shall any person make any false alarm
of any kind calculated to disturb the peace of said city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 35) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 AID IN ARREST.
   No person shall refuse to aid in the arrest of any offender when ordered to
do so by the Chief of Police, Mayor, Alderperson, or any police officer of said
city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 39) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 ESCAPED PRISONERS.
   No person shall aid, abet, or encourage the rescue or escape from prison of
any person legally committed thereto nor shall supply or attempt to supply any
such person with any weapon or intoxicating liquors or with any implement or
means of escape while in prison or in legal custody of any officer of said
city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 40) Penalty, see §
132.99
WEAPONS, FIREARMS, AND DANGEROUS MATERIALS
§ 132.15 SALE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AND FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Sale of flammable liquids. No person shall, within the city, keep and
sell any gasoline, naphtha, benzine, kerosene, or other like inflammable or
explosive substances, except as hereinafter provided.
      (1)   No person who keeps or sells any gasoline, naphtha, or benzine
shall be permitted to keep in stores to exceed one barrel of each, which shall
be kept in a metallic can, free from leakage, and in a building detached and at
least 30 feet distant from any other building; such building shall be so built
and constructed as to permit the escape and prevent accumulation of any
inflammable or combustible vapor; no artificial light, except electric, shall,
at any time, be permitted in or about any building where such gasoline,
naphtha, or benzine is kept or stored.
      (2)   No person who keeps or sells within the said city any kerosene or
other illuminating oil shall be permitted to keep or store, at any one time,
quantities to exceed five barrels of such oil, which shall be of the U.S.
standard 110 degree and shall be kept in a metallic can or tank free from
leakage; stored in a part of the building remote from any fire, lamp, or
artificial light, except electric; and where it can be easily removed in case
of fire nor shall any person handle or sell kerosene or illuminating oil by any
artificial light, except electric.
      (3)   Provided, nothing in this division (A) contained shall be held to
apply to any tank or tanks equipped with pumps, where such tanks are buried in
the street or under the sidewalk or buried under the ground on private
property, and provided further, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to install any such buried tank, equipped with pump or pumps, for
the storage and sale of gasoline, naphtha, benzine, or kerosene except by
permission of the City Council or some committee of the City Council authorized
by the Council; provided further, all such permits shall be executed in
writing, in duplicate, one copy of which shall be displayed by the dealer in
his or her place of business and the other filed with the City Clerk, subject
to public inspection.
      (4)   All receptacles for gasoline used in the retail trade shall be red
and shall be labeled “gasoline” in letters of contrasting colors and of a
height of not less than one-half inch, and it shall be unlawful, in such retail
trade, or anything pertaining thereto to put gasoline into any receptacle of
any other color than red or not labeled as above required.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 44)
   (B)   Sale of fireworks. No person shall sell, keep, discharge, or expose
for sale within the corporate limits of the city any fireworks, firecrackers,
torpedoes, Roman candles, skyrockets, or other pyrotechnic display or
merchandise to be used for such display containing dynamite or any other
explosive material; provided, the discharge of firearms by the members of any
military company, when on parade and in accordance with the command of the
commanding officer or by any city officer or other person in the discharge of
any legal duty or lawful act (when the same may be done in such a manner as not
to endanger the safety of any person or result in the injury of any property)
shall not be deemed a violation hereof.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 45) (Ord. 8 (Series 1983-1984), passed -
-)
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.16 THROWING MISSILES.
   No person shall purposely or heedlessly cast or throw any stone, brick bat,
clod, or other missile from or into any public place or at any house or person.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 23) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.17 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   No person, except peace officers, shall carry or wear, under his or her
clothing or concealed about his or her person any pistol, revolver, sling-shot,
knuckles, Bowie knife, dirk knife, dirk, dagger, or any other dangerous or
deadly weapon without the written permission of the Mayor of said city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 26) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.18 SALE OF FIREARMS.
   No person shall sell or expose or display for advertisement or sale, and no
person shall shoot, burn, explode, or, in any manner, use any firecrackers,
Roman candles, sky rockets, torpedoes, caps, cap guns, or other fireworks or
explosive materials designed for the celebration of any holiday or for
amusement purposes within the corporate limits of said city except on July 2
through July 4 of each year; provided, however, if July 2 or July 3 occurs on
Sunday, then there shall be no sale or use, as aforesaid, of such explosive
materials named herein upon such day; provided further, if July 4 occurs on
Sunday, then the sale of such materials may be extended for another day, that
is, to and including July 5.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 46) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.19 AIR GUNS; DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   Air guns. No person shall carry or transport any BB gun, air rifle,
air gun, pellet gun, or gas gun within the city unless said rifle or gun is
carried unloaded in a case, and no person shall discharge any BB gun, air
rifle, air gun, pellet gun, or gas gun within the city limits.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 51)
   (B)   Discharge of firearms. It shall be unlawful, within the city, to
discharge any firearms except in a regularly established shooting gallery or
sporting range; provided, this division (B) shall not be construed to prohibit:
      (1)   Any officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the
performance of the officer’s duty;
      (2)   Any discharge of firearms in a ceremony;
      (3)   Any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending the
citizen’s person or property or that of another; and
      (4)   Any employee of the city from discharging a firearm necessary for
the performance of official city duties.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 51A)
(Ord. 4 (Series 1971-1972), passed - -; Ord. 9 (Series 1999-2000), passed 12-6-
1999) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Each of the following sections from §§
132.01 through
132.04 and
132.15 through
132.18 shall be deemed to state a misdemeanor or misdemeanors which, if
severally or jointly committed by any person or persons or corporation within
the territorial jurisdiction of said city, shall subject the offender or
offenders severally to a penalty, upon conviction, of not less than $3 nor more
than $200 for each offense; provided, where more than one offense is stated in
a section, the offended thereof shall be liable to only one penalty.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 1)
   (C)   Any person violating §
132.19(B) shall be fined the sum of $100 for the first offense and $200 for the
second offense and each offense thereafter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 51A)
Penalty, see §
132.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES INVOLVING ANIMALS
Section
   
133.01   Indecent exhibitions of animals
   
133.02   Cruelty to animals
   
133.03   Animal fighting
   
133.04   Dangerous animals at large
   
133.05   Dead animals
   
133.06   Destruction of birds
   
133.07   Animals disturbing the peace
   
133.08   Breeding animals kept in public view
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 INDECENT EXHIBITIONS OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall instigate, cause, or procure or, in any manner, assist in
any indecent exhibition of any animal or shall exhibit or perform any indecent,
immoral, or lewd play or show or representation of any kind.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 14) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall overload, overwork, cruelly beat, ill treat, torture,
mutilate, or cruelly kill any animal or cause or knowingly allow the same to be
done.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 15) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 ANIMAL FIGHTING.
   No person shall instigate, cause, or procure any dogfight, prize-fight,
cock-fight, nor any public or private fighting.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 16) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 DANGEROUS ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   No person shall knowingly suffer or permit any dangerous, unruly, fierce, or
mischievous animal, being the owner or keeper thereof, to run or be at large to
the danger, annoyance, or damage of any other person.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 22) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 DEAD ANIMALS.
   No person shall allow any dead animal, being the owner or keeper thereof, to
remain without being buried within the territorial jurisdiction of said city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 24) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 DESTRUCTION OF BIRDS.
   No person shall, at any time within the corporate limits of the city, kill,
trap, net, ensnare, or destroy any variety of owl, eagle, or hawk or any of the
song birds or migratory birds protected under the Federal Migratory Bird Act,
being 16 U.S.C. §§ 703 et seq. nor shall it be lawful to rob, disturb, or
destroy the nests of any such birds which may nest within the limits of the
city. Only in case of grackles, cowbirds, starlings, or English sparrows, which
may constitute a nuisance, will persecution be allowed and then only upon the
permission and direction of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 29) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.07 ANIMALS DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person shall, in said city, keep any dog, whelp, bitch, calf, or other
animal shut up or tied up in any yard, house, or other place which, by barking,
howling, or by other noises shall disturb the peace and quiet of any family,
individual, or neighborhood.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 30) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.08 BREEDING ANIMALS KEPT IN PUBLIC VIEW.
   No person shall indecently exhibit any stud horse, jackass, or bull or let
any such horse or jackass to any mare or mares or any such bull to any cow or
cows within the limits of this city, unless in some enclosed place out of
public view, nor shall allow any such stud horse, jackass, or bull to run at
large nor shall hitch or tie the same or either of them in public view to any
tree, fence, or hitching rack within the limits of said city nor shall keep
such stud horse or jackass enclosed in any lot, pen, or other place unless such
lot, pen, or other place is sufficiently enclosed to obstruct the public view.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 36) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation of this chapter shall be deemed to state a misdemeanor or
misdemeanors which, if severally or jointly committed by any person or persons
or corporation within the territorial jurisdiction of said city, shall subject
the offender or offenders severally to a penalty, upon conviction, of not less
than $3 nor more than $200 for each offense; provided, where more than one
offense is stated in a section, the offended thereof shall be liable to only
one penalty.
(Prior Code, Chapter 11, Article 1, § 1)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
152.   TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
153.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
155.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
156.   ZONING
      
157.   TRAINS AND RAILROAD CROSSINGS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Inspector of Buildings
   
150.02   Variances
   
150.03   Water testing procedures
   
150.04   Fences; overhanging branches
   
150.05   Dwelling specifications
   
150.06   Dilapidated structures
Permits
   
150.20   Permit required
   
150.21   Class of permits
   
150.22   New permits
   
150.23   Fees
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 INSPECTOR OF BUILDINGS.
   There is hereby created the office of Inspector of Buildings, of which the
City Council shall appoint some competent person whose term of office shall be
at the will of the Council and until a successor is appointed; it shall be the
duty of the Inspector of Buildings to inspect buildings and structures for
which permits are issued hereunder to see that the provisions hereof are
followed and to report any violations of this chapter to the City Council, and
the said Inspector of Buildings shall be compensated at the rate of $1.15 per
hour for each hour engaged in the discharge of his or her duties, payable
monthly.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 1, § 9) (Ord. 2 (Series 1949-1950), passed - -
)
§ 150.02 VARIANCES.
   The City Council may approve variances to this section when, in its opinion,
the standards set forth in this chapter will not be lowered or jeopardized.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 1, § 11) (Ord. 2 (Series 1949-1950), passed -
-)
§ 150.03 WATER TESTING PROCEDURES.
   No builder, construction contractor, plumber, residence owner, or
residential tenant shall reside in, inhabit, or cause or allow residing in or
inhabiting any residence in the city subsequent to connecting to the city water
system until a permit from or approval by the Public Works Director and the
Environmental Protection Agency of the state have been obtained for the
residence.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 1, § 13) (Ord. 2 (Series 1949-1950), passed -
-) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 FENCES; OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   Public property. It shall be unlawful to erect, build, construct, use,
or maintain within the city along the line of or in, upon, or along any street,
avenue, alley, public walk, drive, or other public place any barbed wire fence
or structure having barbs or other sharp-cutting, pricking, or tearing points
or edges exposed to the public, public travel, or public contact and the
erection, building, use, or maintenance of the same is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
   (B)   Existing barbed wire fences. Any barbed wire fences in existence at
the time of the adoption of this chapter shall not be in violation of division
(A) above and may hereafter be maintained but may not be enlarged,
reconstructed, or replaced.
   (C)   Living fences. It shall be unlawful to grow, plant, use, or maintain
along any public street, avenue, alley, or other public place within the city
any hedge fence, thorn trees, or other shrubbery having sharp, pricking,
tearing thorns or points exposed to public travel or public contact. No such
fence or trees shall hereafter be planted, grown, set out, or permitted to be
planted, grown, or set out along any public highway in said city, and any such
hedge fence or thorn tree along any public street or avenue in said city on the
date of the passage hereof is hereby declared to be a nuisance unless the owner
cuts, trims, and maintains the same or causes the same to be cut, trimmed, and
maintained to a height of not exceeding four feet and, further, unless the
owner of such fence otherwise cuts, trims, and maintains the same so that it
shall not amount to an obstruction or encroachment in or along any street in
said city.
   (D)   Overhanging branches. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to cause, suffer, or permit the branches or part of any tree or
shrub or part thereof hanging or being over any sidewalk in the city to be
nearer than ten feet above such sidewalk or to suffer or permit any vines,
shrubbery, or plants to grow or be on any such sidewalk or obstruct the free
use thereof.
   (E)   Obstructions. Every encroachment, encumbrance, or obstruction in any
street, alley, or other public place or over, along, or upon any sidewalk in
said city is hereby declared to be a nuisance. No person, firm, or corporation
shall cause, suffer, or permit any such nuisance, and the same may be summarily
abated by the Public Works Committee or by any person or employee under their
direction and supervision.
(Prior Code, Chapter 18) (Ord. 9 (Series 1984-1985), passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 DWELLING SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Any building or structure or any portion thereof hereafter erected,
constructed, altered, or remodeled to be used wholly or partly for dwelling
purposes or any new or old building or structure or any portion thereof
hereafter located or moved into the city or relocated within the city to be
used wholly or partly for dwelling purposes shall conform to the following
requirements.
      (1)   Light and ventilation. The objective of light and ventilation
requirements is to assure satisfactory and healthful living conditions by
providing natural light and ventilation in sufficient volume, proportioned to
the size and intended use of the rooms. The following provisions shall apply:
         (a)   Required windows:
            1.   In habitable rooms, 10% of floor area of room;
            2.   Ventilation area to be not less than 4% or floor area of room;
and
            3.   If windows open on covered porches and terraces or are in
rooms, any portion of which is more than 18 feet from a window, the glass shall
be not less than 15% of the floor area of the room.
         (b)   Bathroom:
            1.   Required glass area not less than 10% of floor area; minimum
three square feet; and
            2.   Ventilation area not less than 4% of floor area.
         (c)   Basements are to provide light and ventilation by windows or
glazed doors in exterior walls equal to 4% of floor area. Where there is no
basement and the floor construction above is of wood, provide wall vents equal
to one square foot for each 15 lineal feet of wall enclosing that area shall be
provided.
      (2)   Space requirements. The objective of space requirements is to
assure that each living unit provides complete living facilities ordinarily
considered necessary to the health and well-being of a family arranged to
provide suitable and desirable living, sleeping, and cooking accommodations.
         (a)   Number of rooms. Each dwelling unit shall contain at least one
room for living, dining, and cooking; at least one room for water closet, where
required; and at least one sleeping room, all provided with adequate closet and
storage space.
         (b)   Floor area of rooms. The minimum floor area of rooms, exclusive
of hallways, closets, and wardrobe space shall be as follows:
            1.   Living room: 150 square feet;
            2.   Living-dining combination: 160 square feet;
            3.   Living-dining kitchen combination in living unit of one
bedroom: 210 square feet;
            4.   Living-dining kitchen combination in living unit of more than
one bedroom: 220 square feet;
            5.   Kitchen-dining combination: 90 square feet;
            6.   Kitchen in living unit of one bedroom: 50 square feet;
            7.   Kitchen in living unit of more than one bedroom: 60 square
feet;
            8.   Dining room or dining alcove: 70 square feet;
            9.   Major bedroom: 100 square feet;
            10.   Second bedroom of living unit of two bedrooms: 80 square
feet; and
            11.   All other habitable rooms: 70 square feet.
         (c)   Ceiling heights.
            1.   Basement: six-foot, ten-inches clear under joists; and
            2.   Main floor: seven-foot, six-inches clear.
      (3)   Construction requirements. The objective of structural requirements
is to obtain a well-built and desirable dwelling unit which provides a weather-
resistant shelter.
         (a)   All portions of the structure subjected to exterior exposure
shall be of such material and shall be so constructed or protected as to resist
entrance or penetration of moisture and weather.
         (b)   Workmanship shall be of a quality equal to a good standard
practice and material used shall be of such kind and quality as to assure
reasonable durability and protection from the elements.
         (c)   All members and parts of the construction are to be properly
designed to carry all loads.
         (d)   The structure shall be adequately braced against lateral
stresses.
         (e)   Adequate precaution shall be taken to protect against fire and
accidents.
         (f)   All foundations and footings shall be of solid masonry or
cemented concrete blocks or bricks, subject to the requirements of division (A)
(1)(c) above and of adequate thickness to support the building and the bottom
of any footing shall be three and one-half feet below the ground level.
However, this provision shall not apply to accessory buildings other than homes
or commercial buildings, as defined in Chapter 156, and such accessory
buildings may be constructed on a floating concrete slab of adequate thickness
and strength to support the building.
         (g)   Chimneys shall be of brick or cement block with flue lining.
         (h)   Each dwelling unit shall be provided with facilities for
heating. The heating equipment shall be durable and in operating condition,
properly balanced, and adjusted. The installation shall be safe and provide
uniform distribution of that throughout the dwelling unit.
         (i)   Each dwelling unit located above the ground on the first floor
shall be provided with two separate doorways for entrance and exit.
         (j)   Locating the main entrance of a residence opening onto an alley
is hereby expressly prohibited.
      (4)   Sanitary requirements.
         (a)   Where public water supply and sanitary sewer are available, each
dwelling unit shall be provided with an adequate and safe method of disposal by
a water carriage system.
         (b)   Where a public water supply system or acceptable private system
is available, septic tanks and disposal fields are required and shall conform
to sound and reasonable plumbing practices and approved methods; provided,
however, compliance with Requirements for Individual Water-Supply and Sewage-
Disposal Systems by the Federal Housing Administration, Illinois Standards,
shall be prima facie evidence of such approved methods.
         (c)   All plumbing, except minor work, shall be performed in
accordance with the Plumbing Ordinances of the city now in existence and
especially §§
50.40 through
50.48.
      (5)   Electric requirements. All electric wiring, apparatus, or
appliances for furnishing light, heat, or power shall be in strict conformity
with approved methods and practices for safety to life and property; provided,
however, compliance with the National Electric Code, as published by the
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), shall be prima facie evidence of
such approved methods.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 1, § 5)
   (B)   Any building or structure or any portion thereof hereafter erected,
constructed, altered, or remodeled to be used wholly or partly for commercial
purposes or any new or old building or structure or any portion thereof
hereafter located or moved into the city or relocated within the city to be
used wholly or partly for commercial purposes shall conform to the requirements
of division (A)(5) above so far as the same may be applicable to a building or
structure devoted to commercial purposes.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 1, § 6)
   (C)   Any building or structure or any portion thereof hereafter erected,
constructed, altered, or remodeled to be used for any purpose other than
dwelling or commercial or any new or old building or structure or any portion
thereof hereafter located or moved into the city or relocated within the city
to be used for any purpose other than dwelling or commercial shall conform to
the requirements of division (A)(5) above so far as the same may be applicable
to any such building or structure according to the use to which it will be
devoted as the same appears from the application for a permit.   
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 1, § 7)
(Ord. 6 (Series 1969-1970), passed - -; Ord. 22 (Series 1979-1980), passed - -;
Ord. 18 (Series 1991-1992), passed 1-6-1992) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 DILAPIDATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect the public from
unsafe structures and prevent any detrimental devaluation of neighboring
properties because of neglect, abandonment, or other conditions causing a
nuisance due to the condition of said property.
   (B)   Definition.
      (1)   The term DILAPIDATED STRUCTURE shall mean any building, residence,
or other structure which:
         (a)   Cannot be utilized for the original intended purpose for which
it was constructed such as a domicile, garage, business, storage building, or
other use;
         (b)   Contains on the exterior surface, due to damage or
deterioration, holes or openings in the floors, external walls, or roof;
         (c)   Has one or more windows or doors deteriorated or been damaged so
as to allow the unrestricted entry of wind, precipitation, animals, or persons;
         (d)   Has any floor, wall, roof, porch, overhang, foundation, rafter,
sill, beam, or other part of such structure that is loose, tipped, tilted, or
otherwise structurally unsound or in danger of falling or collapsing;
         (e)   Has suffered the structural integrity or contiguity to become
dilapidated, deteriorated, or damaged to a point that the building or structure
or any portion thereof is loose, tipped, tilted, broken, cracked, open, or
otherwise structurally unsound or in danger of falling or collapsing;
         (f)   Due to damage or deterioration from fire, wind, storm, or other
cause, has become weakened so as to be loose, tipped, tilted, broken, cracked,
open, or otherwise structurally unsound or in danger of falling or collapsing;
         (g)   Contains either rats, rodents, or other vermin or wild animals
other than mice;
         (h)   Is a residential structure which, because of damage or
deterioration or other cause, has become uninhabitable or unfit for human
habitation; or
         (i)   Is a business or commercial building that has been damaged or
has deteriorated so as to be unacceptable or unusable for its intended business
or commercial purpose or for any business or commercial purpose.
      (2)   All such residences, buildings, or structures are hereby declared
to be a nuisance and in violation of this section.
   (C)   Nuisance prohibited. From and after the effective date of this
section, it shall be unlawful, within the city for the owner or person in
possession of any premises to allow the existence of a dilapidated residence,
building, or other structure or nuisance thereon as defined herein.
   (D)   Nuisances nonexclusive. Nuisances enumerated in this section shall not
be deemed exclusive but are in addition to and to be construed in conjunction
with any other nuisances enumerated in statutes or other provisions of the code
or ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 5 (Series 2006-2007), passed 10-16-2006) Penalty, see §
150.99
PERMITS
§ 150.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No corporation, person, or persons shall erect, construct, or build a new
building or structure of any type; alter or remodel any building or structure
of any type; relocate within the city any building or structure of any type;
locate or move into the city any building or structure of any type; or
construct any fence unless such corporation, person, or persons shall first
apply with the City Clerk and secure with consent of the City Council, a permit
to do the same, which said application shall be in writing and shall specify
the type of building or structure concerned, the purpose to which such building
or structure will be devoted, building plans for the same, the location or
proposed location thereof, the cost thereof (in the case of remodeling), and
the fair market value thereof, in the case of a new structure or moving a
structure.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 1, § 1) (Ord. 2 (Series 1949-1950), passed -
-; Ord. 2 (Series 1981-1982), passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 CLASS OF PERMITS.
   The permits to be issued hereunder shall be of seven classes, as follows,
for construction or remodeling of or repair or additions to buildings or for
moving or transporting buildings:
   (A)   Class A: where the value or remodeling cost is over $75,000;
   (B)   Class B: greater than $50,000 through $75,000;
   (C)   Class C: greater than $25,000 through $50,000;
   (D)   Class D: greater than $5,000 through $25,000;
   (E)   Class E: greater than $1,000 through $5,000; and
   (F)   Class F: $1,000 or less.
   (G)   Class G: demolition permit.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 1, § 2) (Ord. 15 (Series 1953-1954), passed -
-; Ord. 9 (Series 1965-1966), passed - -; Ord. 8 (Series 1978-1979), passed - -
)
§ 150.22 NEW PERMITS.
   No building or structure for which a permit is issued hereunder shall be by
any corporation, persons, or person devoted to any purpose other than that
declared in the application for such permit unless authorized by the City
Council by issuance of a new permit upon application to be filed with the City
Clerk, which said application shall be in writing and shall specify the
building or structure concerned, the location of the same, the purpose to which
it has been devoted, and the proposed new purpose.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 1, § 3) (Ord. 2 (Series 1949-1950), passed - -
) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23 FEES.
   All applicants for building permit shall pay a fee of $7.50 if the fair
market value or remodeling cost is less than $2,000; $15 if the fair market
value or remodeling cost is $2,000 or more but less than $10,000; and if the
fair market value or remodeling cost is $10,000 or more, a fee of $15 plus $3
per $1,000 or part thereof by which the fair market value or remodeling cost
exceeds $10,000. Except, there shall be no charge for demolition permits.
(Ord. 5 (Series 1992-1993), passed 7-20-1992)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The provisions of §§
150.01 through
150.05 and 150.20 through 150.22 shall be enforced by the City Council, and the
penalty for violation of any of its provisions shall be not less than $2 nor
more than $200 for each offense, and each day a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 1, § 8)
   (C)   Any person violating §
150.03 shall be punished, upon conviction, by a fine not less than $1 nor more
than $100 for each such offense.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 1, § 13)
   (D)   Any violation of §
150.06 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $75 nor more than $500
for each such offense. Each day that the violation occurs or exists shall be
considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 2 (Series 1949-1950), passed - -; Ord. 5 (Series 2006-2007), passed 10-
16-2006)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Encroachment on public rights-of-way
   
151.02   Poles and wires
   
151.03   Trees
   
151.04   Snow removal
Streets and Public Ways
   
151.15   Dedication to public use; recording
   
151.16   Street and alley dimensions
   
151.17   Names of streets
   
151.18   Excavations
   
151.19   Repair of damages
   
151.20   Liability for obstructions
   
151.21   Prohibitions
Construction of Sidewalks
   
151.35   Concrete
   
151.36   Cost; payment
   
151.37   Petition for construction
   
151.38   Sidewalk specifications
   
151.39   Construction rules
   
151.40   Special assessment
Underground Wires
   
151.55   Permit required
   
151.56   Permit application, form
   
151.57   Permit fee, deposit
   
151.58   Bond and liability insurance
   
151.59   Injury property; obstructing streets, private driveways
   
151.60   Construction plans
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 ENCROACHMENT ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect or
cause to be erected or to retain or cause to be retained any encroachment
except as provided in § 3, within the limits of the project right-of-way or
roadway right-of-way where no project right-of-way lines have been established.
   (B)   This section is intended to and shall be in addition to all other
ordinances, rules, and regulations concerning encroachments and shall not be
construed as repealing or rescinding any other ordinance or part of any
ordinance unless in direct conflict therewith.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 4) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 POLES AND WIRES.
   (A)   Poles and wires. No person, company, or corporation shall hereafter
erect or maintain any telegraph, telephone, or electric light posts or poles;
any telegraph or telephone wires; or electric light conductors in, upon,
across, or along any street, avenue, alley, or public place within the city
without having first obtained the permission and consent of the Council
therefor in a manner provided by law.
   (B)   Damage to property. No person, company, or corporation obtaining such
permission or authority from the Council, as aforesaid, shall so set, erect, or
maintain any posts or poles or so place or hang any wires thereon as to impede
or interfere with the public travel upon any street, avenue, alley, or sidewalk
or so as to injure or damage any public or private property within the city.
   (C)   Public Works Committee. The setting or placing of all telegraph,
telephone, or electric light posts or poles within the city shall be done under
the direction and supervision of the Public Works Committee, whose duty it
shall be to see that the poles used are of sufficient length and that the wires
are elevated to such height as not to inconvenience or incommode the public in
the free use of any street, avenue, alley, or highway, and it shall also be the
duty of said Committee to prosecute or cause to be prosecuted all persons,
companies, or corporations violating any of the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Destruction of pole and wires. No person shall willfully, maliciously,
or negligently cut down, break, injure, or destroy any telegraph, telephone, or
electric light pole or shall cut or break any wire or electric conductor or
shall deface, injure, or destroy any telephone box or apparatus within said
city, except in case of necessity from fire or other casualty.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 3) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 TREES.
   (A)   Destruction of trees. It shall be unlawful for any person or
corporation to injure, mar, destroy, cut, break, or tear any shrub, tree, or
plant or part thereof in any street, avenue, alley, public ground, or place in
said city or any part of any tree being in any such place. Whenever any person
or corporation has lawful authority to place wires, conduits, poles, or other
things in any such place he, she, or they shall do so in such manner so as not
to injure, break, destroy, or tear any such tree, shrub, or plant unless
unavoidably necessary to properly place such wires or conduits. Then, he, she,
or they must have a written permit from the Public Works Director to do so only
to such necessary extent and shall be liable for all damages incurred thereby.
This section shall not be held to apply to the city or to its authorized
agents, servants, or employees in the maintenance, repair, or regulation of any
such street or place.
   (B)   Public Works Committee. The title to and regulation of all trees,
plants, and shrubs located in or growing upon any public street, alley, avenue,
public ground, or other public place within the said city, and it is hereby
made the duty of the Public Works Committee to cause all branches of trees in
the streets, alleys, or avenues of the city to be kept trimmed to a height of
not less than ten feet above the ground.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 4) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a public sidewalk except as a
necessary means of access to property adjacent thereto and, when necessary, for
snow removal. During snow events, garden tractors, compact utility tractors,
and all-terrain vehicles/utility task vehicles (hereafter ATV/UTV) are allowed
to operate on public sidewalks, when in compliance with this chapter.
      (1)   Garden tractors and compact utility tractors shall not exceed 25
h.p. or 1,600 lbs.
      (2)   ATV/UTVs shall not exceed 1,600 lbs.
      (3)   The following shall also apply:
         (a)   The operator shall be at least 16 years of age; and
         (b)   The operator shall have a valid driver’s license and otherwise
comply with the State Motor Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/11-501.01 et seq.
      (4)   The width of the plow shall not exceed 72 inches.
      (5)   While operating under this section, garden tractors, compact
utility tractors, or ATV/UTVs shall be equipped with, but not be limited to:
mufflers, headlights, and a slow-moving vehicle sign attached to the rear.
      (6)   A garden tractor, compact utility tractor, or ATV/UTV will be
allowed to cross the street at an intersection after being unloaded from a
trailer or to continue removing snow on the next block; otherwise, these
vehicles shall be hauled on a trailer from property to property. At such an
intersection, the vehicle shall comply with the State Motor Vehicle Code, being
625 ILCS 5/11-501.1 et seq., and the vehicle must yield to pedestrians and
other traffic.
      (7)   No person shall operate a garden tractor, compact utility tractor,
or ATV/UTV at a speed in excess of ten mph nor shall any garden tractor,
compact utility tractor, or ATV/UTV be operated at a speed greater than is
reasonable and proper for the existing conditions.
      (8)   No person shall leave a garden tractor, compact utility tractor, or
ATV/UTV unattended on public property while the motor is running or the keys
are in the ignition switch.
      (9)   No person shall operate a garden tractor, compact utility tractor,
or ATV/UTV while under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
   (B)   Either the operator or someone acting for the operator shall
immediately notify a law enforcement office whenever a garden tractor, compact
utility tractor, or ATV/UTV is involved in an accident involving city
infrastructure resulting in injury or death to anyone or property damage
amounting to $1,000 or more.
   (C)   A peace officer may stop and inspect a garden tractor, compact utility
tractor, or ATV/UTV to determine that the unit is operating in compliance with
this chapter and any other applicable city, county, or state code.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as an assumption of
liability by the city for any injuries to persons or damage to property which
may result from the operation of the garden tractor, compact utility tractor,
or ATV/UTV.
   (E)   It is unlawful to move snow from any public property, including
parking lots and driveways, onto city streets. Persons removing snow from
public sidewalks should obtain authority from the Street Department on where to
put snow.
(Ord. 15 (Series 2015-2016), passed 1-19-2016) Penalty, see §
151.99
STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS
§ 151.15 DEDICATION TO PUBLIC USE; RECORDING.
   (A)   Dedication to public use. The streets, alleys, or other public places
within the corporate limits of the city, which are now being used by the public
as such or which have heretofore been dedicated to public use (as shown by any
map, plat, surveyor’s record, resolution, certificate, conveyance, or
dedication) contained either in the offices of the County Recorder of Deeds,
the City Clerk, or the Town Clerk of the Town of Montebello, and the same are
hereby declared to be public streets, alleys, and public places of the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 1, § 1)
   (B)   Recording. All streets, alleys, or other public places hereafter
deeded or dedicated to or, in any other manner, acquired by the said city shall
be properly surveyed and platted by some competent surveyor and, upon
acceptance and approval thereof by the Council of said city, said plat or
survey, bearing the certificate of said surveyor, together with a certificate
of approval by said Council under the corporate seal of said city shall be
recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 1, § 2)
§ 151.16 STREET AND ALLEY DIMENSIONS.
   All streets hereafter laid out, platted, or opened within said city shall,
unless otherwise provided by the Council, be 60 feet wide, and all alleys,
unless otherwise provided, shall be 20 feet wide.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 1, § 3)
§ 151.17 NAMES OF STREETS.
   (A)   Names; north and south streets. The names of all streets running north
and south in said city shall, unless otherwise provided by the Council, be
designated by numbers, consecutively arranged in the manner already adopted and
contained on the maps and plats of said city, to wit: beginning with 1st Street
on the western side of said city and numbering east; the next street east being
2nd Street; and the next, 3rd Street, 4th Street, 5th Street, 6th Street, and
so on.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 1, § 4)
   (B)   Names of east and west streets. The names of all streets running east
and west in the said city shall bear the name so given to them and contained on
the maps and plats thereof duly recorded; provided, however, the city reserves
the right to change the names or order of naming the streets of said city at
any time.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 1, § 5)
§ 151.18 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Excavations. No person shall engage in any digging or excavating in
any street in the city without first obtaining a permit from the City Clerk, on
forms to be prescribed by the City Clerk, said forms to state the person
digging or excavating and the location. The applicant for said permit shall pay
a fee of $5 plus a charge of $5 per square foot for opening costs, said square
footage to be based upon the size of the trench. The applicant shall backfill
the excavation in the presence of a city employee and according to city
specifications. The city will then assume the responsibility of permanent
street surfaces after adequate time has elapsed for settling. This division (A)
shall not apply to any city employees in the execution of city work.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 2, § 1)
   (B)   Excavations - bonds. Before any person, firm, or corporation shall
privately engage in the business of making excavations in any street or alley
for the purpose of making sewer or water connections or in the repairs of same,
said person, firm, or corporation shall first file with the City Clerk a bond
to said city in the sum of $1,000 executed by the person or firm or corporation
filing same, together with two sufficient sureties and approved by the Council,
conditioned that said person, firm, or corporation will indemnify and save
harmless the city from all suits or claims for damages which may arise on
account of or by reason of the doing or omitting to do of any work or duty
imposed upon such person, firm, or corporation by the ordinances of said city
or by the laws of the state, either by such person, firm, or corporation or by
those in his, her, or their employment; also, such person, firm, or corporation
will replace and restore the street or alley where any such work has been done
in as good condition as he, she, or they found it, and he, she, or they will
keep guards by day and red lights or flare by night, and he, she, or they will
keep and maintain the same in good order to the satisfaction of the Public
Works Committee. He, she, or they will conform, in all respects, to the rules
and regulations of the City Council relating to streets, water mains, sewers,
and drains and will obey all ordinances of said city relating thereto and will
pay all fines that may be imposed upon him, her, or them by law.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 2, § 9)
   (C)   Excavations - certificate of insurance. In addition to any other
requirements imposed by the ordinances of the city, prior to the issuance of
any permit to any person to dig or make any excavation in any street of the
city and before any such permit is issued, the applicant shall furnish the City
Clerk with a certificate of insurance showing liability coverage in not less
than $100,000/$300,000 for personal injury and $100,000 in property damage.
Such certificate of insurance shall indicate that the person applying for the
permit to excavate has purchased contractual liability insurance to comply with
the filing indemnifying agreement, namely: to indemnify and hold the city or
its agents, employees, and servants absolutely whole and harmless from, on
account of, and against all claims, demands, or suits which may be brought by
any person or persons arising out of any acts or work done pursuant to the
award of such permit to the permittee; notwithstanding that such claim, demand,
or suit may be of the negligence of someone other than the permittee or his or
her subcontractor.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 2, § 10)
(Ord. 10 (Series 1978-1979), passed - -; Ord. 5 (Series 1993-1994), passed 10-
18-1993) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.19 REPAIR OF DAMAGES.
   (A)   Any person making or causing to be made any excavation or ditch, for
any purpose, in any street, avenue, alley, or sidewalk shall, without
unnecessary delay, cause the same to be filled up to the proper level of such
street, avenue, alley, or sidewalk and shall from time to time, if necessary,
repair the same until the earth is completely settled and the surface thereof
conforms to the proper level or grade.
   (B)   Any person taking up or removing any paved street, avenue, alley, or
sidewalk or any bridge or culvert, for any purpose, or negligently breaking or
injuring the same shall, without delay, cause such paved street, avenue, alley,
or sidewalk or bridge or culvert to be repaired and placed in the same
condition as before the breaking or injuring thereof.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 2, § 2) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.20 LIABILITY FOR OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Any person who shall place or leave or cause to be placed or left any
encroachment, obstruction, or encumbrance in or upon any street, avenue, alley,
or sidewalk in said city shall, in all cases, be liable to the city and to
private persons for all injury or damage arising therefrom.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 2, § 7)
§ 151.21 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Contractors. No contractor for any public work or any officer or other
person making any excavation in any street, avenue, alley, or sidewalk of the
city, shall leave the same open and unprotected by lights or otherwise in the
nighttime so as to endanger the safety of persons or animals passing thereby.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 2, § 3)
   (B)   Written permits - contractors. No contractor, builder, or other person
shall encumber or obstruct any street, alley, or sidewalk in the city with
building or other like materials without a written permit from the Chairperson
of the Public Works Committee nor shall, except in case of necessity and for a
short time only, encumber or obstruct more than one-third of any street or
alley or one-half of any sidewalk nor shall such obstruction continue in any
case longer than may be necessary in the diligent erection of such building or
the prompt execution of the work.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 2, § 4)
   (C)   Obstruction - rebuilding and repair. No building, fence, fixture, or
other erection or enclosure heretofore erected or built and encroaching in
whole or in part on any street, avenue, alley, or sidewalk of the city shall be
repaired or rebuilt.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 2, § 5)
   (D)   Permits - removal of building. No person shall remove or cause to be
removed any building through or along any street, avenue, or alley of the city
without a written permit from the Chairperson of the Public Works Committee nor
shall, in removing such building, unnecessarily encumber or obstruct any
street, avenue, or alley for a longer time than may be necessary for prompt and
diligent removal thereof.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 2, § 6)
   (E)   Openings adjoining streets. No person shall leave open or permit to be
left open any cellar door, basement entrance, vault, cistern, well, ditch, or
other like pit or hole on or adjoining any street, avenue, alley, or sidewalk
within said city without securing or protecting the same so as not to endanger
the safety of persons or animals passing thereby from failing therein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 2, § 8)
Penalty, see §
151.99
CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS
§ 151.35 CONCRETE.
   All sidewalks hereafter constructed in the city shall be concrete sidewalks,
excepting as otherwise expressly provided by ordinance, and shall be
constructed and paid for in the manner prescribed by the succeeding sections of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 2, § 1) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.36 COST; PAYMENT.
   (A)   Cost. All sidewalks, including grading therefor, with or without
curbing, which shall be ordered constructed in and by the city shall be
constructed in the following manner, to-wit: one half of the cost to be borne
by the owner of the lot or piece of ground fronting thereon and one half of the
cost to be borne by the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 2, § 2)
   (B)   Payment - city share. Public benefit vouchers may be issued by said
city in payment for its portion of said assessment. Said public benefit
vouchers shall not be issued in excess of the city’s share of the cost of any
sidewalk improvement and shall be in installments to correspond with the yearly
amount assessed against said city as public benefits. Such vouchers shall be a
direct obligation of the city, and the amounts thereof becoming due each year
shall be included in the annual appropriation bill as part of the Annual
Sidewalk Fund for such year and shall be due and payable as soon as any monies
are transferred to and paid into said fund by virtue of the Annual
Appropriation Ordinance. Said vouchers shall be an interest at the rate of 5%
per annum from their date, payable annually, on May 1 in each year until
maturity, at the office of the City Treasurer. Said vouchers shall be properly
numbered and dated and registered in the name of the legal holder by the City
Treasurer, and the city hereby reserves the right to pay the whole or any part
thereof at any time before maturity. Said vouchers shall be signed by the Mayor
and attested by the City Clerk, with corporate seal affixed, and shall bear the
certificate of the Board of Local Improvements that the amount payable thereon
is correct.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 2, § 6)
§ 151.37 PETITION FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Whenever the owners of one half of the property abutting on any
street, avenue, park, or public place or portion thereof shall petition for the
construction of any sidewalk thereon, the Board of Local Improvements of the
city shall take the steps required by law for a hearing thereon but, at such
hearing, shall consider only the nature of the proposed improvement and the
cost thereof and shall determine, in the manner provided by law, the nature of
the improvement which it will recommend and shall, thereupon, prepare and
transmit to the City Council a draft of an ordinance therefor, together with an
estimate cost, and shall recommend the passage thereof, which recommendation
shall be prima facie evidence that all preliminary steps required by law have
been taken; thereupon, it shall be the duty of said Council to pass an
ordinance for the said improvement and take the necessary steps to have the
same carried into effect. Provided, however, if the owner of any lot or piece
of land fronting on such sidewalk shall, within 40 days after the time at which
said ordinance shall take effect, build or renew such sidewalk opposite to his
or her land to conform in all respects to the requirements of such ordinance,
an allowance shall be made in the spreading of the assessment against the said
lot or piece of land to an amount equal to the estimated costs of such sidewalk
based on the estimate of the President of the Board of Local Improvements
thereon.
   (B)   Notice of the passage of such ordinance shall be sent by mail, within
ten days after such ordinance shall take effect, to the person who paid the
taxes on said premises for the preceding year if he, she, or they can be found
in said county, and also, a like notice addressed to the occupant of said
property, and if the same be at such time actually occupied, an affidavit of
such service shall be filed with the official report of such assessment, such
affidavit shall be prima facie evidence of a compliance with said requirements.
Provided, however, the Board of Local Improvements of said city may, at any
time, originate a plan of sidewalk construction when same shall be considered
necessary or expedient in the manner and form prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 2, § 3)
§ 151.38 SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sidewalks hereafter constructed in the city, excepting as otherwise
provided by ordinance and excepting sidewalks in the downtown business
district, shall be four feet in width and shall be constructed so that inside
lines of such sidewalks shall be one and one-half feet from the outer line of
the lot, lots, blocks, tracts, or parcels of land along and in front of which
such sidewalks are to be constructed unless such construction, by reason of
physical difficulty countered, would, in the judgment of the Board of Local
Improvements, be inadvisable; then, and in that case, sidewalks shall be laid
in the most feasible place between the curb and property lines.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 2, § 4)
§ 151.39 CONSTRUCTION RULES.
   (A)   All sidewalks shall be constructed, in every respect, in accordance
with specifications therefor to be prepared and submitted by the Sidewalk
Committee and shall be constructed according to the grade for same as may be
provided by ordinance or otherwise for each such sidewalk.
   (B)   Every contractor or builder of walks shall be required to carefully
barricade and light same at night, and all travel across the surface of the
walk shall be prevented until properly opened for public use, and in hot
weather, the surface of the walk should be kept moist at all times until the
walk has set thoroughly and has become hard or at least 24 hours.
   (C)   The material used shall be of a first-class quality and in every way
suitable for the uses and purposes intended, and all of said work shall be done
in a workmanlike manner. Said materials shall be, at all times, open to the
inspection of the City Council or to its representative; for the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of this subchapter, the Public Works Director is
hereby declared to be City Sidewalk Inspector, and it shall be his or her duty
to carefully inspect all sidewalks under the process of construction, whether
the same shall be built under contract or otherwise.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 2, § 5) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.40 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   All proceedings for the levying and collecting of any special assessment
under the provisions of this subchapter shall conform to the legal requirements
of an Act of the State Legislature, entitled “An Act Concerning Local
Improvements,” approved June 14, 1897, and in force July 1, 1897, along with
all amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 2, § 7)
UNDERGROUND WIRES
§ 151.55 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall install any underground wires or cables of any kind in,
through, or under any street, sidewalk, alley, right-of-way, city property, or
public place in the city for any purpose whatsoever without a permit therefor
being first obtained from the City Clerk upon the authorization of the Public
Works Director, which permit shall not be issued until the applicant has
complied with the provisions of this subchapter in all respects, including a
bond and deposit, as required herein. A separate permit shall be obtained for
each installation, cut, or excavation made.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2018-2019), passed 3-4-2019) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.56 PERMIT APPLICATION, FORM.
   (A)   Application for permit. All applications for permit under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be in the name of the ultimate carrier
which is to be the final owner of the system giving its name, address, and
phone number and (if an LLC) the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the
managing partner and the owners. The application shall be signed by the
ultimate owner as well as the contractor that is to do the construction
designated in the application. Such application shall not be assignable, and no
person shall allow his or her name to be used to obtain a permit for any other
person. Applications shall be made on forms provided for this purpose, a copy
of such application being attached hereto
   (B)   Permit form. A permit form shall be provided by the City Clerk in the
form attached to the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2018-2019), passed 3-4-2019)
§ 151.57 PERMIT FEE, DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Project fee. The sum of $50 shall be charged for each and every permit
issued under this subchapter. Such fee shall be paid to the City Clerk. Public
utilities having franchises which permit the deduction from franchise taxes or
permit fees and charges shall be issued as permits without charge.
   (B)   Deposit. Before any permit under this subchapter shall be issued, the
applicant for such permit shall have deposited with the City Clerk the sum of
$500 lawful money of the United States, and this money shall be maintained and
held and shall constitute a special deposit, the object and general purpose of
such deposit being to protect the city on account of any expense it may incur
in repairing, refilling, paving, or resurfacing any cut or excavation that may
be made in the streets, sidewalks, alleys, or public places. All construction
and signage shall comply with the standard specification on road and bridge
construction.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2018-2019), passed 3-4-2019)
§ 151.58 BOND AND LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Before any permit referred to in this chapter shall be issued, the
applicant for such permit shall have deposited with the City Clerk approved by
the Public Works Director a performance and maintenance bond or, in the
alternative, a license and permit bond in the penal sum of $2,000, which bond
shall provide that the permittee shall well and satisfactorily restore the
street or other opening and guaranteeing said satisfactory restoration for a
period of one year after same is made, including correction or restoration of
any damage to any private individual’s property. If the permittee anticipates
requesting more than one permit per year, as required by this section, he or
she may furnish one continuing bond, as aforesaid, in the penal sum of $2,000,
unless a larger bond is required by the Public Works Director. If said $2,000
bond is not deemed adequate by the Public Works Director, he or she may require
an increase in the amount thereof promised upon the estimated cost of restoring
the street opening or openings.
   (B)   In addition to the requirement in division (A) above, the permittee
shall, before the permit is issued, furnish the City Clerk with a certificate
of insurance showing the liability coverage of not less than $1,000,000 for
personal injury and $500,000 for property damage. Such certificate of insurance
shall indicate that the permittee has purchased contractual liability insurance
to comply with the following indemnifying agreement, namely: to indemnify and
hold the city or its agents, employees, and servants absolutely whole and
harmless from, on account of, and against all claims, demands, or suits which
may be brought by any person or persons arising out of any acts or work done
pursuant to the award of such permit to the permittee notwithstanding that such
claim, demand, or suit may be the result of negligence of someone other than
the permittee or his or her subcontractor, including attorney fees.
   (C)   Self-insured corporations may deposit a hold-harmless agreement in a
form approved by the City Attorney.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2018-2019), passed 3-4-2019)
§ 151.59 INJURY PROPERTY; OBSTRUCTING STREETS, PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Injuring bridges, culverts. It shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully destroy or injure any bridge, culvert, sewer, crossing, or sidewalk
or any portion thereof; to aid, assist, or abet the same; to remove earth or
substance from the sidewalk or from any street, alley, or highway and thereby
leave the same below the proper grade; or to raise the same above the
established grade without having first obtained written permission of the
Public Works Director.
   (B)   Private driveways. No private driveways that cross city property shall
be cut or excavated without written permission of the Public Works Director,
and any damage shall be repaired by the permittee to its original condition.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2018-2019), passed 3-4-2019) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.60 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   Plans for construction. Complete plans showing the location of all
underground wires to be constructed in relation to any streets, alleys, or
other public facilities shall be provided to the satisfaction of the Public
Works Director prior to the issuance of any permit.
   (B)   As-built plans. Complete “as-built” plans shall be provided, approved
by the Public Works Director, and filed with the City Clerk within seven days
of completion of any installation.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2018-2019), passed 3-4-2019)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §
151.01 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17, Article 4)
   (C)   Any person guilty of violating the provisions of §
151.04 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be subject to a fine of $250.
   (D)   Failure to comply with §
151.19(A) in digging or excavating in a street in the city shall be a
misdemeanor punishable, upon conviction, by a fine of not less than $25 nor
more than $200.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14, Article 2, § 1)
   (E)   Any contractor, carrier, or owner failing to obtain any permit
required by §§
151.55 through
151.60 shall be fined the sum of $750 per day for each day of construction with
such permit. Any contractor, carrier, or owner failing to comply with any of
the other requirements of §§
151.55 through
151.60 or make appropriate filings, as required herein, shall be fined the sum
of $100 per day for each day any such violation continues.
(Ord. 15 (Series 2015-2016), passed 1-19-2016; Ord. 10 (Series 2018-2019),
passed 3-4-2019)
CHAPTER 152: TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
152.01   Definition
   
152.02   General requirements
   
152.03   Specific development standards
   
152.04   Special requirements
§ 152.01 DEFINITION.
   The term MOBILE HOME PARK means any tract of land upon which trailers,
mobile homes, or travel trailers are located or parked for dwelling purposes,
subject to the payment of rent.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17A, § 1) (Ord. 3 (Series 1974-1975), passed - -)
§ 152.02 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Streets and driveways shall be kept dust-free on the surface and in
reasonable repair, free from ruts and holes.
   (B)   All mobile home parks shall provide a four-foot wide planting strip,
planted with trees and shrubs at least six-feet high, to provide a screen which
extends the length and depth of the entire subdivision.
   (C)   In all mobile home parks, there shall be one or more recreation areas
which shall be easily accessible to all park residents. The size of such
recreation areas shall be based upon a minimum of 200 square feet for each lot
in the subdivision. No single outdoor recreation area shall contain less than
2,400 square feet and shall be designed in a contiguous and compact pattern.
   (D)   Each mobile home park shall be connected to the municipal water and
sewer facility system.
   (E)   The licensed owner for a mobile home park shall sign an affidavit
granting police, fire, health, and other officials permission to conduct their
normal responsibilities within such mobile home park.
   (F)   All utilities for a mobile home park shall be placed underground.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17A, § 1) (Ord. 3 (Series 1974-1975), passed - -)
§ 152.03 SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Every mobile home park shall be platted on not less than 15 acres of
land.
   (B)   Every mobile home park shall not have a density greater than eight
units per gross acre.
   (C)   Every mobile home placed in a park shall be on a lot with an area not
less than 4,000 square feet.
   (D)   No mobile home dwelling, including accessory buildings and structures,
shall cover more than 40% of a park lot area.
   (E)   No mobile home or accessory structure shall be constructed closer than
15 feet to any other mobile home or accessory structure.
   (F)   No mobile home or accessory structure shall be constructed closer than
26 feet to the street right-of-way.
   (G)   No building, structure, or dwelling in a mobile home park shall exceed
one and one-half stories or 21 feet in height.
   (H)   One off-street parking space for each mobile home shall be provided,
and guest off-street parking shall be provided at a ratio of one space per four
dwelling units. All off-street parking spaces shall be a dust-free surface.
   (I)   Each mobile home lot or unit location shall be provided with a yard
light, operated automatically and maintained by the park management.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17A, § 1) (Ord. 3 (Series 1974-1975), passed - -)
§ 152.04 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A proposed site development plan, at a scale of one inch equals 100
feet, shall be submitted to the City Council. Such plan shall include, but not
be limited to, the location and arrangement of dwelling units, accessory
structures, buildings, streets, off-street parking spaces, walkways, yard
lights, park and recreation areas, fire hydrants, and public and private
utilities and facilities.
   (B)   It shall be a condition prior to granting occupancy to the mobile home
park that at least one-third of the park lots be completed and ready for
occupancy. Such completion shall include the final installation of streets,
sidewalks, yard lighting, and public utilities.
   (C)   Prior to any of the park lots of any mobile home parks being occupied,
the owner of the mobile home park shall obtain a permit for occupancy from the
City Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, Chapter 17A, § 1) (Ord. 3 (Series 1974-1975), passed - -)
CHAPTER 153: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Purpose and scope
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Permits and applications
   
153.04   Application fees
   
153.05   Exceptions to applicability
   
153.06   Pre-existing agreements
   
153.07   Annual recurring rate
   
153.08   Abandonment
   
153.09   Dispute resolution
   
153.10   Indemnification; insurance
Collocation Requirements and Conditions
   
153.25   Public safety space reservation, communication
   
153.26   Installation and maintenance
   
153.27   Design requirements
   
153.28   Alternate placements
   
153.29   Height regulations
   
153.30   Spacing and undergrounding requirements
   
153.31   Collocation completion deadline
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations, standards,
and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless facilities on
rights-of-way within the city’s jurisdiction or outside the rights-of-way on
property zoned by the city exclusively for commercial or industrial use in a
manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act,
being 50 ILCS 840/1 et seq., herein referred to as the “Act.”
   (B)   In the event that applicable federal or state laws or regulations
conflict with the requirements of this chapter, the wireless provider shall
comply with the requirements of this chapter to the maximum extent possible
without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. The International Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or
Mechanical Code adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electrical Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the city for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended;
mobile service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended; or wireless
service other than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with §§ VI.D.I.a.i through
VI.D.I.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement (codified at 47 C.F.R. part
1, Appendix C) or designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site,
or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the city pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the State Historic Preservation Office or where such
certification of the preservation program by the State Historic Preservation
Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO-WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the city in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the city to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include city-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six cubic feet and all other wireless
equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the facility is
cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The following types of
associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment
volume: electric meter, concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation
box, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cut-
off switch, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used, in whole or in part,
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
equipment associated with wireless communications and radio transceivers,
antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and
comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration. WIRELESS
FACILITY includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS FACILITY does not include
the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the equipment is
collocated, wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that is
between wireless support structures, utility poles, or coaxial or fiber optic
cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly associated with
an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the city.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public including a
particular class of customers and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure (such as a monopole
tower) either guyed or self-supporting billboard, or other existing or proposed
structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018)
§ 153.03 PERMITS AND APPLICATIONS.
   (A) Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in §
153.29(B) regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject to zoning
review or approval if they are collocated in rights-of-way in any zoning
district or outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial
or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the city to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      (1)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the city together with the city’s small cell
facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site-specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989, being 225
ILCS 325/1 et seq.;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, being 225 ILCS 325/1 et seq., for each proposed small wireless facility
covered by the application as it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant’s
knowledge; and
         (g)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the city, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application process. The city shall process applications as
follows.
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the city fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application. However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed-approved basis, the applicant shall notify the
city, in writing, of its intention to invoke the deemed-approved remedy no
sooner than 75 days after the submission of a completed application. The permit
shall be deemed approved on the latter of the ninetieth day after submission of
the complete application or the tenth day after the receipt of the deemed-
approved notice by the city. The receipt of the deemed-approved notice shall
not preclude the city’s denial of the permit request within the time limits as
provided under this chapter.
         (c)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the city fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application. However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed-approved basis, the applicant shall notify the city, in
writing, of its intention to invoke the deemed-approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application. The permit shall be
deemed approved on the latter of the 120 day after submission of the complete
application or the tenth day after the receipt of the deemed-approved notice by
the city. The receipt of the deemed-approved notice shall not preclude the
city’s denial of the permit request within the time limits as provided under
this chapter.
         (d)   The city shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
         (e)   If the city determines that applicable codes, ordinances, or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
         (f)   The city shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is based
and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the city
denies an application.
         (g)   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the city
and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice of denial
is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The city
shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees and recommencement
of the city’s review period.
         (h)   The applicant must notify the city, in writing, of its intention
to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be
submitted with the revised application. Any review of a revised application
shall be limited to the deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised
application does not apply if the cure requires the review of a new location,
new or different structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other
wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility.
      (3)   Pole attachment agreement. Within 30 days after an approved permit
to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the city
and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement, provided
by the city for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by the
application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small wireless
facility on a municipal utility pole, the city and the applicant shall enter
into a license supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
         (a)   Completeness of application. Within 30 days after receiving an
application, the city shall determine whether the application is complete and
notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the city must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the city fails to provide notification to the applicant within 30
days after all documents, information, and fees specifically enumerated in the
city’s permit application form are submitted by the applicant to the city.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the city sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
         (b)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled
by:
            1.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
city; or
            2.   A local, state, or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
         (c)   Consolidated applications.
            1.   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the city shall be allowed, at the applicant’s
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
            2.   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the city may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application
and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The city may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
         (d)   Duration of permits.
            1.   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less
than five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations
unless the city makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new
or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable city codes or any
provision, condition, or requirement contained in this chapter.
            2.   If the Act is repealed, as provided in § 90 therein, being 50
ILCS 840/1 et seq., renewals of permits shall be subject to the applicable city
code provisions or regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
         (e)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information, and notices to the city by personal
delivery at the city’s designated place of business, by regular mail,
postmarked on the date due, or by any other commonly used means including
electronic mail.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018)
§ 153.04 APPLICATION FEES.
   Application fees are imposed as follows.
   (A)   The applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an application
to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure and $350 for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
   (B)   Applicants shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
   (D)   The city shall not require an application, approval, or permit or
require any fees or other charges from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way for:
      (1)   Routine maintenance;
      (2)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the city at least ten days prior to the planned replacement
and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment
consistent with §
153.03(B)(1)(d); or
      (3)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement
of micro-wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
   (E)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the city to work within
rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require lane
closures.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018)
§ 153.05 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small
wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the city or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation, or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government, as provided by the State Highway Code, being 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et
seq.; or
      (3)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201 of the
State Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/11-501.01 et seq., Metra Commuter Rail, or
any other public commuter rail service or an electric utility, as defined in §
16-102 of the Public Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier,
public commuter rail service, or electric utility. The provisions of this
division (A) do not apply to an electric or gas public utility or such
utility’s wireless facilities if the facilities are being used, developed, and
maintained consistent with the provisions of § 16-108.5(i) of the Public
Utilities Act.
   (B)   For the purposes of this division (B), PUBLIC UTILITY has the meaning
given to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act, being 220 ILCS 5/1-
101 et seq.. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person
from any requirement to obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to
offer cable service or video service or to obtain any required permission to
install, place, maintain, or operate communications facilities, other than
small wireless facilities, subject to this chapter.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018)
§ 153.06 PRE-EXISTING AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Existing agreements between the city and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on city utility poles,
that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small wireless
facilities collocated on the city’s utility poles pursuant to applications
submitted to the city before June 1, 2018, subject to applicable termination
provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into after June 1, 2018, shall
comply with this chapter.
   (B)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the city on
the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees, and terms that the
city makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the city that it
opts to accept such rates, fees, and terms. The existing agreement remains in
effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small wireless
facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the city’s utility poles,
pursuant to applications submitted to the city before the wireless provider
provides such notice and exercises its option under this division (B).
(Ord. 6 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018)
§ 153.07 ANNUAL RECURRING RATE.
   (A)   A wireless provider shall pay to the city an annual recurring rate to
collocate a small wireless facility on a city utility pole located in a right-
of-way that equals $200 per year or the actual, direct, and reasonable costs
related to the wireless provider’s use of space on the city utility pole.
   (B)   If the city has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee shall be $200, payable on the first day after the first annual
anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to collocate and
on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018)
§ 153.08 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period
of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility shall
remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of written
notice from the city notifying the wireless provider of the abandonment.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the city to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the city may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its Pole Attachment Agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
   (C)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the city if it
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
city. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018)
§ 153.09 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Circuit Court of the county shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve
all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, being
50 ILCS 840/1 et seq. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for
collocation of small wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the
right-of-way, the city shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its
poles at annual rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility pole,
with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018)
§ 153.10 INDEMNIFICATION; INSURANCE.
   (A)   Indemnification. A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the city
harmless against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property
damage resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or
occupancy of the city improvements or right-of-way associated with such
improvements by the wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors
arising out of the rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the
Act. A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless
against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole
negligence of the city or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall
further waive any claims that it may have against the city with respect to
consequential, incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the
theory of liability.
   (B)   Insurance.
      (1)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own
cost and expense, the following insurance:
         (a)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against
all risks;
         (b)   Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by law; or
         (c)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the city improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of city
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
      (2)   The wireless provider shall include the city as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the city in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
      (3)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirement required by the city. A wireless
provider that self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds
under this section. A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall
provide to the city evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage limits required by the city.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018)
COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS
§ 153.25 PUBLIC SAFETY SPACE RESERVATION, COMMUNICATION.
   (A)   Public safety space reservation. The city may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses for the city’s electric
utility uses or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the city reasonably determines
that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
   (B)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies. The
wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the
type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public
safety agency’s communications equipment.
      (2)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
      (3)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 C.F.R. §§ 22.970 through 22.973 and 47 C.F.R. §§ 90.672 through
90.675.
      (4)   The city may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based
on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the
Code of Federal Regulations cited in division (B)(3) above. Failure to remedy
the interference, as required herein, shall constitute a public nuisance.
   (C)   Collocation on electric distribution and transmission system. The
wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless facilities on city utility
poles that are part of an electric distribution or transmission system within
the communication worker safety zone of the pole or the electric supply zone of
the pole.
      (1)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the city utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the terms COMMUNICATIONS SPACE,
COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE, and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the meanings
given to those terms in the National Electrical Safety Code, as published by
the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   (D)   Compliance. The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable
codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.26 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The wireless provider shall install, maintain, repair, and modify its small
wireless facilities in safe condition and good repair and in compliance with
the requirements and conditions of this chapter. The wireless provider shall
ensure that its employees, agents, or contracts that perform work in connection
with its small wireless facilities are adequately trained and skilled in
accordance with all applicable industry and governmental standards and
regulations.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.27 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance with design standards. The wireless provider shall comply
with written design standards that are generally applicable for decorative
utility poles or reasonable stealth, concealment, and aesthetic requirements
that are set forth in a city ordinance, written policy adopted by the city, a
Comprehensive Plan or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers
of the rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic
district.
   (B)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the city and a private
property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable to
utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.28 ALTERNATE PLACEMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in this subchapter, a wireless provider shall not
be required to collocate small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole
or category of utility poles or be required to collocate multiple antenna
systems on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an application for
the collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility
pole, the city may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an
existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within 100 feet of
the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right
to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions and if the
alternate location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional
material costs, as determined by the applicant.
   (B)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the city, the
applicant shall provide written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits, or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this section.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018)
§ 153.29 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height limitations. The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
      (1)   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole other
than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities that is in place on the
date the application is submitted to the city, that is located within 300 feet
of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure, and that
is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the city;
provided, the city may designate which intersecting right-of-way within 300
feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control
the height limitation for such facility; or
      (2)   Forty-five feet above ground level.
   (B)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height for
a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on which
the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant shall
apply for a special use permit, variance, or administrative waiver in
conformance with procedures, terms, and conditions set forth in Chapter 156.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018)
§ 153.30 SPACING AND UNDERGROUNDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall comply
with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver or zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
   (B)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver or zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.31 COLLOCATION COMPLETION DEADLINE.
   Collocation for which a permit is granted shall be completed within 180 days
after issuance of the permit, unless the city and the wireless provider agree
to extend this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a municipal
utility pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the
site, provided the wireless provider has made a timely request within 60 days
after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services and
the additional time to complete installation does not exceed 360 days after
issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the city
grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
(Ord. 6 (Series 2018-2019), passed 7-16-2018)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Disclaimer of liability
   
154.04   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.05   Base flood elevation
   
154.06   Duty of City Code Enforcer
   
154.07   Development permit
   
154.08   Preventing increased flood heights and damages
   
154.09   Protecting buildings
   
154.10   Subdivision requirements
   
154.11   Public health and other standards
   
154.12   Carrying capacity and notification
   
154.13   Variances
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this city
by the State Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/12-1, 65 ILCS 5/11-12-12, 65 ILCS 5/11-
30-2, 65 ILCS 5/11-30-8, and 65 ILCS 5/11-31-2) in order to accomplish the
following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits, and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2009-2010), passed - -2009)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-12-12, 65 ILCS 5/11-30-2, 65 ILCS 5/11-
30-8, and 65 ILCS 5/11-31-2, and 65 ILCS 5/12-1
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The base
flood elevation at any location is set forth in §
154.05.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings, and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also
includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more
than 180 days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.
      (1)   Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of the
population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster.
Damage to these CRITICAL FACILITIES can impact the delivery of vital services,
can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can put special
populations at risk.
      (2)   Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood protection should be
required include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police
stations); schools; hospitals, retirement homes, and senior care facilities;
major roads and bridges; critical utility sites (telephone switching stations
or electrical transformers); and hazardous material storage facilities
(chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous, or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, and repair or
placement of a building or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities and construction of roads, bridges,
culverts, or similar projects:
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams walls, or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating,
paving, or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks and channel modifications or any other activity that might change
the direction; and
         (h)   Height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filing, grading, or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This MAP includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
      (1)   Those two terms are synonymous.
      (2)   Those lands within the jurisdiction of the city, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city, or that may be annexed into the city
that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The FLOODPLAINS of the city
are generally identified as such on panel numbers 245E and 265E of the
Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated October 16, 2009. FLOODPLAIN also includes those
areas of known flooding, as identified by the community.
      (3)   The FLOODPLAINS of those parts of unincorporated county that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that may be annexed
into the city are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map,
prepared for the county by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated
October 16, 2009.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property, and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry and flood-proofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAYS for each of the floodplains of the city shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state, or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions, and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the State Inventory of Historic Places by
the State Historic Preservation Agency; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a Local Inventory of Historic Places that
has been certified by the State Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR. Provided, such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
154.09.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size; and
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This is provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or
other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation or
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial
improvement, ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before live damage
occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes REPETITIVE
LOSS BUILDINGS (see definition).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   The term includes:
         (a)   Any reconstruction. rehabilitation, addition, or improvement of
a structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this chapter in which
the cumulative percentage of improvements:
         (b)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (c)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure. This term includes structures which have incurred
repetitive loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work
done.
      (3)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2009-2010), passed - -2009)
§ 154.03 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This section does not
imply that development, either inside or outside of the floodplain, will be
free from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the
part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2009-2010), passed - -2009)
§ 154.04 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the City
Council to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program
including the prior Floodplain Ordinance. However, this chapter does not repeal
the original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the
program nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other
ordinances, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2009-2010), passed - -2009)
§ 154.05 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the
best available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study
needed to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA
and IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of none shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Countywide Flood Insurance
Study, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The base flood
elevation for each of the remaining floodplains, delineated as a “A Zone” on
the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map, shall be according to the best data
available from federal, state, or other sources. Should no other data exist, an
engineering study must be financed by the applicant to determine base flood
elevations.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of the
unincorporated county that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
city or that may be annexed into the city shall be as delineated on the 100-
year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of the county, prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated September 5, 2008.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2009-2010), passed - -2009)
§ 154.06 DUTY OF CITY CODE ENFORCER.
   (A)   The City Code Enforcer shall the responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements
of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the City Code Enforcer shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
154.07;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
154.08;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
154.09 are met and maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
154.10;
      (5)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the Public
Health Standards of §
154.11;
      (6)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
154.13 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
      (7)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty
actions, outlined in §
154.99, as is necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (8)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
      (9)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse:
      (10)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (11)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
      (12)   Maintain, for public inspection, base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
      (13)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter
and make substantial damage determinations for structures within the
floodplain; and
      (14)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps, including notifying
IDNR/OWR and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2009-2010), passed - -2009)
§ 154.07 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the City Code Enforcer.
   (B)   The City Code Enforcer shall not issue a development permit if the
proposed development does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale, allowing property line
dimensions;
         (b)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting
from excavation or filling;
         (c)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
         (d)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
154.09; and
         (e)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed
engineer or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this
requirement.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the City
Code Enforcer shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled
after the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance Rate Map is not in the
floodplain and, therefore, not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current Flood
Insurance Rate Map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The City Code Enforcer shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance Rate
Map identification.
      (4)   The City Code Enforcer shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals, or
permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
City Code Enforcer shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state,
and local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2009-2010), passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.08 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND DAMAGES.
   (A)   Within any floodway identified on the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate
Map and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated,
the following standards shall apply. Except as provided in division (B) below,
no development shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and
anticipated development, will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities
or threat to public health and safety. The following specific development
activities shall be considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
following conditions of the State Department of Natural Resources, Office of
Water Resources, Statewide Permit Number 2.
         (a)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one foot.
         (b)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of 0.5 feet at a point 1,000 feet upstream of the
proposed structure.
         (c)   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in
water surface profile.
         (d)   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging, or relocating the existing channel.
         (e)   The design must be certified by licensed professional engineer
in the state, and the designs must meet the conditions of an IDNR/OWR permit.
         (f)   The design must be certified by a second licensed professional
engineer.
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR, Statewide Permit Number 3: the permit is only applicable when deadmen,
pier cells, or other similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers;
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR, Statewide Permit Number 4.
         (a)   The utility line must be constructed above the existing 100-year
flood elevation or attached to an existing bridge.
         (b)   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be
constructed above the low-cord elevation of the bridge.
         (c)   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake,
or stream.
         (d)   Supporting towers, including foundation and poles, shall be
designed and located so as to not cause an obstruction of flood flows by
trapping debris.
         (e)   All disturbed areas shall be returned to pre-construction grades
and re-vegetated.
         (f)   All State Commerce Commission, National Electrical Safety Code,
and federal requirements must be met.
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR,
Statewide Permit Number 5.
         (a)   The boat dock must not extend more than 50 feet into a waterway
and no more than one quarter of the width of the waterway and shall not extend
beyond the navigational limits established by the IDNR and Corps of Engineers.
         (b)   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet.
         (c)   For L-Shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion
parallel to the shoreline must not exceed 50% of the landowner’s shoreline
frontage nor 50 feet.
         (d)   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of
property lines into the waterway or come within ten feet of the projected
property line.
         (e)   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices.
         (f)   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment
during times of high wind or water.
         (g)   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units
unless they are filled with floatation foam. Containers which previously stored
pesticides, herbicides, or any other toxic chemicals are not permissible.
         (h)   This permit does not authorize any other related construction
activity such as shore protection or fill.
         (i)   Non-floating boat docks must be constructed in a manner which
will minimize obstruction to flow.
         (j)   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the
dock as determined by the IDNR or Corp of Engineers.
      (5)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR, Statewide Permit Number 6 and the following activities (not
involving fill or positive change in grade) are covered by this permit:
         (a)   The construction of underground utility lines, wells, or septic
tanks not crossing a lake or stream;
         (b)   The construction of light poles, signposts, and similar
structure;
         (c)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios, and similar structures;
         (d)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, and open
structures such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports;
         (e)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding 70
square feet in size nor ten square feet in any dimension. Only one such
building on a property is authorized by this statewide permit; and
         (f)   The raising of existing buildings, provided no changes are made
to the outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is not
involved.
      (6)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR, Statewide Permit Number 7.
         (a)   Any outfall structure, including any headwall or end-section
shall not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope or adjacent bank protection.
         (b)   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour
velocity of the channel soil unless channel erosion would be prevented by the
use of riprap or other design measures.
         (c)   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream
until the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation.
         (d)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion mid-sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR, Statewide Permit Number 8.
         (a)   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of
the river, lake, or stream and, unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet of cover shall be provided. The
river, lake, or stream bed shall be returned to its original condition.
         (b)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         (c)   Any utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution, as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5), shall
be provided with shutoff valves on each side of the body of water to be
crossed.
         (d)   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the
crossing, the permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten days prior to
the blasting date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR,
Statewide Permit Number 9.
         (a)   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas:
stone and concrete riprap, steel sheet piling, cellular blocks, fabric-formed
concrete, gabion baskets, rock and wire mattresses, sand- or cement-filled
bags, geotechnical fabric materials, natural vegetation, and treated timber.
URBAN AREAS are defined as: areas of the state where residential, commercial,
or industrial development currently exists or, based on land use plans or
controls, is expected to occur within ten years. The Department should be
consulted if there is a question of whether or not an area is considered urban.
         (b)   In addition to the materials listed in division (A)(8)(a) above,
other materials (such as tire revetments) may be utilized in rural areas,
provided all other conditions of this permit are met.
         (c)   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto
bodies, garbage of debris, scrap lumber, metal refuse, roofing materials,
asphalt or other bituminous materials, or any material which would cause water
pollution as defined by the Environmental Protections Act (415 ILCS 5).
         (d)   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank, or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, either singularly or cumulatively, 1,000 feet.
         (e)   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to
resist anticipated forces of current and wave action.
         (f)   Materials shall be placed in a way which would not cause erosion
or the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the
project.
         (g)   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of
the bank.
         (h)   Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full-width
and cross-sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site. For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along the bank, toe
of the bank, or other similar applications, in no case shall the cross-
sectional area of the natural channel be reduced by more than 10% nor the
volume of material placed exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot of the stream
bank or shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a flatter slope and to
lessen the quantity of material required.
         (i)   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials (such as
reinforcing rods) shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the construction area.
         (j)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         (k)   In the case of seawalls and gabion structures on lakes, the
structure shall be constructed at or landward of the water line, as determined
by the normal pool elevation, unless:
            1.   It is constructed in alignment with an existing seawall(s) or
gabion structures; and
            2.   The volume of material placed, including the structure, would
not exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot.
         (l)   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, state, and
federal laws and rules and shall not be placed in a floodway.
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR, Statewide Permit Number 10.
         (a)   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with
the requirements herein.
         (b)   The principle structure to which the project is being added must
have been in existence on the effective date of this permit (July 25, 1988).
         (c)   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed 500 square
feet in size and must not deflect floodwaters onto another property.
         (d)   The structure must not involve the placement of any fill
material.
         (e)   No construction shall be undertaken in or within 50 feet of the
bank of the stream channel.
         (f)   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions.
         (g)   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing
structure shall be authorized by this permit; plans for any subsequent addition
must be submitted to IDNR/OWR for review.
         (h)   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR, Statewide Permit Number 11.
         (a)   The affected length of the stream shall not, either singularly
or cumulatively, exceed 1,000 feet.
         (b)   The project shall not include the construction of any new
channel; all work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing
flows in the natural stream channel.
         (c)   The cross-sectional area of the dredged channel shall conform to
that of the natural channel upstream and down stream of the site.
         (d)   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland
and shall be either:
            1.   Removed from the floodway;
            2.   Used to stabilize an existing bank provided no materials would
be placed higher than live existing top of bank and provided the cross-
sectional area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than 10% nor
the volume of material placed exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot of
streambank;
            3.   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain area
such that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
            4.   Used to stabilize an existing levee, provided the height of
the levee would not be increased nor its alignment changed;
            5.   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by the
Department in accordance with the conditions of the approval; or
            6.   Used for beach nourishment, provided the material meets all
applicable water quality standards.
         (e)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise
stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR, Statewide Permit Number 12.
         (a)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine and document
that the existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood
damage. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
            1.   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the backwater
induced by the existing structure; and
            2.   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated
with the existing structure.
         (b)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge widening projects, the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge.
         (c)   The project shall not include any appreciable raising of the
approach roads. This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches
exist at an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood
headwater elevation, as determined by a FEMA flood insurance study completed or
approved by IDNR/OWR.
         (d)   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement, or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the Department’s Statewide Permit Number 9 (minor shoreline, channel, and
streambank protection activities) or Statewide Permit Number 11 (minor
maintenance dredging activities).
         (e)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above conditions.
      (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR, Statewide Permit Number 13.
         (a)   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required federal, state, and local
authorizations.
         (b)   The term TEMPORARY shall mean not more than one construction
season. All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream
and floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
conditions existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR.
         (c)   The temporary project shall be constructed such that it will not
cause erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles to adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed such that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel bunks.
         (d)   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of
any solid embankment or wall (such as a dam, roadway, levee, or dike) across
any channel or floodway.
         (e)   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or
stream channel until a licensed professional engineer determines and documents
that the temporary structure will meet the requirements of Special Condition
Number 3 of this statewide permit. Such documentation shall include, at a
minimum, confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the
backwater induced by the temporary structure.
         (f)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above condition.
         (g)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction.
         (h)   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution,
as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5).
      (13)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) above may be
permitted only if a permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required) or
sufficient data has been provided to FEMA, when necessary, and approval has
been obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2009-2010), passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
154.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 415 ILCS 5
§ 154.09 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
154.08, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or that equal
or exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively,
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If substantially unimproved, the
existing structure and the addition must meet the flood protection standards of
this section;
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively, subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage;
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year; and
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building, as defined in §
154.02.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods.
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent landfill in accordance
with the following.
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material.
         (e)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties and, when necessary, stormwater management
techniques, such as swales or basins, shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following.
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace, or other foundation that is permanently open to floodwaters.
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air-conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with a minimum of two openings. The
openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation.
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            1.   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            2.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical, and telephone lines;
submersible pumps; and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation, provided they are waterproofed.
            3.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space.
            4.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation, provided that the following conditions are met.
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade.
         (c)   The interior grades of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade.
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four
feet at any point.
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event.
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry and flood-proofed
(in lieu of elevation), provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation, the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice;
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity; and
      (4)   Levees, berms, woodwalls, and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this division (C).
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with division (B); and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the State
Mobile Home Tie-Down Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq. issued pursuant to 77
III. Adm. Code § 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of division (D) unless:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light-
duty truck;
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping,
travel, or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      (5)   The vehicle’s largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet;
      (6)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      (7)   Air-conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain;
      (8)   Propane tanks, as well as electrical and sewage connections, must
be quick-disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation;
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model; and
      (10)   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground, and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by used of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds, or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted, provided:
      (1)   The garage of shed must be non-habitable;
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use;
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits;
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principle structure on the same lot;
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage;
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation;
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area;
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $10,000 in market value or
replacement cost, whichever is greater or less than 500 square feet;
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning;
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection
elevation; and
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2009-2010), passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.10 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council shall take into account hazards, to the extent that
they are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (B)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection standards
of §§
154.08 and
154.09. Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway, when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2).
Streets, blocks, lots, parks, and other public grounds shall be located and
laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2009-2010), passed - -2009)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 765 ILCS 205/2
§ 154.11 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
154.08 and
154.09, the following standards apply.
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a flood-proofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or flood-proofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
154.09.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply system shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
and flood-proofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation, whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2009-2010), passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.12 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the city shall notify adjacent communities, in writing,
30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of
the watercourse.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2009-2010), passed - -2009)
§ 154.13 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Zoning Board of
Appeals for a variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall review the
applicant’s request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the
City Council. The City Council may attach such conditions to granting of a
variance as it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance was not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety, or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall notify an applicant, in writing,
that a variance from the requirements of the building protection standards of §
154.09 that would lesson the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (D)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
154.09 which are requested in connection with reconstruction, repair, or
alteration of a historic site or historic structure may be granted using
criteria more permissive than the requirements of §§
154.08 and
154.09, subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2009-2010), passed - -2009)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Code Enforcement
Officer may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter
exists. The Code Enforcement Officer shall notify the owner, in writing, of
such violation.
   (B)   If such owner fails, after ten day’s notice, to correct the violation,
the city shall make application to the Circuit Court for an injunction
requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as the court
deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter. Any person who violates
this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $50 or more
than $750 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. The city shall
record a notice of violation on the title of the property.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and, therefore,
may cause coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended. The
Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall be in writing,
indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary,
to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work order. The stop-work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
   (D)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked
until a hearing is held by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Written notice of such
hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
      (1)   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
      (2)   The time and place of the hearing.
   (E)   At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his, her, or their behalf At the conclusion of the hearing,
the Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be
suspended or revoked.
   (F)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 10 (Series 2009-2010), passed - -2009)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Title and purpose
   
155.02   Conformance
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Preliminary subdivisions
   
155.05   Exemptions
   
155.06   Variances
   
155.07   Changes and amendments
Procedure
   
155.20   Data required
   
155.21   Preliminary plan
   
155.22   Final plat
   
155.23   Passage of resolution as final approval
   
155.24   Returning performance guarantee
Design Standards
   
155.35   Conformance to City Plan
   
155.36   Acre subdivision
   
155.37   Relation to existing streets
   
155.38   Width specifications
   
155.39   Cul-de-sacs and dead-end streets
   
155.40   Street grades
   
155.41   Intersections, blocks, and lots
   
155.42   Street names
Improvements
   
155.55   Installation
   
155.56   Streets and alleys; roadways
   
155.57   Sidewalks
   
155.58   Water mains and sewers
   
155.59   Monuments
 
   
155.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Purpose. This chapter is to provide for the harmonious development of
the city for the coordination of streets within subdivisions with other
existing or planned streets or with other features of the city plan; for
adequate open spaces for traffic, recreation, light, and air; and for a
distribution of population and traffic which will tend to create conditions
favorable to health, safety, convenience, and prosperity.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.04, § 1.04.010)
   (B)   Title. This chapter shall be known, referred to, and cited as “The
Land Subdivision Ordinance of the City of Hamilton, Illinois.”
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.04, § 1.04.020)
(Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980), passed - -)
§ 155.02 CONFORMANCE.
   It is unlawful for the owner, agent, or persons having control of any land
within the corporate limits of the city to subdivide or lay out such land into
lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys, public ways, and grounds, unless by
plat, in accordance with the laws of the state and the provisions of this
chapter. For statutory provisions pertaining to plats generally, see 765 ILCS,
as now existing and hereafter amended.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.04, § 1.04.030) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980),
passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING LINE. A line on a plat between which line and a street no building
or structure may be erected.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street with only one outlet and culminated by a
turnaround.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use, for a specific purpose,
of a strip of land by the general public, a corporation, or a certain person or
persons.
   ESCROW AGREEMENT. An agreement between the subdivider and the city, whereby
the contractor guarantees installation of all public utilities proposed in
plans.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or of building
development.
   MAJOR STREET. A street designated as a major street in the Major Street Plan
for Hamilton.
   MINOR STREET. A street not designated as a major street in the Major Street
Plan for Hamilton.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Cash deposit or escrow agreement made out to the city
in an amount equal to the full cost of the improvements which are required by
this chapter, the cost being estimated by the City Engineer and the cash
deposit or escrow agreement being legally sufficient to secure the city that
the improvements will be constructed in accordance with this chapter. In lieu
of escrow agreement, the subdivider may install all public utilities proposed
in plans after meeting all requirements in §§
155.22(C) and
155.24. The resolution accepting the plat and recording of the plat will be
done upon certification by the City Engineer and City Attorney of satisfactory
completion of the installation and construction of all the required
improvements and acceptance of the required improvements by the City Council.
Prior to certification by the City Engineer and City Attorney, the subdivider
shall file with the City Engineer plans, profiles, and cross-sections of the
required improvements as they have been built.
   ROADWAY. The portion of the street available for vehicular traffic and,
where curbs are laid, the portion from back to back of curbs.
   STREET. All property dedicated or intended for public or private use for
access to abutting lands or subject to public easements therefor and whether
designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, expressway,
road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place, circle, or however otherwise designated.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, individual, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, estate, trust, or any other group including any agent thereof or
combination acting as a unit dividing or proposing to divide land so as to
constitute a subdivision as defined herein.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of land into two or more lots or other division of
land into parcels of one acre or less in area for the purpose, whether
immediate or future of transfer of ownership or building development or any
change in existing street lines or public easements. The term, when appropriate
to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided
or the re-subdivision of land heretofore divided or platted into lots or other
divisions of land or, if a new street is involved, any division of land.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.08) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980), passed - -)
§ 155.04 PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISIONS.
   Each subdivider of land shall confer with the City Council and the City
Engineer before preparing a preliminary subdivision plan in order to become
thoroughly familiar with the subdivision requirements and with the proposals of
the City Plan affecting the territory in which the proposed subdivision lies.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.04, § 1.04.040) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980),
passed - -)
§ 155.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A division of land involves the division or subdivision of land into
parcels which do not involve any new streets or easements of access where the
divisions are being made in an existing recorded subdivision.
   (B)   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances.
   (C)   The exchange of a single tract or lot from a larger tract where a
survey is made by a registered surveyor. This exemption shall apply to sale of
any subsequent tracts from the existing tract.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.04, § 1.04.050) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980),
passed - -)
§ 155.06 VARIANCES.
   (A)   When made. Where, in the case of a particular proposed subdivision, it
can be shown that strict compliance with the requirements of this chapter would
result in extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual
topography or other such not self-inflicted condition or that these conditions
would result in inhibiting the achievement of the objectives of this chapter,
the City Council may vary, modify, or waive the requirements so that
substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured; provided, such
variance, modification, or waiver will not have the effect of nullifying the
intent and purpose of this chapter or interfering with carrying out the plan of
the city. Any waiver of any requirement of this chapter, pursuant to this
division (A), may not be made at the meeting at which such waiver is first
proposed but may only be taken at the next regular meeting after such waiver is
first proposed.
   (B)   Limitations. In no case shall any variation or modification be more
than a minimum easing of the requirements, and in no instance shall it have the
effect of reducing the traffic capacity of any street or be in conflict with
any zoning provision.
   (C)   Granting; vote required. Such variances and waivers may be granted
only by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members of the City Council.
   (D)   Conditions for granting. In granting variances and modifications, the
City Council may require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure
substantially the objectives of the requirements so varied or modified.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.32) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980), passed - -)
§ 155.07 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   Any regulations or provisions of this chapter may be changed and amended
from time to time by the City Council; provided, however, such changes or
amendments shall not become effective until after a public hearing has been
held, public notice of which shall have been given in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city at least 15 days prior to such hearing.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.36) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980), passed - -)
PROCEDURE
§ 155.20 DATA REQUIRED.
   In obtaining final approval of a proposed subdivision by the City Council,
the subdivider shall submit a preliminary plan, a performance guarantee, and a
final plat in accordance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, § 1.12.010) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980),
passed - -)
§ 155.21 PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   Filing copies. The subdivider shall first prepare and file with the
City Council five copies of a preliminary plan conforming in detail to the
requirements set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, § 1.12.020)
   (B)   Referral - examination. The City Council shall, forthwith, refer one
copy to the City Clerk and two copies to the City Engineer and City Attorney.
The City Engineer and City Attorney shall carefully examine the plan as to its
compliance with the laws and ordinances of the city, the existing street
system, and good engineering practices and shall, at the following Council
meeting, submit his or her findings to the City Council.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, § 1.12.030)
   (C)   Passing - recommendations. The City Council shall, upon receiving the
City Engineer’s and City Attorney’s report, consider the report and pass upon
the plan. It shall then set forth its recommendations in writing, whether of
approval, modification, or disapproval. In case of modification or disapproval,
it shall give its reasons therefor. The City Council shall, forthwith, return
one copy of the approved preliminary plan and of its report to the subdivider.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, § 1.12.040)
   (D)   Approval - final plat preparation. Upon approval of the preliminary
plan by the City Council, the subdivider may proceed with the preparation of
the final plat and detailed construction drawings and specifications for the
improvements required under this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, § 1.12.050)
   (E)   Information required. The preliminary plan shall be clearly and
legibly drawn to a scale of one inch to 100 feet or less and shall be plainly
marked “Preliminary Plan” and shall show:
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision and, if different, the title
under which the subdivision is to be recorded;
      (2)   The name and address of the owner and the name, address, and
profession of the person preparing the plat;
      (3)   The date, scale, and north point and a key map showing the general
location of the proposed subdivision in relation to surrounding development;
      (4)   The legal description of the area being platted;
      (5)   The boundary line (accurate in scale) and the dimensions and
location of the property to be platted and the location of section lines;
contours of not less than five-foot intervals shall be required;
      (6)   The names and location of adjacent subdivisions and the names of
record owners and location of adjoining parcels of unplatted land;
      (7)   The location of property lines, streets and alleys, easements,
buildings, utilities, watercourses, tree masses, and other existing features
affecting the plat;
      (8)   The layout, numbers, and approximate dimensions of proposed lots;
      (9)   The layout of all existing and proposed building lines and
easements;
      (10)   The location, width, and dimensions of all streets, alleys, and
grounds proposed to be dedicated for public use;
      (11)   Proposed names for all streets in the area being platted;
      (12)   Written and signed statements explaining how and when the
subdivider proposes to provide and install all required sewers or other
disposal of sanitary wastes, roads, sidewalks, and drainage structures;
      (13)   Written and signed statements of the appropriate officials of the
availability of gas, electricity, and water to the proposed subdivision; and
      (14)   Any restrictions proposed to be included in the owner’s
declaration of plat.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.24)
(Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980), passed - -)
§ 155.22 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Improvement plans prerequisite. Before submitting the final plat to
the City Council for approval, the subdivider shall furnish all plans and
information as listed in §§
155.55 through
155.59 necessary for the detailed engineering consideration of the improvements
required under this chapter and obtain the approval of the City Engineer which
shall be endorsed thereon.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, § 1.12.060)
   (B)   Final plat - approval - data required. For final plat approval, the
subdivider shall submit to the City Council:
      (1)   Five copies of the final plat, plus one ink tracing;
      (2)   A performance guarantee in the amount approved by the City Engineer
and City Attorney;
      (3)   One copy of the certified approved plans, profiles, cross-sections,
and specifications; and
      (4)   A certificate from the City Engineer that the final plat is
substantially in accord with the preliminary plan, as approved by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, § 1.12.070)
   (C)   Copies filed. When the final plat has been approved by the City
Council, the performance guarantee accepted, and all five copies of the plat
duly certified, the same shall be delivered to the City Council, one copy to
the City Engineer and one copy to the City Clerk for their respective files,
and ten ink tracings to the subdivider for filing with the County Recorder. If
the plat is disapproved by the City Council, such disapproval shall point out,
in writing, wherein the proposed plat is objectionable.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, § 1.12.080)
   (D)   Copies to subdivider and utility companies. Upon receipt of the duly
certified copies of the final plat by the City Council, the City Engineer shall
determine house numbers and transmit copies of the plat to the subdivider and
all utilities.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, § 1.12.100)
   (E)   Receipt deemed authorization to proceed. Upon receipt of the duly
certified final plat and construction permit from proper EPA authority, the
subdivider is authorized that he or she may proceed with the installation and
construction of the required improvements.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, § 1.12.110)
   (F)   Final plat.
      (1)   Dimensions; scale; requirements. The final plat shall be clearly
and legibly drawn in ink to a scale of one inch to 100 feet or less and on one
or more sheets whose maximum dimensions are 24 inches by 36 inches. If more
than two sheets are required, an index sheet of the same dimensions shall be
filed showing the entire subdivision. The final plat shall be on tracing paper
and shall show:
         (a)   The title under which the subdivision is to be recorded;
         (b)   The name or names of the owners an subdividers;
         (c)   The date, scale, and north point;
         (d)   The legal description of the area being platted;
         (e)   Accurate distances and bearings of all boundary lines of the
subdivision including all section, U.S. survey, and congressional township
lines;
         (f)   Center lines of all proposed and adjoining streets with their
right-of-way width and names;
         (g)   Lines of all lots with a simple method of numbering to identify
all lots and blocks;
         (h)   All building lines and all easements provided for public service
together with their dimensions and any limitations of the easements;
         (i)   Any and all dimensions necessary for accurate location of the
boundaries of the site to be developed and of all streets, lots, easements, and
dedicated areas. These dimensions shall be given to the nearest one hundredth
of a foot;
         (j)   All radii, arcs, points of tangency, central angles, and lengths
of curves;
         (k)   Certification by a registered land surveyor that the final plat
as shown is a correct representation of the survey as made;
         (l)   All survey monuments and benchmarks, together with their
description;
         (m)   Private restrictive covenants and their period of existence; and
         (n)   The accurate outline, dimensions, and purposes of all property
which is offered for dedication or is to be reserved for acquisition for public
use or is to be reserved by deed covenant for the common use of the property
owners in the subdivision.
      (2)   Plans, profiles, and cross-sections. The subdivider shall submit to
the City Engineer, as required in division (B) above, the following plans,
profiles, and cross-sections, drawn to a horizontal scale, of one inch to 100
feet or less and a vertical scale of one inch to 20 feet or less and
specifications for the construction of the improvements for the subdivision, as
required in §§
155.55 through
155.59. All elevations shall be referred to mean sea level. Those plans,
profiles, and cross-sections include:
         (a)   The plan and profile of each street with tentative grades and
street intersection elevations;
         (b)   The cross-sections of proposed streets showing the width of
roadways, present and proposed grade lines, and location and size of utility
mains. The cross-sections shall be taken and platted at intervals of not more
than 50 feet along the centerline and shall extend out to the sides to that
point where the proposed grade intersects the existing grade. In no case shall
these cross-sections be extended less than the full width from building line to
building line;
         (c)   The plan and profile of proposed sanitary sewers and stormwater
sewers with grades and pipe sizes indicated, and a plan of the proposed water
distribution system showing pipe sizes and locations of valves and fire
hydrants; and
         (d)   Specifications for the required improvements. Standard
specifications approved by the City Engineer may be used.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.28)
(Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980), passed - -)
§ 155.23 PASSAGE OF RESOLUTION AS FINAL APPROVAL.
   The passage of the resolution accepting the plat shall constitute final
approval of the platting of the area shown on the final plat, but the owner
shall cause such plat to be recorded in the office of the County Recorder and
shall file satisfactory evidence of such recording in the office of the City
Clerk before, and the city shall recognize the plat as being in full force and
effect.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, § 1.12.090) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980),
passed - -)
§ 155.24 RETURNING PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   The City Council will return the performance guarantee to the subdivider
upon certification by the City Engineer of satisfactory completion of the
installation and construction of the required improvements and acceptance of
the required improvements by the City Council. Prior to certification by the
City Engineer, the subdivider shall file with the City Engineer plans,
profiles, and cross-sections of the required improvements as they have been
built.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, § 1.12.120) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980),
passed - -)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 155.35 CONFORMANCE TO CITY PLAN.
   All plats for additions to the city or subdivisions or repeats of existing
portion of the city shall conform to the City Plan.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, § 1.16.010) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980),
passed - -)
§ 155.36 ACRE SUBDIVISION.
   Where the parcel of land is subdivided into larger tracts than ordinarily
used for building lots, such parcel shall be divided so as to allow for the
opening of major streets and the ultimate extension of adjacent minor streets.
Easements providing for the future opening and extension of such streets may,
at the discretion of the City Council, be made a requirement of the plat.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, § 1.16.020) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980),
passed - -)
§ 155.37 RELATION TO EXISTING STREETS.
   New subdivisions shall make provisions for the continuation of the principal
existing streets in adjoining areas or their proper projection where adjoining
property is not subdivided insofar as they may be necessary for the public
requirements.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, § 1.16.030) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980),
passed - -)
§ 155.38 WIDTH SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum street and alley widths.
      (1)   The street layout shall be in conformity with a plan for the most
advantageous development of the entire neighboring area. Offset streets should
be avoided. The angle of intersection between minor streets and major streets
should not vary by more than ten degrees from a right angle.
      (2)   The width and locations of major streets shall conform to the
right-of-way widths and locations designated on the Major Street Plan of the
city.
      (3)   The minimum width for minor streets shall be 50 feet. When streets
adjoin unsubdivided property, a half street at least 25 feet in width may be
dedicated, and whenever subdivided property adjoins a half street, the
remainder of the street shall be dedicated.
      (4)   Alleys are not recommended except, under very unusual conditions,
in the residential block. When provided, a minimum width of 15 feet shall be
required. Alleys are required in the rear of all business lots and shall be at
least 20 feet wide. A five-foot cutoff shall be made at all acute angle alley
intersections.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, § 1.16.040)
   (B)   Minimum roadway width.
      (1)   The minimum roadway widths for streets shall be 20 feet.
      (2)   The minimum roadway widths for alleys shall be 15 feet in the
residential area and 20 feet in the business area.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, § 1.16.050)
(Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980), passed - -)
§ 155.39 CUL-DE-SACS AND DEAD-END STREETS.
   (A)   Except in cases where unusual topographic conditions may make it
advisable to modify these provisions, the following shall apply:
      (1)   Maximum length of 500 feet;
      (2)   Vehicular turn-around at the closed end with a minimum right-of-way
radius of 50 feet and a minimum radius of 40 feet to the street line; and
      (3)   In the case of temporarily dead-ended streets, which are stub
streets designed to provide future connection with unsubdivided areas
adjoining, the City Council may require a temporary easement for a turn-around
of the nature indicated above.
   (B)   The easement will be automatically abandoned with the recording of
plats on the adjoining property against which the street dead ends.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, § 1.16.060) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980),
passed - -)
§ 155.40 STREET GRADES.
   (A)   Streets shall be so arranged that grades shall not exceed 7% for major
streets and 10% for minor streets. The City Council may permit variation from
these grades where it deems modification advisable to adjust to topographic
situations.
   (B)   Gutter grades on paved gutters shall not be less than 0.5%.
   (C)   All changes in street grades shall be connected by a vertical curve of
reasonable length to assure adequate visibility.
   (D)   In approaching intersections, there should be a suitable leveling of
the street at a grade generally not exceeding 4% for a distance of generally
not less than 100 feet from the nearest line of the intersecting street. The
grade within the intersection should be as level as possible, permitting proper
drainage.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, § 1.16.070) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980),
passed - -)
§ 155.41 INTERSECTIONS, BLOCKS, AND LOTS.
   (A)   Intersections.
      (1)   Street line intersections shall be rounded by radii of at least 20
feet.
      (2)   Streets should be laid out to intersect at right angles and may be
curved approaching the intersection in order to bring this about; no minor
street shall intersect any other minor street at an angle of less than sixty
degrees.
      (3)   The design of the street intersection should be such that a clear
sight distance will be maintained for 75 feet at the roadway center line, with
no obstruction to sight within the triangle formed by these points.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, § 1.16.080)
   (B)   Blocks.
      (1)   No block shall be shorter than 500 feet nor longer than 1,000 feet
between streets except where the topography of the platted area requires blocks
of greater length.
      (2)   The width of blocks shall be sufficient to allow two tiers of lots
of appropriate depth but shall not exceed 300 feet.
      (3)   In blocks over 750 feet in length between street lines, the City
Council may require a right-of-way of not less than ten feet in width to be
dedicated for a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, § 1.16.100)
   (C)   Lots.
      (1)   No residential lot shall be less than 50 feet in width or 50 feet
at building line or minimum of 7,000 square feet in area.
      (2)   The foregoing requirements apply only to residential lots served by
public sanitary sewer. In the case of lots not so served, such lots shall be of
sufficient additional area to properly accommodate a suitable private sewage
disposal device. The City Council will determine the required lot size upon
report of appropriate tests and adequate determination and recommendation of
the City Engineer.
      (3)   Corner lots should have extra width sufficient to provide adequate
vision clearance at street intersections and to permit the establishment of
building lines 25 feet from both adjoining streets.
      (4)   In all lots, insofar as possible, the side lines shall be
perpendicular or radial to the street on which the lot faces, except where a
variation of this rule will provide a better street and lot layout. Minimum
building line set back of 25 feet will be required in all cases.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, § 1.16.110)
(Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980), passed - -)
§ 155.42 STREET NAMES.
   Streets that are obviously in alignment with others already existing and
named shall bear the name of the existing streets. The proposed names of new
streets shall be shown on the preliminary and final plats, and such names shall
not duplicate or sound similar to existing street names.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, § 1.16.090) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980),
passed - -)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.55 INSTALLATION.
   The subdivider shall install and construct all improvements required by this
chapter. All required improvements shall be installed and constructed in
accordance with the specifications and under the supervision of the City
Engineer and to his or her satisfaction.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.20, § 1.20.010) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980),
passed - -)
§ 155.56 STREETS AND ALLEYS; ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Streets and alleys. All streets and alleys within the platted area
which are dedicated for public use shall be brought to the grade approved by
the City Council after receiving the report and recommendations of the City
Engineer.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.20, § 1.20.020)
   (B)   Roadways. All roadways shall be a minimum of 20 feet wide with an
eight-inch compacted base course, Type B with CA6 aggregate and a bituminous
surface treatment, and Class A-3, as required by the Standard Specifications
for Road and Bridge Construction for the Illinois Department of Transportation
adopted July 1, 1976, and hereafter amended. At the contractor’s option, he or
she may install streets with V-type curb with a minimum of 30 feet back to back
on minor streets. Where major streets may be involved in the subdivision, a
minimum of 34 feet back to back of curb will be required.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.20, § 1.20.030)
(Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980), passed - -)
§ 155.57 SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks may be required by the City Council if they are considered
necessary for the general welfare and public safety of the development.
Sidewalks, when required, shall be of Portland cement concrete with a minimum
width of four feet and a minimum thickness of four inches. Sidewalks shall be
constructed to the grade approved by the City Council after receiving the
report and recommendation of the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.20, § 1.20.040) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980),
passed - -)
§ 155.58 WATER MAINS AND SEWERS.
   (A)   Water mains - fire hydrants. Where a public water main is reasonably
accessible, the subdivider shall connect with such water main and provide a
water connection for each lot in accordance with Municipal Water Department
standards, procedure, and supervision. Fire hydrants shall be installed in all
subdivisions at a distance of not more than 500 feet apart. Construction of all
water mains and appurtenances will be the subdivider’s cost. The city may
require that some mains be installed larger than six inches, and the difference
in cost between six-inch and larger mains will be paid for by the city. The
city will furnish all fire hydrants and the valve on the line leading to the
fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.20, § 1.20.050)
   (B)   Sewers.
      (1)   Where a public sanitary sewer is reasonably accessible, the
subdivider shall connect or provide for the connection with such sanitary sewer
and shall provide within the subdivision the sanitary sewer system required to
make the sewer accessible to each lot in the subdivision. Sewer systems shall
be approved by the City Council and the State EPA and the construction subject
to the supervision of the City Engineer.
      (2)   Where sanitary sewers are not available, other facilities, as
approved by the City Council and the State EPA, must be provided for the
adequate disposal of sanitary wastes.
      (3)   Adequate provisions shall be made for the disposal of stormwater,
subject to the approval of the City Council and to the supervision of the City
Engineer.
      (4)   Construction of all sanitary improvements for proposed subdivisions
shall be at the expense of the subdivider.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.20, § 1.20.060)
(Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980), passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.59 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Monuments shall be placed at all block corners, points of curves,
change in direction along lot lines, and at each lot corner in accordance with
Chapter 109, Illinois Revised Statutes. All monuments so established shall be
carefully preserved, and should any be destroyed or moved during construction,
they shall be reset.
   (B)   A permanent benchmark shall be accessibly placed and accurately noted
on the subdivision plat, the elevation of such benchmark to be based on mean
sea level.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.20, § 1.20.070) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980),
passed - -)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land located within
the city (knowingly or with intent to defraud), transfers or sells, by
reference to or exhibition of or by other use of, a plat of subdivision of such
land before such plat has been approved by the City Council shall, upon
conviction, forfeit and pay the penalty of not less than $25 nor more than $100
for each day such violation exists for each lot so transferred or sold or
agreed or negotiated to be sold, and a description by metes and bounds shall
not exempt the transaction from such penalties.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16, Ch. 1.40) (Ord. 2 (Series 1979-1980), passed - -)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Purpose; interpretation
   
156.002   Definitions
   
156.003   Districts and boundaries
   
156.004   Annexation; vacation
   
156.005   Application and exceptions
   
156.006   Minimum standards for residential structures
“R-1,” Low Density Residential District
   
156.020   Established
   
156.021   Principal uses
   
156.022   Accessory uses
   
156.023   Permitted special uses
   
156.024   Prohibited uses
   
156.025   Parking
   
156.026   Height and area regulations
   
156.027   Intensity of use
   
156.028   Special requirements
“R-2,” Medium Density Residential District
   
156.040   Established
   
156.041   Principal uses
   
156.042   Accessory uses
   
156.043   Special uses
   
156.044   Parking
   
156.045   Height and area regulations
   
156.046   Intensity of use
   
156.047   Special requirements
“R-3,” High Density Residential District
   
156.060   Established
   
156.061   Principal uses
   
156.062   Accessory uses
   
156.063   Special uses
   
156.064   Parking
   
156.065   Height and area regulations
   
156.066   Intensity of use
“R-4,” Permanent Mobile Home Park Subdivision District
   
156.080   Established
   
156.081   Adoption of the Suggested Mobile Home Ordinance
   
156.082   Principal uses
   
156.083   Accessory uses
   
156.084   Special uses
   
156.085   Parking
   
156.086   Height and area regulations
   
156.087   Intensity of use
   
156.088   Special requirements
“B-1,” Business Commercial District
   
156.100   Established
   
156.101   Prohibited uses
   
156.102   Principal uses
   
156.103   Accessory uses
   
156.104   Special uses
   
156.105   Parking
   
156.106   Height and area regulations
   
156.107   Intensity of use
“B-2,” Business Commercial/Residential District
   
156.120   Established
   
156.121   Prohibited uses
   
156.122   Principal uses
   
156.123   Accessory uses
   
156.124   Special uses
   
156.125   Parking
   
156.126   Height and area regulations
   
156.127   Intensity of use
“M-1,” Light Industrial District
   
156.140   Established
   
156.141   Prohibited uses
   
156.142   Principal uses
   
156.143   Accessory uses
   
156.144   Special uses
   
156.145   Parking
   
156.146   Height and area regulations
   
156.147   Intensity of use
   
156.148   Special requirements
“M-2,” General Industrial District
   
156.160   Established
   
156.161   Prohibited uses
   
156.162   Principal uses
   
156.163   Accessory uses
   
156.164   Special uses
   
156.165   Parking
   
156.166   Height and area regulations
   
156.167   Special requirements
“A-1,” Agricultural District
   
156.180   Established
   
156.181   Principal uses
   
156.182   Accessory uses
   
156.183   Special uses
   
156.184   Parking
   
156.185   Height and area regulations
   
156.186   Intensity of use
   
156.187   Building permits
“A-2,” Recreational District
   
156.200   Established
   
156.201   Principal uses
   
156.202   Accessory uses
   
156.203   Special uses
   
156.204   Parking
   
156.205   Height requirements
   
156.206   Special requirements
Additional Specifications
   
156.220   Nonconforming uses
   
156.221   Additional height and yard regulations
   
156.222   Additional use regulations
   
156.223   Additional parking regulations
   
156.224   Cannabis business zoning
Administration
   
156.235   Board of Appeals
   
156.236   Building Inspector
   
156.237   Permits
   
156.238   Amendments and changes
   
156.239   Zoning changes; boundary line determination
 
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Purpose. This chapter is for the purpose of securing adequate light,
pure air, and safety from fire and other dangers; conserving the taxable values
of land and buildings throughout the city; lessening or avoiding congestion in
the public streets; and promoting the public health, safety, comfort, morals,
and welfare.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 1)
   (B)   Interpretation and application. In interpreting and applying the
provisions of this chapter, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the promotion of the public safety, health, convenience, comfort, morals,
prosperity, and general welfare. It is not intended by this chapter to
interfere with or abrogate or annul any ordinances, rules, regulations, or
permits previously adopted or issued and not in conflict with any of the
provisions of this chapter or which shall be adopted or issued pursuant to law
relating to the use of buildings or premises and, likewise, not in conflict
with this chapter nor is it intended by this chapter to interfere with or
abrogate or annul any easements, covenants, or other agreements between
parties; except, if this chapter imposes a greater restriction, this chapter
shall control.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 20)
§ 156.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or a portion of the main
building, the use of which is incidental to that of the dominant use of the
main building or premises. A mobile home shall not be considered permissible as
an ACCESSORY BUILDING.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
use and located on the same lot with such principal use. An ACCESSORY USE
includes but is not limited to the following:
      (1)   A children’s playhouse, garden house, and private greenhouse;
      (2)   A civil defense shelter serving not more than two families;
      (3)   A garage, shed, or building for domestic storage;
      (4)   Incinerators incidental to residential use; and
      (5)   Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on the same lot
with any retail service or business use, unless such storage is excluded by the
district regulations.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of land for agricultural purposes. This includes
necessary buildings and structures used for agriculture including, but not
limited to, farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture,
floriculture, viticulture, and animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary
accessory uses of packing, treating, or storing produce; provided, however, the
operation of any such accessory uses should be secondary to that of the normal
agricultural activities. Buildings occupied as residences by persons not
engaged in agricultural operations should not be considered to be used for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access
to abutting property.
   ALTERATION. A change or rearrangement of the structural parts or in the exit
facilities or an enlargement, whether by extending on a side or by increasing
in height, or in moving from one location or position to another or by change
in use from that of one district classification to another of a building or
structure.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. See MULTIPLE DWELLING.
   ASSISTED LIVING HOUSING. A dwelling where (for compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods) meals and lodging are provided for elderly
or other persons who require assistance, and where at least one person is
available to assist with the living care, at all times, for residents of
persons who do not constitute a family and are not necessarily related.
   BASEMENT. A story having part but not more than one half its height below
grade. A BASEMENT is counted as a story for the purpose of height regulations,
if subdivided and used for business or dwelling purposes by other than a
janitor employed on the premises.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. A single-family residential dwelling which
shall not be treated as a hotel or other facility serving transient tenants and
meets the following criteria:
      (1)   Has five or fewer sleeping rooms, including sleeping rooms occupied
by the operator, one or more of which are available for rent to transient
tenants;
      (2)   Serves meals at no extra cost to its transient tenants; and
      (3)   Has a smoke detector in proper working order in each sleeping room
and a fire extinguisher in proper working order on each floor.
   BOARD. The duly appointed Board of Appeals, as established in §
156.235.
   BOARD OF APPEALS. The duly appointed Board of Appeals, as established in §
156.235.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building, other than a hotel, where (for compensation and
by prearrangement for definite periods) meals or lodging and meals are provided
for three or more persons but not exceeding 20 persons.
   BUILDING. Any structure for the shelter, support, or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels, or property of any kind, and when separated by dividing
walls without openings, each portion of such building, so separated, shall be
deemed a separate BUILDING. Trailers or mobile homes, as defined herein, shall
not be within the meaning of the term BUILDING. Includes the term STRUCTURE.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof or the
average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The duly appointed or employed officer whose duty is to
enforce the provisions of any zoning ordinance established by the city, as
established in §
156.236 herein.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground and
having half or more than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
   COMMERCIAL RECYCLING. Commercial recycling includes any collection of any
material of any kind for re-utilization in manufacturing, re-manufacturing, or
reprocessing activities and all associated activities and processes including,
but not limited to, collection, storage, transport, or disposal thereof of any
materials that are not household recycling as herein defined.
   DISTRICT. Any section of the city for which the regulations governing the
use of buildings and premises, or the height and area of buildings, are
uniform.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof which is designed or used
exclusively for residential purposes.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy by
three or more families.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for occupancy by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for occupancy by two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof providing complete housekeeping
facilities for one family.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house,
lodging house, or hotel, as herein defined.
   FILLING STATION. Any building or premises used principally for the storing,
dispensing, selling, or offering for sale at retail of automobile fuels or
oils.
   FLOOR AREA (OF A DWELLING UNIT OR LODGING ROOM). The sum of the gross
horizontal areas of the rooms constituting the dwelling unit or lodging room
(including closets, baths, utility rooms, enclosed porches, and hallways) when
accessible only to the other occupants of said dwelling or lodging room and not
accessible to other occupants of the building or to the general public and only
when such rooms, walls, or other areas are an integral part of said dwelling
unit or lodging room. FLOOR AREA shall be measured from the interior faces of
the outermost walls defining the dwelling unit or lodging room but shall not
include any unfinished space or finished space having head room of less than
five feet.
   FRONTAGE. All property abutting on one side of a road, street, or place
between two intersecting roads or places (crossing or terminating) or, if the
road, street, or place is dead-ended, then all the property abutting on one
side between an intersecting road, street, or place and the dead end of the
road, street, or place.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building designed or used for the storage of
not more than five motor-driven vehicles licensed for road use, owned and used
by the occupants of the building to which it is accessory.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof, other than a private or
storage garage, designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring,
selling, or storing motor-driven vehicles.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively
for housing four or more motor-driven vehicles.
   GRADE.
      (1)   For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the elevation
of the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street;
      (2)   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the
average of the elevation of the sidewalk at the centers of all walls adjoining
the streets;
      (3)   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average
level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of
the building; and
      (4)   Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than five feet from
a street line is to be considered as adjoining the street.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on by a member of a
family, residing on the premises, in connection with which there may be used
one sign not more than two square feet in area; provided, no person is employed
other than a member of the immediate family residing on the premises, provided
that such occupation shall not be conducted in a way that would be
objectionable to surrounding residents.
   HOTEL. A building used as the abiding place of more than 20 persons who are
lodged with or without meals for compensation.
   HOUSEHOLD RECYCLING. Includes any activity for the collection of glass, tin
cans, newspapers, plastic, aluminum (cans, foil, pans, cookware, and
furniture), magazines, or textiles from households and the disposal thereof for
re-utilization in manufacturing or other processing activities and all
associated activities and processes including, but not limited to, collection,
storage, transport, and disposal thereof.
   INSTITUTION. A building occupied by a non-profit corporation or a non-profit
establishment for public use.
   LOADING SPACE. A space on the lot accessible to an alley or a street not
less than ten feet in width, 20 feet in length, and ten feet in height.
   LODGING HOUSE. A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to
three or more but not exceeding 20 persons, in contradistinction to hotels open
to transients.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by one main
building together with its accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental
to it, including the open spaces required by this chapter and having its
principal frontage upon a street or upon an officially approved place. This
term includes the word PLOT.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot adjoining two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two non-intersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, REVERSED FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage at right angles to the general
pattern in the area. A REVERSED FRONTAGE lot may also be a corner lot.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets and which is not a corner lot. THROUGH LOTS abutting two
streets may be referred to as DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot, a line separating the lot
from the road, street, or place and, in the case of a corner lot, a line
separating the narrowest frontage of the lot from the street.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is the most distant from and is
or is approximately parallel to the front lot line. If the rear lot line is
less than ten feet in length or if the lot forms a point at the rear, the REAR
LOT LINE shall be deemed to be a line ten feet in length, within the lot,
parallel to, and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds or a lot described
by metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded in the office
of the County Recorder of Deeds.
   LOT WIDTH. The dimension of a lot measured between side lot lines on the
building line and at right angles to the depth of the lot.
   MODULAR HOME (MODULAR DWELLING). Any dwelling with 50% of its construction
complete prior to the time such structure is to be permanently assembled and
affixed to a foundation.
   NONCONFORMING USE. The use of any premises contrary to the use provisions of
this chapter for the district in which the premises are located.
   PARKING LOT. A parcel of land devoted to unenclosed parking spaces.
   PARKING SPACE. An impervious surfaced area, enclosed or unenclosed,
sufficient in size to store one automobile, together with a surfaced driveway
connecting the parking space with a street or alley and permitting ingress and
egress of an automobile.
   PLACE. An open, unoccupied space other than a street or alley permanently
reserved as the principal means of access to adjoining property.
   ROOMING HOUSE (BOARDING HOUSE OR TOURIST HOME). A building or portion
thereof containing lodging rooms which accommodate three or more persons who
are not members of the keeper’s family and where lodging rooms or meals or both
are provided for compensation.
   SIGNS, SIGNBOARDS, or BILLBOARD. Any structure or portion thereof situated
on private premises, on which lettered, figured, or pictoral matter is or is
intended to be displayed for advertising purposes other than the name and
occupation of the user of or the nature of the business conducted on such
premises or the products primarily sold or manufactured thereon. This
definition should not be held to include real estate sign advertising for sale
or to rent the property upon which it stands.
   STORY. The portion of a building, other than a basement, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it or, if
there be no floor above it, the space between the floor and the ceiling next
above it.
   STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection
of roof decking and wall face not more than two-thirds of the floor area is
finished off for use. A HALF-STORY containing independent apartment or living
quarters shall be counted as a full story.
   STREET. All property dedicated or intended for public or private street
purposes or subject to public easements therefor.
   STREET LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of and a
contiguous street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders or any complete
rebuilding of the roof, but this shall not include repairs or maintenance
necessary for the normal upkeep of the building or any rearrangement of
interior partitions.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the ground. Any machinery or equipment weighing in excess of 50,000
pounds shall, for the purpose of this chapter, be considered to be permanently
attached to the ground even though the equipment, under appropriate
circumstances, may be portable and even though the equipment may be equipped
with wheels for its movement from time to time.
   TOURIST OR TRAILER CAMP. An area containing one or more structures designed
or intended to be used as temporary living facilities of two or more families
and intended primarily for automobile transients or providing spaces where two
or more tents or auto trailers can be parked; provided, however, no person or
family shall occupy the parking or living facilities of such a camp for more
than 30 consecutive days.
   TRAILER (MOBILE HOME). Any structure used for living, sleeping, or storage
purposes which has been or reasonably may be equipped with wheels or other
devices for transporting the structure from place to place or which has been
designed to be equipped with wheels or other devices for transporting the
structure from place to place, whether by motor power or other means and
whether located or proposed to be located on a permanent foundation or other
foundation of any type. The term TRAILER shall include camp car and house car.
A TRAILER (MOBILE HOME) may be further defined in accordance with Ordinance 22
(Series 1979-80).
   TRAILER (MOBILE HOME) PARK. An area of land divided into two or more lots or
parking berths platted and laid out to provide sites for trailers permanently
affixed to the land. A TRAILER shall be deemed to be permanently affixed to the
land when its wheels or other transporting device have been removed therefrom
or otherwise fixed so as to prevent ready removal or ready mobility of such
trailer.
   TRAVEL TRAILER COURT. An area of land containing two or more trailers or
providing space where two or more trailers are harbored or parked or intended
to be harbored or parked without being permanently affixed to the land, either
free of charge or for remuneration purposes, and shall include any building,
structure, tent, vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of
the equipment of such court.
   USE. The specific purpose for which land or a building is designed,
arranged, intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained. The
term PERMITTED USE or it’s equivalent shall not be deemed to include any
nonconforming use.
   USE, ACCESSORY. See ACCESSORY USE.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use of land, building, or structure as
distinguished from a subordinate or accessory use.
   USE, SPECIAL. Any building, structure, or use which, on the effective date
of this chapter, complies with the applicable regulations governing special
uses in the zoning districts in which such building, structure, or use is
located.
   YARD. An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except as otherwise provided herein. In measuring a yard, for the
purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard, or
the depth of a rear yard, the minimum horizontal distance between the lot line
and that portion of the main building which is closest to the lot line shall be
used, and no eaves or roof overhang or any other portion or part of the
building or structure shall be closer to the lot line than the minimum width of
the yard as provided herein.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side
yard lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line
and the rear of the main building or any projections, other than steps,
unenclosed balconies, and unenclosed porches. On corner lots, the rear yard
shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least
dimensions. On both corner lots and interior lots, the rear yard shall, in all
cases, be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The duly appointed or employed officer whose duty is
to enforce the provisions of any zoning ordinance established by the city.
   ZONING COMMISSION. The duly appointed Zoning Commission of the City of
Hamilton.
   ZONING DISTRICT MAP(S), MUNICIPAL. Zoning district maps for the City of
Hamilton, Illinois, within Hancock County, which zoning district map shows the
boundaries of the zoning districts for the area inside the limits of said city
and within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits. Zoning district maps
are hereby part of this chapter. See Appendix 2 for lot terms, map, and types
of lot maps.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 2) (Ord. 19 (Series 1985-1986), passed 10-6-
1986; Ord. 3 (Series 1998-1999), passed 5-18-1998; Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004),
passed 7-6-2004)
§ 156.003 DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Types of districts. In order to classify, regulate, and restrict the
locations of trades, industries, and the location of buildings designed for
specified uses; to regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings; to
regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lots; and to regulate and
determine the area of yards, courts, and other open spaces within and
surrounding buildings, the city is hereby divided into districts, of which
there shall be nine in number known as:
“A-1Agricultural District
“A-2Recreational District
“B-1Business Commercial District
“B-2Business Commercial/Residential District
“M-1Light Industrial District
“M-2General Industrial District
“R-1Low Density Residential District
“R-2Medium Density Residential District
“R-3High Density Multi-Family Residential District
“R-4Permanent Mobile Home Park Subdivision District
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 3, § 1)
   (B)   Boundaries. The boundaries of the districts are shown upon the map
made a part of this chapter, which map is designed as the “district map.” The
district map and all the notations, references, and other information shown
thereon were all fully set forth or described herein, which district map is
attached hereto and made a part of this chapter by reference. The original of
each district map(s) shall be properly attested to and filed along with the
official signed and attested copy of the Zoning Ordinance in the office of the
City Clerk. No amendment, new zoning district, new boundary, boundary changes,
or any entries are to be made or become effective in the future after final
adoption of this chapter until after the amendment, new zoning district map,
new boundary, boundary changes, or entries have been recorded, changed, or
entered on said original official zoning district map adopted as a part of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 3, § 2)
   (C)   Interpretation of district boundaries. Where uncertainty exists with
respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts, as shown on the
zoning district maps, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
the center lines of streets or highways, street lines, or highway right-of-way
lines, such center lines, street lines, or highway right-of-way lines shall be
construed to be said boundaries.
      (2)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow the lot lines, township lines, section lines, half section lines,
quarter section lines, and one-eighth section lines, such lines shall be
construed to be said boundaries.
      (3)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are
approximately parallel to the center lines or street lines of streets or the
center lines or right-of-way lines of highways, such district boundaries shall
be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as
indicated on the zoning district map. If no distance is given, such dimension
shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the zoning district map.
      (4)   Where the boundary of a district follows a railroad line, such
boundary shall be deemed to be located in the middle of the main tracks of said
railroad line.
      (5)   Where the boundary of any zoning district follows a stream, lake,
or other body of water, the district boundary line shall be the same as for the
jurisdictional limit of the city unless otherwise indicated.
      (6)   Where the boundaries are either streets or alleys, unless otherwise
shown, and where the districts designated on the map(s) accompanying and made a
part of this chapter are bounded approximately by street or alley lines, the
street or alley shall be construed to be the boundary of the district.
      (7)   Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated and where
the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines, and where the
districts designated on the map(s) accompanying and made a part of this chapter
are bounded approximately by lot lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be
the boundary of the districts unless the boundaries are otherwise indicated on
the map(s).
      (8)   In unsubdivided property, the district boundary lines on the map(s)
accompanying and made part of this chapter shall be determined by use of the
scale appearing on the map(s).
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 3, § 3)
(Ord. 12 (Series 1990-1991), passed 12-3-1990)
§ 156.004 ANNEXATION; VACATION.
   (A)   Annexation. It shall be the responsibility of the City Zoning
Commission, prior to or at the time of annexation, to establish the zoning
district classification for the territory proposed for annexation.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 3, § 4)
   (B)   Vacated areas. Whenever any street, alley, public way, railroad right-
of-way, waterway, or other similar area is vacated by proper authority, the
districts adjoining each side of such street, alley, public way, railroad
right-of-way, or similar area shall be extended automatically to the center of
such vacation, and all area included in the vacation shall then and,
thenceforth, be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended
districts. In the event of partial vacation, the adjoining district or district
nearest the portion vacated shall be extended automatically to include all the
vacated area.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 3, § 5)
§ 156.005 APPLICATION AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Application. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the entire
city and that area within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits of the
city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 3, § 6)
   (B)   Exceptions. Except as hereinafter provided:
      (1)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed,
or structurally altered nor shall any building or land be used except for a
purpose permitted in the district in which the building or land is located;
      (2)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed,
or structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein established for the
district in which the building is located;
      (3)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed,
or structurally altered except in conformity with the area regulations of the
district in which the building is located;
      (4)   The yard regulations and the density of population provisions
required by this chapter are minimum regulations for each and every building
existing at the effective date of this chapter and for any building hereafter
erected or structurally altered. No land required for yards or other open
spaces about an existing building or any building hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be considered a yard or lot area for more than one
building; and
      (5)   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot as herein defined, and in no case shall there be more than one
main building on one lot.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 3, § 7) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.006 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Minimum width. In all districts where residential uses are permitted,
all dwellings shall have a minimum width of 24 feet at the narrowest point at
the first story for a depth of 24 feet, exclusive of add-ons. For the purposes
of this chapter, ADD-ONS shall mean any porches, screened-in areas, extensions,
pullouts, and any other structure that is merely added to the original
structure.
   (B)   Foundations. All dwellings shall be provided with a full perimeter
masonry or concrete foundation system eight inches in width, extending no less
than 36 inches below ground.
   (C)   Requirements. Dwellings which are manufactured housing, substantially
manufactured off-site or containing the yellow seal, shall meet the above
requirements and shall also meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Be provided with permanent electrical, gas, sewer, water, and
drainage connections in accordance with applicable city and state regulations;
      (2)   Maintain a minimum of 24 inches of crawl space under the entire
dwelling;
      (3)   Have permanent steps affixed to all exits;
      (4)   Owners of such dwellings must declare such structure to be real
estate with the real estate tax assessor;
      (5)   The dwelling may not be constructed or equipped with a permanent
hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other than for the purpose of
moving to the permanent site and may not have permanently attached to its body
or frame any axles, wheels, or other support devices must be removed when the
dwelling is installed on the site;
      (6)   The dwelling must have been or shall not be altered in violation of
applicable codes;
      (7)   A substantial portion of the weight of the dwelling must bear on
the perimeter walls; and
      (8)   Roof pitch shall be no less than three inches per lineal foot to
center.
   (D)   Definition. A MOBILE HOME is any dwelling having a red metal label
affixed pursuant to regulations of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) of the United States, pursuant to the National Manufactured
Home Construction and Safety Standards, certifying construction in conformance
with the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards is a
mobile home and may not be constructed or placed in any residential district
but may only be situated in a mobile home park, A-1 District or R-4 District.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 3A) (Ord. 6 (Series 1997-1998), passed 6-16-
1997; Ord. 3 (Series 1998-1999), passed 5-18-1998)
“R-1,” LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.020 ESTABLISHED.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter, when referred to in this subchapter, are the “R-1,” Low Density
Residential District regulations.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 4, § 1)
§ 156.021 PRINCIPAL USES.
   The following are principal uses:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings, excluding mobile homes as defined
herein, modular homes;
   (B)   Single-family detached modular homes;
   (C)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work; and
   (D)   SIGNS, defined as follows:
      (1)   A sign or sign board not exceeding eight square feet in area,
appertaining to the sale or lease of the premises or trespassing thereon;
      (2)   Church or public building bulletin board not exceeding 20 square
feet in area; and
      (3)   Name plate not exceeding two square feet in area.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 4, § 2)
§ 156.022 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses include the following:
   (A)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to permitted
principal uses, including private garages. Any accessory building that is not a
part of the main structure shall be located behind the building setback line of
the main structure and not less than five feet from any other street line.
Accessory uses shall not include the raising of poultry, pets, or livestock on
a scale that would be objectionable because of noise or odor to surrounding
residences. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the principal building has been actually commenced. Accessory
buildings may be constructed on a lot adjoining a lot having a principal
building when both lots have the same owner;
   (B)   Private swimming pools appurtenant to a dwelling on the same lot, when
meeting yard depth and width requirements for principal buildings, in the
district in which they are located and when the swimming pool or property on
which it is located is adequately fenced to prevent access of small children,
and meets all applicable health and sanitary requirements; and
   (C)   The office or studio of a physician, surgeon, dentist, musician,
lawyer, architect, teacher, beauty parlor operator, gift shop operator,
mortician, or other member of a recognized profession in his or her place of
abode, including an instructor in an individual musical instrument limited to a
single pupil at a time, provided that one sign may be used not to exceed two
square feet and provided, further, that not more than the equivalent of one-
half of the individual’s living unit shall be used for office or studio space,
and no more than one paid assistant is employed on the premises.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 4, § 3) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.023 PERMITTED SPECIAL USES.
   After public hearing, pursuant to §
156.222(A), permitted special uses include:
   (A)   Nurseries and truck gardening;
   (B)   Parks, playgrounds, and community buildings owned and operated by a
public agency;
   (C)   Churches, provided that any church constructed on a new site shall
provide off-street parking space upon the lot or within 200 feet thereof, which
space is adequate to accommodate one car for every ten persons for which
seating is provided in the main auditorium of the church, exclusive of the
seating capacity of Sunday school and other special rooms;
   (D)   Public schools, elementary and high, or private schools having a
curriculum equivalent to a public elementary school or public high school and
having no rooms regularly used for housing or sleeping purposes;
   (E)   Golf courses, except courses illuminated for night use or miniature
courses and driving fees operated for commercial purposes; and
   (F)   Assisted living housing.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 4, § 4) (Ord. 19 (Series 1989-1990), passed 3-
5-1990; Ord. 3 (Series 1998-1999), passed 5-18-1998)
§ 156.024 PROHIBITED USES.
   All commercial and industrial uses, with the exception of home occupations
and agricultural uses, are prohibited in the “R-1,” Low Density Residential
Districts.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 4, § 5) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.025 PARKING.
   Off-street parking facilities shall be provided in the ratio of one space
per single-family residential unit. Required parking space shall not be located
in required front or required side yards.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 4, § 6)
§ 156.026 HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No building shall exceed two and one-half stories
or 35 feet in height, except as provided in §
156.221 hereof.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 4, § 7)
   (B)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Front yard.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet.
         (b)   Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall
be provided on both streets.
         (c)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more
streets, there shall be a front yard on each street side of a corner lot;
provided, however, the buildable width of a lot of record at the time of the
passage of this chapter need not be reduced to less than 35 feet, except where
necessary to provide a yard along the side street with a depth of not less than
five feet. No accessory building shall project beyond the front yard line on
either street.
      (2)   Side yard. Except as provided in §
156.221 hereof, there shall be a side yard on each side of a building having a
width of not less than five feet or 10% of the average width of the lot,
whichever amount is smaller; provided, no side yard shall have a width of less
than three feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. Except as provided in §
156.221 hereof, there shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than 30
feet or 20% of the depth of the lot, whichever amount is smaller.
 
Fence Type          Maximum Height Distance From Lot      Allowed on Side Front
                                   Lines                  Rear
Accessory           4 feet         On line                x
Decorative or chain                On line or if sidewalk
link                4 feet         12 inches from         x
                                   sidewalks
Privacy fences      6 feet         On line                x
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 4, § 8) (Ord. 19 (Series 1992-1993), passed 4-
3-1993)
§ 156.027 INTENSITY OF USE.
   All buildings including accessory buildings shall cover not more than 40% of
the area of the lot. Every “R-1” residential lot shall have an area of not less
than 7,000 square feet per family and an average width of not less than 50
feet, except that if a lot of record has less area or width than herein
required and has been duly recorded prior to the date of the passage of this
chapter, such lot may be used for any purpose permitted in this subchapter.
 
Lot Area                        Lot Width Lot Frontage
7,000 square feet/dwelling unit 50 feet   50 feet
 
Yard Requirements           Height Requirements            Off-Street Parking
Front: 25 feet unit
Corner: 25 feet on each
street side of a corner lot Two and one half stories or 35
Rear: 30 feet or 20% of lot feet                           One space/dwelling
depth, whichever is less     
Side: 5 feet or 10% of
average width
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 4, § 9)
§ 156.028 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In the “R-1” District, there shall be not more than one principal
detached residential building on a lot nor shall a principal detached
residential building be located on the same lot with another principal
building.
   (B)   No mechanical device designed for the purpose of controlling the
internal environment of any structure shall be permitted in any front yard or
within eight feet of any lot line in the “R-1,” Residential District.
   (C)   No accessory structures shall be constructed closer than five feet to
any lot line nor in any side yard or front yard except a driveway not closer
than two feet along a lot line. Fences may be located as provided in the
attached chart.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 4, § 10) (Ord. 19 (Series 1992-1993), passed
4-19-1993) Penalty, see §
156.999
“R-2,” MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.040 ESTABLISHED.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter, when referred to in this subchapter, are the “R-2,” Medium Density
Residential District regulations.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 5, § 1)
§ 156.041 PRINCIPAL USES.
   Principal uses include:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings;
   (B)   Single-family detached modular homes;
   (C)   Two-family detached residential dwelling units;
   (D)   Single-family attached dwellings (row houses and town houses), not to
exceed ten dwelling units or apartments per structure;
   (E)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction
work; and
   (F)   Signs, as defined in §
156.021(D).
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 5, § 2)
§ 156.042 ACCESSORY USES.
   Permitted accessory use shall be identical to those set forth for the “R-1,”
Low Density District in §
156.022, except that storage garages accessory to hospitals or institutional
buildings shall be located not less than 60 feet from the front lot line and
not less than five feet from any other street line when such storage garages
are not a part of the main building.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 5, § 3)
§ 156.043 SPECIAL USES.
   After public hearing, pursuant to §
156.222(A), special uses include:
   (A)   Parks, playgrounds, and community buildings owned and operated by a
public agency;
   (B)   Non-profit hospitals and clinics but not animal hospitals, animal
clinics, or mental hospitals;
   (C)   Non-profit religious, educational, and philanthropic institutions but
not penal or mental treatment institutions;
   (D)   Public schools, elementary and high, or private schools having a
curriculum equivalent to a public elementary school or public high school and
having no rooms regularly used for housing or sleeping purposes;
   (E)   Churches, subject to the provisions set forth in §
156.023(C).
   (F)   Rooming houses, as defined in §
156.002, providing that such houses shall contain no more than eight sleeping
rooms; and
   (G)   Private clubs, fraternities, sororities, and lodges, excepting those
the chief activity of which is a service customarily carried on as a business.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 5, § 4) (Ord. 19 (Series 1989-1990), passed 3-
5-1990)
§ 156.044 PARKING.
   (A)   Each single-family detached dwelling, two-family detached dwelling,
private club, fraternity, sorority, lodge, or rooming house shall provide off-
street parking in the ratio of one space per living unit. Required parking
space shall not be located in required front or required side yards.
   (B)   Single-family attached dwellings shall provide off-street parking in
the ratio of two spaces per living unit. Required parking space shall not be
located in required front or required side yards.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 5, § 5)
§ 156.045 HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations.
      (1)   No building shall exceed three stories or 45 feet, except as
provided in §
156.221.
      (2)   The height regulations set forth in the “R-1,” Low Density
Residential District regulations shall apply to single-family detached
dwellings, to single-family detached modular homes, and to two-family detached
residential dwellings in the “R-2,” Medium Density Residential District.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 5, § 6)
   (B)   Area regulations. Area regulations for front, side, rear, and corner
yards are identical to area regulations for front, side, rear, and corner yards
in the “R-1,” Low Density Residential District regulations.
 
Fence Type          Maximum Height Distance From Lot      Allowed on Side Front
                                   Lines                  Rear
Accessory           4 feet         On line                x
Decorative or chain                On line or if sidewalk
link                4 feet         12 inches from         x
                                   sidewalks
Privacy fence       6 feet         On line                x
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 5, § 7) (Ord. 19 (Series 1992-1993), passed 4-
19-1993)
§ 156.046 INTENSITY OF USE.
   Except as hereinafter provided, all dwellings hereafter erected, enlarged,
converted, relocated, or reconstructed shall be located on lots containing the
following areas.
   (A)   A lot on which a single-family detached residential dwelling unit is
situated shall have an area of not less than 7,000 square feet.
   (B)   A lot on which a single-family detached modular home is situated shall
have an area of not less than 7,000 square feet.
   (C)   A lot on which a two-family detached residential dwelling unit is
situated shall have an area of not less than 3,500 square feet per living unit.
   (D)   A lot on which a single-family attached dwelling is situated shall
have an area of not less than 2,500 square feet per dwelling unit.
   (E)   A lot on which a private club, fraternity, sorority, lodge, or rooming
house is situated shall have an area of not less than 7,000 square feet.
   (F)   A lot on which a single-family detached residential unit is situated
shall have an average width of not less than 50 feet and shall conform to all
other area, intensity of use, and parking regulations as provided in the “R-1,”
Low Density Residential District regulations of this chapter.
   (G)   A lot on which a two-family detached residential dwelling unit is
situated shall have an average width of not less than 80 feet.
   (H)   A lot on which a single-family attached dwelling is situated shall
have an average width of not less than 30 feet per living space.
   (I)   A lot on which a private club, fraternity, sorority, lodge, or rooming
house is situated shall have an average width of not less than 80 feet.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 5, § 8)
§ 156.047 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No mechanical device designed for the purpose of controlling the
internal environment of any structure shall be permitted in any front yard or
within eight feet of any lot line in the “R-2,” Residential District.
   (B)   No accessory structures shall be constructed closer than five feet to
any lot line nor in either side or front yard except a driveway not closer than
two feet along a lot line. Fences may be located as provided in the attached
chart.
   (C)   Except as provided on the attached chart, any fence over four feet in
height may be constructed on any lot line only by variance issued by the Zoning
Board of Appeals. On any such application, the filing fee is waived and the
applicant shall pay only the cost of publication notice. The Board may
authorize fences on lot lines not otherwise authorized only after finding the
proposed fence is not a traffic hazard and does not block traffic visibility in
any manner or endanger children or pedestrians.
   (D)   See Appendix 3, District R-2 Medium Density Residential District
minimum lot area, lot width, lot frontage, and minimum yard requirements,
height requirements, off-street parking, and lot coverage.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 5, § 9) (Ord. 19 (Series 1992-1993), passed 4-
19-1993) Penalty, see §
156.999
“R-3,” HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.060 ESTABLISHED.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter, when referred to in this subchapter, are the “R-3,” High Density
Residential District regulations.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 6, § 1)
§ 156.061 PRINCIPAL USES.
   Principal uses include:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the “R-2,” Medium Density Residential District;
   (B)   Residential District regulations, with the exception of single-family
detached dwellings and single-family detached modular homes; and
   (C)   Multi-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 6, § 2)
§ 156.062 ACCESSORY USES.
   Permitted accessory uses for the “R-3” District shall be identical to those
set forth in this chapter for the “R-1,” Low Density Residential District at §
156.221(D), except that storage garages accessory to multiple dwellings,
hospitals, or institutional buildings shall be located not less than 60 feet
from any other street line when such storage garages are not a part of the main
building.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 6, § 3)
§ 156.063 SPECIAL USES.
   After public hearing, pursuant to §
156.222(A), permitted special uses shall be identical to those set forth in the
“R-2,” Medium Density Residential District regulations at §
156.043.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 6, § 4) (Ord. 19 (Series 1989-1990), passed 3-
5-1990)
§ 156.064 PARKING.
   (A)   Each two-family detached dwelling, private club, fraternity, sorority,
lodge, or rooming house shall provide off-street parking in the ratio of one
space per living unit. Required parking space shall not be located in required
front or required side yards.
   (B)   Each single-family attached dwelling and each multi-family dwelling
shall provide off-street parking in the ratio of two spaces per living unit.
Required parking space shall not be located in required front or required side
yards.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 6, § 5)
§ 156.065 HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations.
      (1)   No two-family detached residential dwelling in the “R-3,”
Residential District shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in
height.
      (2)   No single-family attached dwelling (row house or town house) or
multi-family dwelling in the “R-3,” Residential District shall exceed three
stories for 45 feet in height.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 6, § 6)
   (B)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Front yard.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 20
feet.
         (b)   Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall
be provided on both streets.
         (c)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more
streets, there shall be a front yard on each side street of a corner lot;
provided, however, the buildable width of a lot of record at the time of
passage of this chapter need not be reduced to less than 35 feet except where
necessary to provide a yard along a side street with a depth of not less than
five feet. No accessory building shall project beyond the front yard line on
either street.
      (2)   Side yard. Except as provided for in §
156.221, there shall be a side yard on each side of a building having a width
of not less than five feet or 10% of the average width of the lot, whichever
amount is smaller; provided, no side yard shall have a width of less than three
feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. Except as provided for in §
156.221 hereof:
         (a)   Lots on which a two-family detached dwelling, single-family
attached dwelling (row house or town house), fraternity, sorority, lodge, or
rooming house is situated shall have a rear yard of not less than 30 feet or
20% of the depth of the lot, whichever amount is smaller; and
         (b)   Lots on which a multi-family dwelling is situated shall have a
rear yard of not less than 20 feet.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 6, § 7)
§ 156.066 INTENSITY OF USE.
   Except as hereinafter provided, all dwellings hereinafter erected, enlarged,
concerted, relocated, or reconstructed shall be located on lots containing the
following areas.
   (A)   A lot on which a two-family detached residential dwelling unit is
situated shall have an area of not less than 3,500 square feet per living unit.
   (B)   A lot on which a single-family attached dwelling is situated shall
have an area of not less than 2,500 square feet per living unit.
   (C)   A lot on which a private club, fraternity, sorority, lodge, or rooming
house is situated shall have an area of not less than 7,000 square feet.
   (D)   Multi-family dwellings shall be located on lots which provide two
minimum buildable lot areas per dwelling unit, as follows:
      (1)   Efficiency apartments: 1,000 square feet;
      (2)   Apartments with one bedroom: 1,200 square feet; and
      (3)   Apartments with two or more bedrooms: 1,500 square feet.
   (E)   No multi-family or single-family attached dwelling shall be
constructed with a total lot area of less than 11,000 square feet.
   (F)   See Appendix 4, District R-3 High Density Residential District minimum
lot area, lot width, lot frontage, and minimum yard requirements, height
requirements, and off-street parking.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 6, § 8)
“R-4,” PERMANENT MOBILE HOME PARK SUBDIVISION DISTRICT
§ 156.080 ESTABLISHED.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter, when referred to in this subchapter, are the “R-4,” Permanent Mobile
Home Park Subdivision District regulations.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 7, § 1)
§ 156.081 ADOPTION OF THE SUGGESTED MOBILE HOME ORDINANCE.
   There is hereby adopted the Suggested Mobile Home Ordinance and incorporated
as if fully set out herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Appendix A)
§ 156.082 PRINCIPAL USES.
   Trailers (mobile homes) to be used as single-family dwellings placed on a
lot on a permanent foundation, permanently anchored to the ground for a period
of at least 60 days, provided that the regulations set forth in the City Mobile
Home Ordinance are complied with.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 7, § 2)
§ 156.083 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses include:
   (A)   Private recreational and hobby uses such as swimming pools, tennis
courts, gardens, and greenhouses;
   (B)   Canopies, carports, and awnings;
   (C)   Accessory units or expansion units, but only when specifically
designed for mobile home use;
   (D)   Management and maintenance offices including storage facilities for
grounds-keeping equipment; and
   (E)   Individual tenant storage facilities, either located on the lot or in
compounds located not more than 500 feet from the mobile home lot.
      (1)   Such storage facilities shall be designed in a manner that will
enhance the appearance of the mobile home park subdivision and shall be
constructed of suitable weather-resistant materials.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum of 90 cubic feet provided for general
storage for each mobile home lot.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 7, § 3)
§ 156.084 SPECIAL USES.
   After public hearing, pursuant to §
156.222(A), the use of any mobile home as temporary living or office space
while a building or structure is under construction is a special use.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 7, § 4) (Ord. 19 (Series 1989-1990), passed 3-
5-1990)
§ 156.085 PARKING.
   Two off-street parking spaces for each mobile home dwelling shall be
provided. No motor vehicle parked on a mobile home lot shall be parked nearer
than ten feet to any adjoining mobile home. Paved areas for guests shall be
provided in the ratio of one space for every four dwelling unit lots.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 7, § 5)
§ 156.086 HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No building, structure, or dwelling in a mobile
home park subdivision shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in
height.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 7, § 6)
   (B)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Front yard.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard having the depth of not less than 20
feet.
         (b)   Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall
be provided on both streets.
         (c)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more
streets, there shall be a front yard on each street side of a corner lot.
      (2)   Side yard. There shall be a side yard on each side of a mobile home
having a depth of not less than ten feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. Each lot on which a mobile home dwelling is placed shall
have a rear yard of not less than 20 feet.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 7, § 7)
§ 156.087 INTENSITY OF USE.
   (A)   Each mobile home dwelling (including accessory buildings, garages, and
porches) shall cover no more than 70% of each subdivision lot or of each
private lot.
   (B)   Each mobile home hereafter placed upon a subdivision lot shall have a
total ground floor area of not less than 500 square feet as measured from the
outside of exterior walls, including utility rooms, but excluding open porches,
breezeways, and garages.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 7, § 8)
§ 156.088 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The zoning procedures and use requirements for the “R-4,” Residential
Mobile Home Park District shall conform to the requirements set forth in the
City Mobile Home Ordinance, as adopted.
   (B)   See Appendix 5, District “R-4” Permanent Mobile Home Park Subdivision
District minimum area, lot area, lot frontage, minimum yard requirements,
height requirements, off-street parking and maximum lot coverage.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 7, § 9)
“B-1,” BUSINESS COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.100 ESTABLISHED.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter, when referred to in this subchapter, are the regulations for the “B-
1,” Business Commercial District.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8, § 1)
§ 156.101 PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   All residential use in this district is prohibited, with the exception
of residential units above the first floor, as provided for in §
156.104(G).
   (B)   The manufacture of production of any good is prohibited in District
“B-1,” except as noted in §
156.104(A).
   (C)   All business, service, storage, merchandise display, repair, and
processing shall be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8, § 2) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.102 PRINCIPAL USES.
   Principal uses include:
   (A)   The sale of retail goods (such as hardware, food, wearing apparel,
home furnishings, books, jewelry) and cafes and restaurants;
   (B)   Business and professional offices including banks; medical, dental,
and chiropractic clinics; and veterinary clinics without open kennels;
   (C)   The sale of services such as barber shops, beauty parlors, bicycle
repair, appliance repair, photography studios, plumbing shops, tailoring, shoe
repair, upholstery repair, undertaking establishments, food storage lockers,
and business, dancing, or musical schools;
   (D)   Recreational uses such as bowling alleys, billiard parlors, and game
arcades when conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building; and
   (E)   Other retail uses similar in bulk, scale, and intensity.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8, § 3)
§ 156.103 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses include uses clearly incidental to but necessary for the
principal uses.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8, § 4)
§ 156.104 SPECIAL USES.
   After public hearing, pursuant to §
156.222(A), special uses include:
   (A)   The production of good for sale on the premises such as bakeries and
printing establishments;
   (B)   Furnace, heating, and sheet metal shops or stores; not more than 10%
of the lot or tract of land occupied by such establishments shall be used for
the open and unenclosed storage of materials or equipment;
   (C)   Storage, sale, or repair of new or used automobiles;
   (D)   Indoor theaters; no theater shall be erected or reconstructed unless
subject to the parking restrictions noted in §
156.105(B);
   (E)   Retail dying and cleaning works including self-service establishments;
   (F)   Filling stations and motor vehicle servicing facilities and the sale
and storage of fuels and petroleum products, provided that all volatile fuels
kept on the premises incident to such uses shall be stored below grade level;
   (G)   Residential dwelling units above the first floors of buildings; and
   (H)   Taverns and retail package liquor stores.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8, § 5) (Ord. 19 (Series 1989-1990), passed 3-
5-1990; Ord. 3 (Series 1998-1999), passed 5-18-1998)
§ 156.105 PARKING.
   (A)   Commercial buildings shall provide permanent off-street parking on the
lot in the ratio of one parking space for each 300 square feet of floor space
in a building; provided, however, two or more establishments may provide
necessary parking spaces within the “B-1,” Business Commercial District and
within the 300 feet of the establishment (except that this requirement will not
apply to property of Broadway between 8th and 13th Streets).
   (B)   No theater or auditoriums shall be erected or reconstructed unless
there is provided on the same lot or within 300 feet thereof a space of off-
street parking which contains an area adequate to accommodate one automobile
for every four seats in the theater, except that this requirement will not
apply to property on Broadway between 8th and 13th Streets.
   (C)   No dwelling unit (including those in hotels, tourist homes, and
motels) shall be erected or reconstructed unless there is provided on the same
lot or within 300 feet thereof off-street parking in the ratio of one space per
dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8, § 6)
§ 156.106 HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No building shall exceed four stories or 60 feet
in height, except as otherwise provided in §
156.221 hereof.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8, § 7)
   (B)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Front yard. No front yard is required unless a block is partly in
an “R,” Residential District and partly in the “B-1,” Business Commercial
District; in which event, the front yard regulations of that “R,” Residential
District shall apply.
      (2)   Side yard. A side yard is not required except on the side of the
lot adjoining an “R,” Residential District; in which case, there shall be a
side yard of not less than five feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. No rear yard shall be required except where a lot abuts
on an “R,” Residential District; in which event, there shall be a rear yard of
not less than ten feet.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8, § 8)
§ 156.107 INTENSITY OF USE.
   (A)   The intensity of use regulations shall apply to living facilities
above stores and to other commercial uses as well as to residential buildings
and shall be the same as those of the “R-2,” Medium Density Residential
District.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. The minimum lot area in the “B-1,” Business
Commercial District shall be 1,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width in the “B-1,” Business
Commercial District shall be 20 feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot frontage. The minimum lot frontage in the “B-1,”
Business Commercial District shall be 20 feet.
   (B)   See Appendix 6, District “B-1” Business Commercial District minimum
lot area, lot width, and lot frontage requirements.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8, § 9)
“B-2,” BUSINESS COMMERCIAL/RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.120 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The regulations set forth in this subchapter or set forth elsewhere in
this chapter, where referred to in this subchapter, are the regulations for the
“B-2,” Business Commercial/Residential District.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8A, § 1)
   (B)   The provisions of §
156.999 shall be applicable hereto.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8A, § 12)
(Ord. 12 (Series 1990-1991), passed 12-3-1990)
§ 156.121 PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   Residential use in this district is allowed only as provided for in §
156.124(I).
   (B)   The manufacture or production of any good is prohibited in District
“B-2,” except as noted in §
156.124(A).
   (C)   All business, service, storage, merchandise display, repair, and
processing shall be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8A, § 2) (Ord. 12 (Series 1990-1991), passed
12-3-1990) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.122 PRINCIPAL USES.
   Principal uses include:
   (A)   The sale of retail goods (such as hardware, food, wearing apparel,
home furnishings, books, jewelry), cafes, and restaurants;
   (B)   Business and professional offices including banks; medical, dental,
and chiropractic clinics; and veterinary clinics without open kennels;
   (C)   The sale of services such as barber shops, beauty parlors, bicycle
repair, appliance repair, photography studios, plumbing shops, tailoring, shoe
repair, upholstery repair, undertaking establishments, food storage locker, and
business, dancing, or music schools;
   (D)   Recreational uses such as bowling alleys, billiard parlors, and game
arcades when conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building; and
   (E)   Other retail uses similar in bulk, scale, and intensity.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8A, § 3) (Ord. 12 (Series 1990-1991), passed
12-3-1990)
§ 156.123 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses include uses clearly incidental to but necessary for the
principal uses.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8A, § 4) (Ord. 12 (Series 1990-1991), passed
12-3-1990)
§ 156.124 SPECIAL USES.
   Special uses include:
   (A)   The production of goods for sale on the premises such as bakeries and
printing establishments;
   (B)   Furnace, heating, and sheet metal shops or stores; not more than 10%
of the lot or tract of land occupied by such establishments shall be used for
the open and unenclosed storage of materials or equipment;
   (C)   Storage, sales, or repair of new or used automobiles;
   (D)   Hotels, tourist homes, and motels;
   (E)   The store sales and service, including vulcanizing;
   (F)   Indoor theaters; no theaters shall be erected or reconstructed unless
subject to the parking restrictions noted in §
156.125(B);
   (G)   Retail dying and cleaning works, laundries, and launderettes including
self-service establishments;
   (H)   Filling stations and motor vehicle servicing facilities and the sale
and storage of fuel and petroleum products; provided, all volatile fuels kept
on the premises incident to such uses shall be stored below grade level;
   (I)   Any residential dwelling units authorized in an “R-3” District; and
   (J)   Taverns and retail package liquor stores.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8A, § 5) (Ord. 12 (Series 1990-1991), passed
12-3-1990)
§ 156.125 PARKING.
   (A)   Commercial buildings shall provide permanent off-street parking on the
lot in the ratio of one parking space for each 300 square feet of floor space
in the building; provided, however, two or more establishments may provide
necessary parking spaces within the “B-2,” Business Commercial/Residential
District and within the 300 feet of the establishment.
   (B)   No theater or auditorium shall be erected or reconstructed unless
there is provided on the same lot or within 300 feet thereof a space of off-
street parking which contains an area adequate to accommodate one automobile
for every four seats in the theater.
   (C)   No dwelling unit (including those in hotels, tourist homes, and
motels) shall be erected or reconstructed unless there is provided on the same
lot or within 300 feet thereof off-street parking in the ratio of one space per
dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8A, § 6) (Ord. 12 (Series 1990-1991), passed
12-3-1990)
§ 156.126 HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No building shall exceed four stories or 60 feet
in height, except as otherwise provided in §
156.221 hereof.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8A, § 7)
   (B)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Front yard. No front yard is required unless a block is partly in
an “R,” Residential District and partly in the “B-2,” Business Commercial/
Residential District; in which event, the front yard regulations of the “R,”
Residential District shall apply.
      (2)   Side yard. A side yard is not required except on the side of a lot
adjoining an “R,” Residential District; in which case, there shall be a yard of
not less than five feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. No rear yard shall be required except where a lot abuts
on an “R,” Residential District; in which event, there shall be a rear yard of
not less than ten feet.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8A, § 8)
(Ord. 12 (Series 1990-1991), passed 12-3-1990)
§ 156.127 INTENSITY OF USE
   The intensity of use regulations shall apply to living facilities above
stores and to other commercial uses as well as to residential buildings and
shall be the same as those of the “R-2,” Medium Density Residential District.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. The minimum lot area in the “B-2,” Business
Commercial/Residential District shall be 1,000 square feet.
   (B)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width in the “B-2,” Business
Commercial/Residential District shall be 20 feet.
   (C)   Minimum lot frontage. The minimum lot frontage in the “B-2,” Business
Commercial/Residential District shall be 20 feet.
 
Minimum Lot Area Frontage Minimum Lot Width Minimum Lot
1,000 square feet         20 feet           20 feet
 
Yard Requirements        Height                     Off-Street Parking
If adjoining an “R,”
Residential District:    Four stories or 60         One space per 300 square
Corner: 25 feet          feet in height; exceptions feet of building floor
Rear: 10 feet         for public or              (commercial); one per
Side: 5 feet          semi-public buildings and  dwelling unit
                         schools, hospitals, and     
Space front: 24 feet     institutions
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 8A, § 10) (Ord. 12 (Series 1990-1991), passed
12-3-1990)
“M-1,” LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.140 ESTABLISHED.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter, when referred to in this subchapter, are the “M-1,” Light Industrial
District regulations.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 9, § 1)
§ 156.141 PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   All commercial and residential uses in this district are prohibited
unless such uses are provided for elsewhere in this subchapter.
   (B)   Any manufacturing or processing activity which is not conducted
entirely within closed buildings in prohibited in District “M-1,” unless
otherwise provided for in this subchapter.
   (C)   Heavy industrial activities including, but not limited to, such
activities as chemical refining or manufacturing; gasoline, petroleum, tar,
creosote, or other flammable liquids manufacture, treatment, or storage;
foundries, coke ovens, or forges; ore reduction or smelting; stone milling or
quarrying; cement, lime, mortar, gypsum, or plaster manufacturing or mixing at
a central plant; brick, tile, pottery, or terra cotta manufacture (excluding
handicrafts); rendering, distillation, or reduction of animal products, coal,
or wood; reduction or dumping or garbage, offal, or dead animals; glue, size,
gelatine,
tallow, grease, or lard manufacture; the slaughter of animals or fowls;
tanning, curing, or storage of raw hides or skins; manufacture of soap other
than liquid soap; operation of stockyards or confinement facilities; fertilizer
manufacture; vehicle wrecking; bag cleaning; boiler works; arsenals; planing
mills, rolling mills, and other uses which are noxious or offensive by reason
of the emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gas odors, noises, or vibrations beyond
the confines of the building are prohibited in the “M-1” District.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 9, § 2) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.142 PRINCIPAL USES.
   Principal uses include: limited manufacturing and processing activities such
as bottling plants, warehousing, research installations, truck terminals and
cartage facilities, contractor’s yards, sheet metal shops, welding or machine
shops, canneries, printing plants, packaging plants, dairies, wholesale
storage, building materials yards where no mill work is done, cabinet making
establishments using motor no larger than ten horsepower, optical goods
factories, and other uses of similar scale and intensity.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 9, § 3)
§ 156.143 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses include:
   (A)   Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed one year; and
   (B)   Uses clearly incidental but not necessary to the principal use.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 9, § 4)
§ 156.144 SPECIAL USES.
   Special uses include:
   (A)   Utility substations;
   (B)   Communications towers and stations; and
   (C)   Commercial establishments.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 9, § 5)
§ 156.145 PARKING.
   Light industrial and commercial establishments shall provide permanent off-
street parking on the lot in the ratio of one parking space for each two
employees, plus one parking space for each company vehicle.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 9, § 6)
§ 156.146 HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No building structure shall exceed four stories or
60 feet in height above grade, except as provided for in §
156.221 hereof.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 9, § 7)
   (B)   Area regulations. After public hearing, pursuant to §
156.222(A), the following shall apply.
      (1)   Front yard.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet, except as provided for in §
156.221 hereof.
         (b)   Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall
be provided on both streets.
      (2)   Side yard. Except as provided for in §
156.221 hereof, there shall be a side yard on each side of a principal
building, which yard shall have a width of not less than 15 feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. Except as provided in §
156.221 hereof, there shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet.
      (4)   Front yards on corner lots. Where a lot is located at the
intersection of two or more streets, there shall be a front yard having a depth
of not less than 25 feet on each street side of the lot; provided, however, the
buildable width of a lot of record at the time of passage of this section is
not reduced to less than 35 feet, except where necessary to provide a yard
along a side street with a depth of not less than five feet. No accessory
building shall project beyond the front yard line on either street.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 9, § 8) (Ord. 19 (Series 1989-1990), passed 3-
5-1990)
§ 156.147 INTENSITY OF USE.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. The minimum lot area in the “M-1,” Light Industrial
District shall be one-half acre.
   (B)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width in the “M-1,” Light
Industrial District shall be 150 feet.
   (C)   Minimum lot frontage. The minimum lot frontage in the “M-1,” Light
Industrial District shall be 100 feet.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 9, § 9)
§ 156.148 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   District “M-1,” properties within 150 feet of Residential or Business
Commercial Districts shall provide effective screening around open areas if
such areas are used for storage or for any industrial purpose other than
transportation of goods between buildings. Such screening shall consist of
densely planted trees, shrubs, or hedge not less than ten feet in height or of
a ten-foot high wall or fence. This planting strip shall be at least six feet
wide and shall be considered part of the required yard.
   (B)   See Appendix 7, area, lot width, and District “M-1,” Light Industrial
District lot frontage requirements.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 9, § 10)
“M-2,” GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.160 ESTABLISHED.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter, when referred to in this subchapter, are the “M-2,” Industrial
District regulations.   
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 10, § 1)
§ 156.161 PROHIBITED USES.
   Commercial and residential use in District “M-2” is prohibited unless
otherwise provided for in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 10, § 2) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.162 PRINCIPAL USES.
   Permitted principal uses in the “M-2,” General Industrial District shall be
identical to the permitted
principal uses set forth for the “M-1,” Light Industrial District at §
156.142.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 10, § 3)
§ 156.163 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses include:
   (A)   Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed one year; and
   (B)   Uses clearly incidental but necessary to the principal use.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 10, § 4)
§ 156.164 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   After public hearing, pursuant to §
156.222(A), any building or premises may be used for any purpose not in
conflict with any ordinance of the city regulating nuisances; provided,
however, no building permit shall be issued for any of the following uses until
and unless the location of such use shall have been approved by the City
Council after report by the City Zoning Commission.
   (B)   Special uses include:
      (1)   Utility substations;
      (2)   Communications towers and stations;
      (3)   Commercial establishments;
      (4)   Acid manufacture;
      (5)   Cement, lime, mortar, gypsum, or plaster manufacturing or mixing at
a central plant;
      (6)   Slaughter of animals and fowl;
      (7)   Rendering, distillation, or reduction of animal products;
      (8)   Tanning, curing, or storage of raw hides or skins;
      (9)   Operation of stockyards or confinement facilities;
      (10)   Reduction or dumping of garbage, offal, or dead animals;
      (11)   Manufacture or storage of explosives;
      (12)   Fertilizer manufacture;
      (13)   Gas manufacture;
      (14)   Glue manufacture;
      (15)   Refining or storage of petroleum or its products;
      (16)   Junk, iron, or rag storage or baling; and
      (17)   Other uses of similar scale and intensity.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 10, § 5)
§ 156.165 PARKING.
   Business commercial, light industrial, and general industrial establishments
in the “M-2” District shall provide permanent off-street parking on the lot in
the ratio of one parking space for each two employees, plus one parking space
for each company vehicle.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 10, § 6)
§ 156.166 HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No building or structure shall exceed four stories
or 60 feet in height above grade, except as provided hereinafter at §
156.221.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 10, § 7)
   (B)   Area regulations. Area regulations for the “M-2,” General Industrial
District shall be identical to the area regulations for the “M-1,” Light
Industrial District, as set forth at §
156.146(B), except that there shall be no minimum rear yard depth requirement
in the “M-2” District.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 10, § 8)
§ 156.167 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   District “M-2” properties within 150 feet of residential or business
commercial districts shall provide effective screening around open areas if
such areas are used for storage or for any industrial purpose other than the
transportation of goods between buildings. Such screening shall consist of
densely planted trees, shrubs, or hedges not less than ten feet in height or of
a ten-foot high wall or fence. This planting strip shall be a least six feet
wide and shall be considered part of the required yard.
   (B)   See Appendix 7, District “M-2,” General Industrial District lot area,
lot width, and lot frontage requirements.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 10, § 9)
“A-1,” AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 156.180 ESTABLISHED.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter, when referred to in this subchapter, are the regulations for the “A-
1,” Agricultural District.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 11, § 1)
§ 156.181 PRINCIPAL USES.
   Principal uses include:
   (A)   Single-family residential dwellings associated with bona-fide
agricultural uses included within this district;
   (B)   Farms for the growing of the usual farm products such as vegetables,
fruit, trees, and grain and their storage on the area. The term FARMING
includes the operating of such an area for one or more of the above uses,
including the necessary accessory uses for the treating or storage of produce;
provided, however, the operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary
to that of normal farming activities and provided, further, that FARMING shall
not include the extraction of mineral;
   (C)   Roadside stands offering for sale only farm products produced on the
premises, provided that such stands are located not less than 50 feet form a
street or highway right-of-way;
   (D)   Open-air recreational uses such as parks and playgrounds;
   (E)   Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed one year;
   (F)   Home occupations, as defined, in §
156.002;
   (G)   Private recreational and hobby uses such as swimming pools, tennis
courts, gardens, and greenhouses; and
   (H)   Sale of nursery and greenhouse products where production or growth of
products takes place on the premises.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 11, § 2)
§ 156.182 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Billboard and sign boards subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   No billboard or sign board shall be located within 400 feet of any
“R” District.
      (2)   No billboard or sign board shall contain more than 300 square feet
of surface area nor exceed in height 25 feet above the average grade.
      (3)   Billboards or sign boards may have constant or flashing
illumination, provided that any such sign located in the direct line of vision
of any traffic control signaling device shall not have contrasting or flashing
intermittent illumination of red, green, or amber color. Where a sign is
illuminated by light reflected upon it, direct rays of light shall not project
upon any part of any existing state or federal highway right-of-way or existing
residential structure in any “R” District.
   (B)   SIGNS, defined as follows:
      (1)   Signs accessory to roadside stands shall be limited to two per lot
with no sign larger than 40 square feet and set back 30 feet from the right-of-
way. Such signs shall be less than 15 feet in height and pertain to
agricultural products offered for sale and identification of such stand;
      (2)   A real estate sign of a temporary nature, not exceeding two in
number per lot nor exceeding 40 square feet in area. Such signs shall be 15
feet or less in height and set back 30 feet from any highway, street, or road
right-of-way;
      (3)   Small announcement signs not exceeding four square feet in area
placed no closer than 20 feet from any right-of-way. An announcement sign or
bulletin board not over 12 square feet in area, set back 20 feet from any
right-of-way, may be erected in connection with any non-residential permitted
principal use in the “A-1,” Agricultural District; and
      (4)   A sign or signs flat against the building appertaining to a
nonconforming use on the premises, not exceeding in the aggregated 50 square
feet in area, except as may be authorized by the City Council.
   (C)   Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed one year.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 11, § 3)
§ 156.183 SPECIAL USES.
   After public hearing, pursuant to §
156.222(A), special uses include:
   (A)   Farms for the raising thereon of the usual farm poultry and farm
livestock such as horses, cattle, sheep, and swine, and including dairy farms
with the necessary accessory uses for treating and storing the produce;
provided, however, no poultry or livestock are housed closer than 1,000 feet
from any lot in a “R,” “B,” “M,” or “A-2” District or any lot occupied by a
dwelling or by any school, church, or institution for human care;
   (B)   Cemeteries;
   (C)   Radio and television studios or transmitting stations;
   (D)   Pasturing provided that livestock feeding facilities or terminal
facilities are no closer than 1,000 feet to any lot in any “R,” “B,” “M,” or
“A-2” District or to any lot occupied by a dwelling or by any school, church,
or institution for human care;
   (E)   Riding stables and the keeping of small animals; provided, however,
buildings housing animals be at least 100 feet from all property lines that the
lot has an area of not less than ten acres and that the lot is located on a
road having a pavement at least 20 feet wide;
   (F)   Hospitals and institutions of an educational, religious, charitable,
or philanthropic nature; provided, however, such buildings shall not be located
upon sites containing an area of less than five acres shall occupy not over 10%
of the total area of the lot and that buildings shall be set back from all yard
lines a distance of not less than two feet for each foot of building height;
and
   (G)   Open air fisheries when ponds or properties on which ponds are located
are adequately fenced to prevent access of small children.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 11, § 4) (Ord. 19 (Series 1989-1990), passed
3-5-1990)
§ 156.184 PARKING.
   Off-street parking facilities shall be provided in the ratio of one space
per single-family residential unit.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 11, § 5)
§ 156.185 HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. There shall be no restrictions on the height of
buildings in the “A-1,” Agricultural District.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 11, § 6)
   (B)   Area regulations. No minimum yard areas shall be required for the “A-
1,” Agricultural District except a front yard of 80 feet along state and
federal highways and a front yard of 60 feet along state aid highways and other
public roads.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 11, § 7)
§ 156.186 INTENSITY OF USE.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided for in this subchapter, every lot
on which a dwelling is erected shall have an area of not less than one acre.
      (2)   Except, if a lot has less area than herein required and was on
record at the time of the effective date of this subchapter, that lot may be
used for single-family dwelling purposes or for the other non-dwelling uses
permitted in this subchapter.
   (B)   Public schools, elementary and high, or private schools having a
curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in a public elementary school or
public high school, including religious instruction in parochial schools,
hereafter erected shall conform to the following minimum standards:
      (1)   Elementary school: Five acres plus one acre per 100 student design
capacity;
      (2)   Junior high school: Ten acres plus one acre per 100 student design
capacity; and
      (3)   Senior high school: 15 acres plus one acre per 100 student design
capacity.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 11, § 8) (Ord. 3 (Series 1998-1999), passed 5-
18-1998) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.187 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, building
permits shall be required on an “A-1” District for any farm machine shed,
granary, grain bin, corn crib, garage, or other building devoted to an
agricultural use unless it comes within the meaning of a “livestock confinement
building,” as defined in division (B) below, or is a building or other
structure used for the disposal, processing, or storage of livestock waste.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, a LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT BUILDING is
defined as any building used, designed, or intended to be used for the
sheltering or enclosure of livestock or to be occupied by livestock when the
population of animals per 100 square feet of building exceeds the following:
five swine, two cattle, 50 poultry, or five sheep.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, no land within
an “A-1” District may be used as a livestock confinement lot or building.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, a LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT LOT is defined
as any area of land (including the area of the building located thereon) used,
designed, or intended to be used for the enclosure of livestock by fence, pen,
or otherwise where the population of animals per 1,000 square feet equals or
exceeds the following: five swine, one cattle, or five sheep.
   (E)   See Appendix 9, District “A-1,” Agricultural District minimum lot
area, lot width, lot frontage, and yard requirements, height requirements, and
off-street parking requirements.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 11, § 9) (Ord. 3 (Series 1998-1999), passed 5-
18-1998)
“A-2,” RECREATIONAL DISTRICT
§ 156.200 ESTABLISHED.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter, when referred to in this subchapter, are the regulations for the “A-
2,” Recreational District.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 12, § 1)
§ 156.201 PRINCIPAL USES.
   Principal uses include:
   (A)   Parks and open space areas;
   (B)   Recreational uses such as golf courses, swimming pools, playgrounds,
and the like;
   (C)   Bathing beaches and bath houses;
   (D)   Boar docks and marinas; and
   (E)   Picnic shelters and facilities.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 12, § 2)
§ 156.202 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses include:
   (A)   Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed one year;
   (B)   Storage facilities; and
   (C)   Uses clearly incidental but necessary to the permitted principal uses.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 12, § 3)
§ 156.203 SPECIAL USES.
   Special uses include:
   (A)   Private recreational clubs;
   (B)   Riding stables; and
   (C)   Zoos.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 12, § 4) (Ord. 19 (Series 1989-1990), passed
3-5-1990)
§ 156.204 PARKING.
   Parking regulations for District “A-2” shall be developed by the City
Planning Commission at the time of the project proposal in accordance with the
projected amount of traffic generated.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 12, § 5)
§ 156.205 HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   No building or structure in the “A-2,” Recreational District shall exceed
four stories or 60 feet in height.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 12, § 6)
§ 156.206 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No building or accessory structure shall be constructed closer than 50
feet to any public right-of-way nor closer than 15 feet to any lot line in a
adjoining zoning district.
   (B)   See Appendix 10, District “A-2,” Recreational District lot area, lot
width, lot frontage, and yard requirements, height requirements, and off-street
parking requirements.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 12, § 7)
ADDITIONAL SPECIFICATIONS
§ 156.220 Nonconforming USES.
   (A)   Governed. The lawful use of land for storage or other purposes on
which no buildings exist which does not conform to the provisions of this
subchapter shall be governed by strict interpretation of the Nuisance
Ordinance.
   (B)   Nonconforming uses. The lawful use of a building existing at the time
of the adoption of this subchapter may be continued, although such use does not
conform with the provisions hereof, and such use may be extended throughout the
building, provided no structural alterations except those required by law or
ordinance are made therein. If no structural alterations are made, a
nonconforming use of building may be changed to another nonconforming use of
the same or more restricted classification. The foregoing provisions shall also
apply to nonconforming uses in districts hereafter changed to a more restricted
use to a conforming use, such use shall not, thereafter, be changed to a less
restrictive use.
   (C)   Restored buildings. No building which has been damaged by fire,
explosion, act of God, or the public enemy to the extent of more than 75% of
its assessed value shall be restored except in conformity with the regulations
of this subchapter.
   (D)   Discontinued operation. In the event that a nonconforming use of any
building or premises is discontinued or its normal operation stopped for a
period of 180 days, the use of the same shall, thereafter, conform to the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (E)   Enlarging or extending buildings. No existing building or premises
devoted to a use not permitted by this subchapter in the district in which such
building or premises is located, except when required to do so by law or
ordinance, shall be enlarged, extended, reconstructed, or structurally altered
unless such use is changed to one permitted to the district in which such
building or premises is located.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 13)
§ 156.221 ADDITIONAL HEIGHT AND YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Additional height and area regulations. The district regulations
hereinafter set forth in this section qualify or supplement, as the case may
be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in this subchapter.
   (B)   Yard lines and height restrictions. Public, semi-public, or public
service buildings, hospitals, institutions, or schools (when permitted in a
district) may be erected to a height not exceeding 60 feet, and churches and
temples may be erected to a height not exceeding 75 feet if the building is set
back from each yard line at least one foot for each two feet of additional
building height above the height limit otherwise provided in the district in
which the building is located.
   (C)   Height restrictions. Chimneys, church steeples, cooling towers,
elevator bulkheads, fire towers, monuments, stacks, stage towers or scenery
lofts, tanks, water towers, ornamental towers and spires, radio and television
towers, grain elevators, or necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected
to a height not exceeding 100 feet in accordance with existing or hereafter
adopted ordinances of the city.
   (D)   Yard lines and accessory buildings. Accessory buildings may be built
in a rear yard, but such accessory buildings shall not occupy more than 30% of
a rear yard and shall not be nearer than two feet to any side or rear lot line,
except that when a garage is entered from an alley, it shall not be located
closer than ten feet to the alley line and except that a garage that is located
closer than ten feet to the main building shall provide the side and rear yards
required for the main buildings.
   (E)   Accessory buildings. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a
lot until the construction of the main building has been actually commenced,
and no accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes other than by
domestic servants employed entirely on the premises.
   (F)   Open yard requirements. Every part of a required yard shall be open to
the sky unobstructed except for accessory buildings in a rear yard and except
for the ordinary projections of sills, belt courses, cornices, and ornamental
features projecting not to exceed 12 inches.
   (G)   Basement or cellar residential use. A basement or cellar may be
occupied for residential purposes for a period of not more than two years from
the date of issuance of the building permit.
   (H)   Fire escape regulations. Open lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fireproof
outside stairways, and balconies opening upon fire towers and the ordinary
projection of chimneys and flues into the required yard may be permitted by the
Building Inspector for a distance of not more than three and one-half feet
where the same are so placed as not to obstruct light and ventilation.
   (I)   Unenclosed porches/paved terrace. An opened, unenclosed porch or paved
terrace may project into the required front yard. An enclosed vestibule
containing not more than 40 square feet may project into the required front
yard for a distance not to exceed four feet.
   (J)   Required projection measurements. Terraces, uncovered porches,
platforms, and ornamental features which do not extend more than three feet
above the floor level of the ground (first) story may project into a required
yard; provided, these projections be distant at least two feet from the
adjacent side lot line.
   (K)   Side yard regulations. For the purpose of the side yard regulations, a
two-family dwelling or a multiple dwelling shall be considered as one building
occupying one lot.
   (L)   Temporary buildings. Temporary buildings that are used in conjunction
with construction work only may be permitted in any district during the period
that the building is being constructed, but such temporary buildings shall be
removed upon completion of the construction work.
   (M)   Commercial or industrial lot uses. Where a lot or tract is used for a
commercial or industrial purpose, more than one main building may be located
upon the lot or tract but only when such buildings conform to all open space
requirements around the lot for the district in which the lot or tract is
located.
   (N)   Requirements for group buildings. In the event that a lot is to be
occupied by a group of two or more related buildings to be used for
residential, institutional, or hotel purposes, there may be more than one main
building on the lot; provided, however, open space between buildings that are
parallel or within 45 degrees of being parallel shall have a minimum dimensions
of 20 feet for one story buildings, 30 feet for two story buildings, or 40 feet
for three story buildings.
   (O)   Open space requirements. Where an open space is more than 50%
surrounded by a building, the minimum width of the open space shall be at least
20 feet for one story buildings, 30 feet for two story buildings, and 40 feet
for three story buildings.
   (P)   Side yards above commercial structures. No side yards are required
where dwelling units are erected above commercial structures.
   (Q)   Requirements for storage buildings. Buildings that are to be used for
storage purposes only may exceed the maximum number of stories that is
permitted in the district in which they are located, but such buildings shall
not exceed the number of feet of building height permitted in such districts.
   (R)   Front yard adjustments. The front yards heretofore established shall
be adjusted in the following cases:
      (1)   Where 40% or more of the frontage on one side of a street between
two intersecting streets is developed with buildings that have observed (with a
variation of five feet or less) a front yard greater in depth than herein
required, new buildings shall not be erected closer to the street than the
front yard so established by the existing building.
      (2)   Where 40% or more of the frontage on one side of a street between
two intersecting streets is developed with buildings that have not observed a
front yard as described above, then:
         (a)   Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is
within 100 feet of existing buildings on both sides, the minimum front yard
shall be a line drawn between the two closest front corners of the adjacent
buildings on the two sides; or
         (b)   Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is
within 100 feet of an existing building on one side only, such building may be
erected as close to the street as the existing adjacent building.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 14)
§ 156.222 ADDITIONAL USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Special uses.
      (1)   The City Council may, by special permit after public hearing,
authorize the location of any of the following buildings or uses in a district
from which they are prohibited by this section and may also permit an increase
in the height of any such buildings or authorize any other special use provided
in this section:
         (a)   Any public building erected or used by any department of the
city, school district, county, and state or federal government;
         (b)   Private schools, including nursery, pre-kindergarten,
kindergarten, and play and special schools;
         (c)   Hospitals, clinics, and institutions (including educational,
religious, and philanthropic institutions and convalescent homes); provided,
however, such buildings occupy not over 40% of the total area of the lot and
will not have any serious and depreciating effect upon the value of the
surrounding property and provided, further, that the buildings shall be set
back from all yard lines a distance of not less than one foot for each foot of
building height and that adequate off-street parking space be provided;
         (d)   Cemetery;
         (e)   Community building or recreation field;
         (f)   Airport or landing field;
         (g)   Greenhouses and nurseries;
         (h)   Hotels and motels;
         (i)   Trailer or tourist camps, but only in the “R-4,” “A-1,” and “A-
2” Districts, provided that:
            1.   The number of trailers or tourist cabins or both shall not
exceed the number obtained by dividing the total square foot area of the site
by 1,200;
            2.   A distance of at least 20 feet be maintained between
buildings, between trailers, and between trailers and buildings;
            3.   Each tourist cabin unit shall have a minimum enclosed floor
area of 200 square feet and be provided with heating facilities, a lavatory, a
toilet, and tub or shower with hot and cold running water. Sanitary and water
supply facilities installed shall be subject to approval of the City Health
Officer; and
            4.   Each trailer or tourist camp shall provide sanitary facilities
and water supply in accordance with the standards of and meeting the approval
of the City Health Officer. All permits for trailer or tourist camps shall be
valid only during the period that the camp complies with the requirements of
the City Health Officer. No permit for a camp shall be granted until the plans
have been approved by the City Health Officer.
         (j)   Private recreational uses where buildings do not cover more than
5% of the area of the site;
         (k)   Riding stables and private stables;
         (l)   Roadside stands and recreational activities for temporary or
seasonable periods;
         (m)   Radio and television towers and broadcasting stations;
         (n)   Extraction of sand, gravel, rock, and other raw material;
         (o)   Parking lots on land not more than 300 feet from the boundary of
any business district;
         (p)   Club and semi-public buildings; and
         (q)   Bed and breakfast establishment, as defined in §
156.002.
      (2)   Before issuance of any special permit of any of the above buildings
or uses, the City Council shall refer the proposed application to the Zoning
Commission, which Commission shall be given 30 days in which to make a report
regarding the effect of such proposed building or use upon the character of the
neighborhood, traffic conditions, public utility facilities, and other matters
pertaining to the public health, public safety, and general welfare. No action
shall be taken upon any application for a proposed building or use above
referred to until and unless the report of the Zoning Commission has been
filed; provided, however, if no report is received from the Zoning Commission
within 30 days, it shall be assumed that approval of the application has been
given by the said Commission.
   (B)   Main entrance locations. Locating the main entrance of any residential
dwelling unit located or constructed in the city so that the main entrance
faces an alley is hereby expressly prohibited after this section takes effect.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 15) (Ord. 7 (Series 2003-2004), passed 7-6-
2004) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.223 ADDITIONAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Procedure. An application for a building permit for a new or
enlarged building, structure, or use shall include therewith a plot plan, drawn
to scale, and fully dimensioned showing any off-street parking or loading
facilities to be provided to be provided in compliance with the requirements of
this section.
      (2)   Extent of control. The off-street parking and loading requirements
of this section shall apply as follows.
         (a)   All buildings and structures erected and all land uses shall
provide accessory off-street parking or loading facilities as required
hereinafter for the use thereof.
         (b)   When a building or structure erected or enlarged prior to or
after the effective date of this section shall undergo a decrease in number of
dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity, number of employees, or
other unit of measurement specified hereinafter for required off-street parking
and loading spaces through application of the provisions of this section, off-
street parking and loading facilities may be reduced accordingly, provided that
existing off-street parking and loading facilities are so decreased only when
the facilities remaining would at least equal or exceed the off-street parking
or loading requirements resulting from application of the provisions of this
section to the entire building or structure as modified.
         (c)   When a building or structure undergoes any increase in number of
dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity, or other unit of
measurement specified hereinafter for required off-street parking or loading
facilities and, further, when the increase will result in a requirement for
additional total off-street parking or loading spaces through application of
the provisions of this section, parking and loading facilities shall be
increased so that the facilities will at least equal or exceed the off-street
parking and loading requirements resulting from application of the provisions
of this section to the entire building or structure as modified.
      (3)   Existing off-street parking and loading spaces. Accessory off-
street parking and loading spaces in existence on the effective date of this
section may not be reduced in number unless already exceeding the requirements
herein for equivalent new construction; in which event, said spaces shall not
be reduced below the number required herein for such equivalent new
construction.
   (B)   Additional regulations.
      (1)   Joint parking facilities.
         (a)   Off-street parking facilities for different buildings,
structures of uses, or for mixed uses may be provided collectively in any
zoning district in which separate off-street parking facilities for each
constituent use would be permitted, provided that the total number of spaces so
located together are not less than the sum of the separate requirements for
each use and not more than 300 feet from the lot on which the main building or
use to be served in is located. In any case where the required parking spaces
are not located on the same lot with the building or use served or where such
spaces are collectively or jointly provided and used, a written agreement
thereto assuring their retention for such purposes shall be properly drawn and
executed by the parties concerned, approved as to form and execution by the
City Attorney or appointed legal advisor, and shall be filed with the
application for a building permit.
         (b)   Not more than 50% of the parking spaces required for theaters
and places of amusement and up to 100% of the parking spaces required for a
church or school may be provided and used jointly by banks, offices, retail
stores, repair shops, service establishments, and similar uses not normally
open, used, or operated during the same hours as those listed in division (B)
(1)(a) above; provided, however, written agreement assuring the retention for
such purpose shall be properly drawn and executed by the parties concerned,
approved as to form and execution by the City Attorney, and shall be filed with
the application for a building permit.
      (2)   Control of off-site facilities. When required, accessory off-street
parking facilities are provided elsewhere than on the lot on which the
principal use served is located, they shall be in the same possession, either
by deed or long-term lease, as the property occupied by such principal use, and
the owner shall be bound by covenants filed on record in the office of the City
Clerk requiring the owner and his or her heirs and assignees to maintain the
required number of off-street parking spaces during the existence of the
principal use.
      (3)   Permitted districts for accessory parking. Accessory parking
facilities provided elsewhere than on the same zoning lot with the principal
use served in accordance with the requirements below, may be located in any
zoning district except as follows: no parking facilities accessory to a
business or manufacturing use shall be located in a residential district where
authorized by the corporate authorities as prescribed hereinafter.
      (4)   Non-residential parking in residential districts. Accessory off-
street parking facilities serving non-residential uses of property may be
permitted in any “R” District when authorized by the corporate authorities
after review and study by the Zoning Commission, subject to the following
requirements in addition to all other relevant requirements.
         (a)   The parking lot shall be accessory to and use in connection with
one or more non-residential establishments located in adjoining districts or in
connection with one or more existing professional or institutional office
buildings of institutions, if the parking lot proposed is within 300 feet of
the non-residential use which it is to serve.
         (b)   The parking lot shall be used solely for the parking of
passenger automobiles or commercial vehicles of not more than five-ton GVW.
         (c)   No commercial repair work or service of any kind shall be
conducted on the parking lot.
         (d)   No sign of any kind other that signs designating entrances,
exits, and conditions of use shall be maintained on the parking lot and shall
not exceed 20 square feet in area.
         (e)   Each entrance to and exit from the parking lot shall be at least
20 feet distant from any adjacent property located in any residential district,
except where ingress and egress to the parking lot is provided from a public
alley or public way separating the residential areas from the proposed parking
lot.
         (f)   In addition to the foregoing requirements, such parking lots
shall conform to any further requirements and conditions as may be prescribed
by the corporate authorities for the protection of properties adjacent to and
in the vicinity of the proposed parking lot.
      (5)   Design and maintenance.
         (a)   Parking space - description. A required off-street parking space
shall be an area of not less than 200 square feet nor less than ten feet wide
by 20 feet long; measured perpendicularly to the sides of the parking space,
exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps, column, or office and work area;
accessible from street or alleys; and to be used for the storage or parking of
passenger automobiles or commercial vehicles under one and a half-ton capacity.
Aisles between vehicular parking spaces shall be not less than 12 feet in
width, when serving automobiles parked at a 45 degree angle in one direction,
nor less than 25 feet in width when serving automobiles parked perpendicularly.
         (b)   Access. Parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate
means of vehicular access to a street or alley in such a manner as will least
interfere with the movement of traffic and so designed as to permit adequate
maneuvering area for vehicles to turn around where only one entry or exit is
provided in order that no backing of vehicles into the street is required. No
driveway or curb cut in any district shall exceed 25 feet in width.
         (c)   Signs. No signs shall be displayed in any parking area within
any residential district except such as may be necessary for the orderly use of
the parking facilities.
         (d)   Striping. All parking spaces shall be properly marked by durable
paint in stripes a minimum of four inches wide and extending the length of the
parking space.
         (e)   Required setbacks. No parking space nor portion thereof
established on the same zoning lot with a building shall be located within a
required front yard. No parking spaces nor portion thereof established on a
zoning lot without a building shall be located closer to any street line than
the established building line on adjacent properties nor closer than the front
yard setback required for the district in which the parking lot is located.
Further, any wall, fence, or hedge developed around any parking area shall be
subject to the front yard setback requirements of this section in the same
manner as a building or structure.
         (f)   Surfacing. All open, off-street parking areas, except those
accessory to single-family dwellings, shall be improved with a five-inch gravel
base, surfaced with oil and wash gravel.
         (g)   Lighting. All lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking
area shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from all adjoining
properties.
         (h)   Stormwater. Adequate stormwater drainage facilities shall be
installed in order to ensure that stormwater does not flow onto abutting
property or abutting sidewalks in such a way or quantity that pedestrians using
the sidewalk would be detrimentally affected or inconvenienced. The City
Engineer shall approve all such facilities.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 16)
§ 156.224 CANNABIS BUSINESS ZONING.
   (A)   Adoption. The state enacted Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, being 410
ILCS 705/1-1 et seq. (“Act”) is adopted and incorporated as if set forth
herein, and the city may enact reasonable zoning ordinances or resolutions not
in conflict with the Act regulating cannabis establishments.
   (B)   Definitions.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. An adult-use cannabis
cultivation center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser
organization, dispensing organization, or transporting organization.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the State Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure, and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(Pub. Act 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport, and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (Pub. Act 101-0027),
as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of Financial
and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed cannabis business
establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-
infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia, or related supplies to
purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and caregivers,
per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as it may be
amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility
operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the State
Department of Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds
to produce cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate
into a product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An
organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of
Agriculture to transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business
establishment or a community college licensed under the Community College
Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (C)   Compliance. All facilities for cannabis activities in the city, as
above defined, shall comply with all regulations provided in the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder as well as the regulations
provided herein. In the event that the Act is amended, the more restrictive of
the state or local regulations shall apply.
   (D)   Location. Such facilities may be located in any district zoned B-1 or
B-2. Any such facility may not be located within 500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, daycare center, daycare home, or residential care home, same
to be measured from lot lines. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers
shall not be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this
section.
   (E)   Additional requirements. Petitioner shall install building
enhancements, such as security cameras, lighting, or other improvements, as set
forth in the use permit, to ensure the safety of employees and customers of the
adult-use cannabis business facilities and establishments as well as its
environs. Said improvements shall be determined based on the specific
characteristics of the floor plan for an adult-use cannabis facility or
business establishment and the site on which it is located, consistent with the
requirements of the Act.
   (F)   Co-location of cannabis business establishments. The city may approve
the co-location of an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization with an adult-
use cannabis craft grower center or an adult-use cannabis infuser organization
or both, subject to the provisions of the Act and the conditional use criteria
within the city. In a co-location, the floor space requirements of §§ 6.3 and
7.3 shall not apply, but the co-located establishments shall be the sole use of
the tenant space.
(Ord. 8 (Series 2019-2020), passed 4-6-2020)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.235 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Creation and membership. A Board of Appeals is hereby authorized to be
established. The word BOARD, when used in this section, shall be construed to
mean the Board of Appeals. The said Board shall consist of seven members
appointed by the City Council. The members of said Board shall serve
respectively for the following terms (or until their respective successors are
appointed and qualified): one for one year, one for two years, one for three
years, one for four years, one for five years, one for six years, and one for
seven years, the successor to each member so appointed to serve for a term of
five years. One of the members of said Board shall be designated by the City
Council as Chairperson of said Board and shall hold said office as Chairperson
until his or her successor is appointed. Such Chairperson or, in his or her
absence, the Acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance
of witnesses. The City Council shall have the power to remove any member of
said Board for cause and after a public hearing. Vacancies upon said Board
shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose place has become
vacant in the manner herein provided for the appointment of such member.
   (B)   Meetings. All meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be held at the
call of the Chairperson and at such other times as such Board may determine. No
hearing shall be conducted without a quorum of the Board being present, which
shall consist of a majority of all members. All hearings conducted by said
Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every question or, if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact and shall also keep records of its
hearings and other official actions. Findings of facts shall be included in the
minutes of each case of a requested variation, and the reasons for recommending
or denying such variation shall be specified. Every rule or regulation, every
amendment or repeal thereof, and every order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the Board shall be filed immediately on the office of the
Board and shall be a public record. The Board shall adopt its own rules of
procedure not in conflict with this section or with the state statutes in such
case made and provided.
   (C)   Appeal. An appeal may be taken to the Board of Appeals by any person
or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the city affected by a
decision of the Building Inspector. Such appeal shall be taken within such time
as shall be prescribed by the Board of Appeals be general rules by filing with
the Building Inspector and with the Board of Appeals a notice of appeal,
specifying the grounds thereof. The Building Inspector shall, forthwith,
transmit to the Board all of the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken.
      (1)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Board of Appeals
after the notice of appeal had been filed with him or her that, by reason of
facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property; in which case, the proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the Board
of Appeals or by a court of record on application, on notice to the Building
Inspector and on due cause shown.
      (2)   The Board shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing
or the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and shall render a
decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any person may appear and
testify at the hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent or
attorney.
   (D)   Application fees.
      (1)   All applicants filing any application for an appeal to the Board of
Appeals of the city, under this chapter, shall pay a filing fee for their
appeal in the amount of $200, which fee to be paid to the City Clerk at the
time of filing such request.
      (2)   All applications requesting that a matter be referred by the City
Council to the Board of Appeals of the city, for any determination, shall pay a
fee of $200, such fee to be paid to the City Clerk of the city at the time of
filing such request.
      (3)   All applicants requesting amendments or changes in this chapter
shall pay a fee at the time of filing such a request with the City Clerk in the
amount of $200, such fee to be paid to the City Clerk.
      (4)   All applicants requesting the City Council to take any action under
this chapter, other than action named above, which such action requires a
public hearing before any board or commission, shall pay a fee of $200, such
fee to be paid to the City Clerk at the time of filing any such request.
   (E)   Jurisdiction. The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Building
Inspector. It shall also hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon
which it is required to pass under this section.
      (1)   The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify or
amend the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from the
extent and in the manner that the Board may decide to be fitting and proper in
the premises, and to that end, the Board shall also have all the powers of the
officer from whom the appeal is taken.
      (2)   When a property owner shows that a strict application of the terms
of this section relating to the use, construction, or alteration of buildings
or structures or the use of land imposes upon him or her practical difficulties
or particular hardships, then the Board may make such variations of the strict
application of the terms of this section as are in harmony with its general
purpose and intent when the Board is satisfied under the evidence heard before
it that a granting of such variation will not merely serve as a convenience to
the applicant, but it is necessary to alleviate some demonstrable hardship or
difficulty so great as to warrant a variation from the Comprehensive Plan by
this section created and set forth in the following instances:
         (a)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of
a district divides a lot in single ownership as shown on record;
         (b)   To permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building which
has destroyed or partially destroyed by fire or act of God where the Board
shall find some compelling public necessary requiring a continuance of the
nonconforming use, and in no case shall such permit be issued if its primary
function is to continue a monopoly;
         (c)   To permit the erection and use of a building or the use of
premises in any location for a public service corporation for public utility
purposes which the Board deems reasonably necessary for the public convenience
or welfare;
         (d)   To make a variance where (by reason of an exceptional situation,
surroundings, or condition of a specific piece of property or by reason of
exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of a specific piece of property
of record or by reason of exceptional topographical conditions) the strict
application of any provision of this section would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties or particular hardship upon the owner of
such property and amount to a practical confiscation of property, as
distinguished from a mere inconvenience to such owner; provided, such relief
can be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without
substantially impairing the general purpose and intent of the Comprehensive
Plan as established by the regulations and provisions contained in this
section; and
         (e)   To interpret the provisions of this section where the street
layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the map
fixing the several districts, which map is made a part of this section.
      (3)   In considering all appeals and all proposed variations to this
section, the Board shall, before making any variation from the ordinance in a
specific case, first determine that the proposed variation will not impair an
adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property or unreasonably increase
the congestion in public streets or increase the danger of fire or endanger the
public safety or unreasonably diminish or impair established property values
within the surrounding area or, in any other respect, impair the public health,
safety, comfort, morals, or welfare of the inhabitants of the city. The
concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any
order, requirement, decision, or determination of the Building Inspector or to
decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which it is authorized by this
section to render decision or to effect any variance. Nothing herein contained
shall be construed to give or grant to the Board the power or authority to
alter or change this chapter, such power and authority being reserved to the
City Council.
   (F)   Notice. The Board shall make no recommendation except in a specific
case and after public hearing conducted by the Board. A notice of the time and
place of such hearing shall be published in a paper of general circulation in
the city at least once, not more than 30 or less than 15 days previous to the
hearing. Such notice shall contain the particular address or location of the
property for which the variation or other ruling by the Board is sought, as
well as a brief description of the nature of the appeal and of what the
proposed variance consists.
   (G)   Period of effect. No order of the Board permitting the erection or
alteration of a building shall be valid for a period longer that six months,
unless such use is established within such period; provided, however, where
such use permitted is dependent upon the erection or alteration of a building,
such order shall continue in force and effect if a building permit for said
erection or alteration is obtained within such period and such erection or
alteration is started and proceeds to completion in accordance with the terms
of such permit.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 17) (Ord. 18 (Series 1985-1986), passed 10-6-
1986)
§ 156.236 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the City Council to enforce this
chapter. The City Council shall receive applications required by this chapter,
issue permits, and furnish the prescribed certificates. The Building Inspector
shall examine premises for which permits have been issued and shall make
necessary inspections to see that the provisions of this chapter are complied
with. He or she shall, when requested by the Mayor or City Council, or, when
the interests of the municipality so require, make investigations in connection
with matters referred to in this section and render written reports on the
same. For the purpose of enforcing compliance with the law, the City Council
shall issue such notices or orders as may be necessary.
   (B)   Inspections. Inspections shall be made by the Building Inspector or a
duly appointed assistant.
   (C)   Records.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall keep careful and comprehensive records of
applications, of permits issued, of certificates issued, of inspections made,
of reports rendered, and of notices or orders issued. The City Clerk shall
retain on-file copies of all papers in connection with building work so long as
any part of the building or structure to which they relate may be in existence.
      (2)   All such records shall be open to public inspection at reasonable
hours but shall not be removed from the office of the City Clerk.
   (D)   Rules. For carrying into effect its provisions, the Building Inspector
may adopt rules consistent with this section.
   (E)   Reports. The Building Inspector shall make a report to the Mayor once
each month or more often, if requested, including statements of permits and
certificates issued and orders promulgated.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 18)
§ 156.237 PERMITS.
   (A)   When required. It shall not be lawful to construct, alter, repair,
remove, or demolish or to commence the construction, alteration, removal, or
demolition of a building or structure without first filing with the City Clerk
an application, in writing, and obtaining a formal permit. However, no permit
shall be required for any remodeling on any structure so long as the height or
area of the structure is not altered.
   (B)   Form.
      (1)   An application for a permit shall be submitted in such a form as
the Building Inspector may prescribe.
      (2)   Such application shall be made by the owner’s contractor or builder
employed in connection with the proposed work where the owner has a contractor
or builder, otherwise by the owner or lessee or agent of either or the
architect or engineer. If such application is made by a person other than the
owner in fee, it shall be accompanied by a duly verified affidavit of the owner
in fee or the person making the application that proposed work is authorized by
the owner in fee and that the person making the application is authorized to
make such application.
      (3)   Such application shall contain the full names and addresses of the
applicant and of the owner and, if the owner is a corporate body, of its
responsible officers.
      (4)   Such application shall describe briefly the proposed work and shall
give such additional information as may be required by the Building Inspector
for an intelligent understanding of the proposed work.
   (C)   Plans. Application for permits shall be accompanied by such drawings
of the proposed work, drawn to scale, including floor plans, sections,
elevations, and structural details as the Building Inspector may require.
   (D)   Plot diagram. There shall also be filed a plot diagram in a form and
size suitable for filing permanently with the permit record, drawn to scale,
with all dimensions figured, showing accurately the size and exact location of
all proposed new construction or, in the case of demolition, of such
construction as is to be demolished and of all existing buildings and
structures that are to remain.
   (E)   Amendments. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the filing of
amendments to an application or to a plan or other record accompanying same, at
any time before the completion of the work for which the permit was sought.
Such amendments, after approval, shall be filed with and be deemed a part of
the original application.
   (F)   Completion of existing buildings. Nothing is this section shall
require changes in the plans, construction, or designated use of a building for
which a lawful permit has been heretofore issued or which has been otherwise
lawfully authorized and the construction of which shall have been actually
begun within 90 days after this section becomes effective and which entire
building shall be completed, as authorized, with two years thereafter.
   (G)   Action on application. It shall be the duty of the City Council to
examine applications for permits within a reasonable time after filing. If,
after examination, there is found no objection to the same and it appears that
the proposed work will be in compliance with the laws and ordinances applicable
thereto, the Council shall approve such application and issue a permit for the
proposed work as soon a practicable. If examination reveals otherwise, the
Council will reject such application, noting their findings in a report to be
attached to the application and delivering a copy to the applicant.
   (H)   Approval in part. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the City Council from issuing a permit for the construction of part of
a building or structure before the entire plans and detailed statements of said
building or structure have been submitted or approved, if adequate plans and
detailed statements have been presented for the same and have been found to
comply with this section.
   (I)   Conditions of the permit.
      (1)   All work performed under a permit issued by the City Council shall
conform to the approved application and plans and approved amendments thereof.
      (2)   The location of all new construction, as shown on the approved plot
diagram or an approved amendment thereof, shall be strictly adhered to.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to reduce or diminish the area of a lot or
plot of which a plot diagram had been filed and has been used as the basis for
a permit, unless a revised plot diagram showing the proposed change in
conditions shall have been filed and approved; provided, this shall not apply
when the lot is reduced by reason of a street opening or widening or other
public improvement.
   (J)   Signature to permit. Every permit issued by the City Council under the
provisions of this section shall have the Building Inspector’s signature
affixed thereto, but this shall not prevent him or her from authorizing a
subordinate to affix such a signature.
   (K)   Limitation. A permit under which no work is commenced within one year
after issuance shall expire by limitation, except a demolition permit which
shall expire 90 days after issuance, subject to being extended an additional 30
days upon payment of a $250 fee for such extension.
   (L)   Posting of permit.
      (1)   A copy of the permit shall be kept on the premises, open to public
inspection during the prosecution of the work, and until the completion of the
same.
      (2)   The City Council may require a certified copy of the approved plans
to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work to
the completion thereof.
      (3)   The Building Inspector shall be given at least a 12-hour notice of
the starting or work under a permit.
   (M)   Revocation. The City Council may revoke a permit or approval issued
under the provisions of this section in case there has been any false statement
or misrepresentation as to a material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 19) (Ord. 3 (Series 1998-1999), passed 5-18-
1998; Ord. 19 (Series 1991-1992), passed 1-6-1992; Ord. 9 (Series 2009-2010),
passed 8-3-2009)
§ 156.238 AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES.
   (A)   The City Council may, from time to time, amend this chapter in the
manner prescribed by the statutes of the state.
   (B)   No such amendment shall be made until it shall have been referred to
the Zoning Commission and report received from said Commission of the effect of
said amendment upon the city and the welfare of the inhabitants thereof. The
Zoning Commission shall hold one public hearing upon such amendment as required
by law and is hereby designated as the body to hold such hearings. If no report
is received from the Zoning Commission in 60 days, it may be assumed that said
Commission has approved the amendment.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 21)
§ 156.239 ZONING CHANGES; BOUNDARY LINE DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Whenever any zoning change or request is to be considered by public
hearing with respect to any property, an appropriate posting of information
with respect to the proposed change or request shall be made on the property by
the Building Inspector at least 14 days prior to any hearing with respect to
such matter.
   (B)   Any publication required, by law, to be published with respect to any
zoning matters in the city shall be published in the Daily Gate City, Keokuk,
Iowa, in addition to the Hancock County Journal-Pilot.
   (C)   Whenever the circumstances of any particular property (such as
uncertainty of the location of boundary lines, close proximity of buildings or
proposed buildings to boundary lines, or other matters) wherein the Building
Inspector may be in doubt as to the location of a boundary line or the relation
of any building to a boundary line, the Building Inspector, in his or her
discretion, may require the applicant for a building permit to obtain a
boundary and/or building location survey prior to issuing any building permit.
(Ord. 2 (Series 2000-2001), passed 5-1-2000)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $200 for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted
to exist shall constitute a separate offense. However, the fine for the first
day of any such violation shall be not less than $100.
   (B)   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained or any building,
structure, or land is used in violation of this chapter, the proper authorities
of the city, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate
action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, maintenance, or use or
to enjoin, restrain, correct, or abate such violation to prevent the occupancy
of said building, structure, or land or to prevent any illegal act, conduct,
business, or use in or about such premises.
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Article 24)
CHAPTER 157: TRAINS AND RAILROAD CROSSINGS
Section
   
157.01   Railroad crossings
   
157.02   Signal
   
157.03   Obstruction of streets
 
   
157.99   Penalty
§ 157.01 RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   For the safety of the general public, it is hereby determined that there
shall be constructed, installed, and placed by the company or corporation
owning, using, or operating any railroad at and across South 14th Street on the
south side of said right-of-way in said city where said 14th Street intersects
the tracks of their railroad right-of-way and thereafter maintained and
retained by said companies in first-class working condition an automatic
electric bell, signal, or warning operated by automatic power.
(Prior Code, Chapter 15, § 1)
§ 157.02 SIGNAL.
   Such signal shall be of standard make and pattern, such as is in common and
ordinary use for like purposes by railroad corporations throughout the state
and, when so installed, shall be operated and maintained so as to give,
throughout 24 hours in each and every day, reasonable warning of the approach
of all engines or cars or trains upon all railroad tracks on the right-of-way
of such railroad company within a distance of 1,000 feet on each side of said
crossing. Said signal shall be so operated and maintained as to be constantly
sounded while any engine, car, or train is moving within 1,000 feet distance of
said crossings.
(Prior Code, Chapter 15, § 2) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.03 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   No railroad corporation or its agents, officers, servants, or employees
shall cause or allow any locomotive, engine, car, cars, or train of cars to
stop in or remain upon any part of 2nd Street, Main Street, or 14th Street in
said city where said railroad company’s tracks cross said streets for a longer
period than five minutes at any one time nor upon any other street and railroad
crossing in said city for a longer period than ten minutes, or to obstruct or
prevent public travel upon any street and railroad crossing in said city for
longer than said five- and ten-minute periods, respectively, above named,
unless unavoidably necessary to do so. This section shall not be construed to
include such obstruction caused by collision or other accident if the
obstruction caused thereby is promptly removed and the streets and crossing
cleared for traffic.   
(Prior Code, Chapter 15, § 4) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any railroad company refusing or neglecting to place and maintain the
signal, as required by §
157.02 shall forfeit and pay to the said city $50 per day for each and every
day it shall refuse or neglect to do so, and upon violation hereof, it is
hereby made the duty of the City Attorney to promptly commence and prosecute
suit for the recovery of such penalty or penalties in the name of such city in
any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, Chapter 15, § 3)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   [Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
 
Illinois Compiled Statutes Code Section
Illinois Compiled Statutes     Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                 10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.02                 10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.03                 10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.04                 10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.05                 10.03
5 ILCS 70/1.07                 10.03
5 ILCS 70/1.08                 10.03
5 ILCS 70/1.09                 10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.10                 10.03
5 ILCS 70/1.11                 10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.12                 10.03
5 ILCS 70/1.15                 10.03
5 ILCS 70/1.16                 10.03
5 ILCS 70/1.17                 10.03
5 ILCS 70/1.20                 10.03
5 ILCS 70/1.24                 10.03
5 ILCS 70/1.28                 10.03
5 ILCS 70/1.29                 10.03
5 ILCS 70/2                    10.05
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.           31.03
5 ILCS 430/1 et seq.           31.99
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.         31.22
5 ILCS 430/5-15                31.22
5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40 31.22
5 ILCS 430/50-5                31.99
5 ILCS 430/70-5                31.22
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)             31.22
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)             31.22
24 ILCS 11-20-1 et seq.        92.17
30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.          51.01
35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.          34.26  
35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.          34.25
50 ILCS 150/1 et seq.          31.03
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.          33.02
50 ILCS 820/4 through 820/7    114.38
                               153.01;
50 ILCS 840/1 et seq.          153.03;
                               153.09
65 ILCS 5                      10.03
65 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq.        50.03
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                10.03
65 ILCS 5/8-1-16               34.28
65 ILCS 5/8-8-8                34.27
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1               34.24;
                               50.03
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2(d)            50.03
65 ILCS 5/8-11-5               34.25
65 ILCS 5/8-11-6               34.26
65 ILCS 5/8-11-23              34.32
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12             154.01
65 ILCS 5/11-20-1 et seq.      92.17
65 ILCS 5/11-20-10             92.01
65 ILCS 5/11-23                92.03
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2              154.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8              154.01
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2              154.01
65 ILCS 5/11-80-5              34.29
65 ILCS 5/11-81-2              34.30
65 ILCS 5/11-139-1             50.15
65 ILCS 5/11-143-1             34.31
65 ILCS 5/12-1                 154.01
65 ILCS 20/0.01 et seq.        34.03;
                               51.62
210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.         154.09
220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.       153.05
225 ILCS 320/3                 53.23
225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.         153.03
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.          113.02
235 ILCS 5/6-15                94.02
410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.       156.224
415 ILCS 5                     154.08
415 ILCS 5/4                   53.23
                               90.001;
510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.           90.002;
                               90.067
510 ILCS 5/12                  90.049
510 ILCS 5/15                  90.065;
                               90.067
510 ILCS 70/1 et seq.          90.047
510 ILCS 70/3.01 et seq.       90.020;
                               90.047
605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.       153.01;
                               153.03
625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq.       70.46
625 ILCS 5/1-146               70.46
625 ILCS 5/1-188               10.03
625 ILCS 5/6-101 et seq.       70.46
625 ILCS 5/6-303 et seq.       70.46
625 ILCS 5/7-601               73.16
625 ILCS 5/7-602               73.16
625 ILCS 5/11-201 et seq.      70.22;
                               70.25
625 ILCS 5/11-501 et seq.      70.46
625 ILCS 5/11-501.01 et seq.   151.04;
                               153.05
625 ILCS 5/11-501.1 et seq.    72.05
625 ILCS 5/11-503 et seq.      70.46
625 ILCS 5/12-603.1            73.16
625 ILCS 5/12-709              73.17
625 ILCS 25/1 et seq.          73.16
720 ILCS 5/11-9                111.51
720 ILCS 5/11-20               111.51
720 ILCS 5/16 et seq.          70.46
720 ILCS 5/24-1                70.46
720 ILCS 5/24-1.5              70.46
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1              70.46
720 ILCS 5/36-1                70.46
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.         70.46
720 ILCS 570/1 et seq.         70.46
745 ILCS 10/7-101              31.43
745 ILCS 10/7-102              31.43
765 ILCS                       155.02
765 ILCS 205/2                 154.10
820 ILCS 112/1 et seq.         31.20
                               
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Sectiom 2024 Code Section
Prior Code Sectiom             2024 Code Section
Chapter 1, 1                   11.15
Chapter 1, 2                   11.15
Chapter 2, 1                   10.02
Chapter 3, Article 1           11.02
Chapter 3, Article 2, 1        34.01
Chapter 3, Article 2, 2        34.02
Chapter 3, Article 2, 3        34.03
Chapter 3, Article 2, 4        34.04
Chapter 3, Article 3           31.04
Chapter 3, Article 4           31.02
Chapter 3, Article 5           31.24
Chapter 4, Article 1           31.05
Chapter 4, Article 2, 1        30.01
Chapter 4, Article 2, 2        30.02
Chapter 4, Article 2, 3        30.03
Chapter 4, Article 2, 4        30.04
Chapter 4, Article 2, 5        30.05
Chapter 4, Article 2, 6        30.05
Chapter 4, Article 2, 7        30.01
Chapter 4, Article 2, 8        30.06
Chapter 4, Article 2, 9        30.07
Chapter 4, Article 3, 1        30.20
Chapter 4, Article 3, 2        30.22
Chapter 4, Article 3, 3        30.23
Chapter 4, Article 3, 4        30.23
Chapter 4, Article 3, 5        30.20
Chapter 4, Article 3, 6        30.20
Chapter 4, Article 3, 7        30.27
Chapter 4, Article 3, 8        30.26
Chapter 4, Article 3, 9        30.24
Chapter 4, Article 3, 10       30.25
Chapter 4, Article 3, 11       30.28
Chapter 4, Article 3, 12       30.26
Chapter 4, Article 3, 13       30.30
Chapter 4, Article 3, 14       30.29
Chapter 4, Article 3, 15       30.25
Chapter 4, Article 3, 16       30.21
Chapter 4, Article 3, 17       30.31
Chapter 4, Article 3, 18       30.31
Chapter 4, Article 3, 19       30.31
Chapter 4, Article 3, 20       30.32
Chapter 4, Article 3, 21       30.33
Chapter 4, Article 4           30.34
Chapter 4, Article 5           31.40
Chapter 4, Article 6           31.41
Chapter 4, Article 7           31.42
Chapter 4, Article 8           31.43;
                               31.99
Chapter 4, Article 9           31.44
Chapter 4, Article 10          31.45
Chapter 4, Article 10A         31.01
Chapter 4, Article 11          31.20
Chapter 4, Article 12          31.61
Chapter 5, 1                   11.16
Chapter 5, 2                   11.17
Chapter 6, 1                   11.31
Chapter 6, 2                   11.31
Chapter 6, 3                   11.32
Chapter 6, 4                   11.32
Chapter 6, 5                   11.33
Chapter 6, 6                   11.33
Chapter 6, 7                   11.33
Chapter 6, 8                   11.34
Chapter 6, 9                   11.35
Chapter 6, 10                  11.35
Chapter 6, 11                  11.36
Chapter 6, 12                  11.37
Chapter 6, 13                  11.37
Chapter 6, 14                  11.37
Chapter 6, 15                  11.36
Chapter 6, 16                  11.38
Chapter 6, 17                  11.38
Chapter 6, 18                  11.30
Chapter 6, 19                  11.30
Chapter 6, 20                  11.37
Chapter 7                      11.01
Chapter 8, Article 1           31.60
Chapter 8, Article 2           31.60;
                               31.99
Chapter 8, Article 3, 1        33.16
Chapter 8, Article 3, 2        33.17
Chapter 8, Article 3, 3        33.18
Chapter 8, Article 3, 4        33.18
Chapter 8, Article 3, 5        33.19
Chapter 8, Article 3, 6        33.20
Chapter 8, Article 3, 7        33.21
Chapter 8, Article 3, 8        33.22
Chapter 8, Article 3, 9        33.22
Chapter 8, Article 3, 10       33.23
Chapter 8, Article 3, 11       33.24
Chapter 8, Article 3, 12       33.22
Chapter 9, Article 1, 1        92.01
Chapter 9, Article 1, 2        92.01
Chapter 9, Article 1, 3        92.01
Chapter 9, Article 1, 4        92.01
Chapter 9, Article 1, 5        92.01
Chapter 9, Article 1, 6        92.01
Chapter 9, Article 1, 7        92.01
Chapter 9, Article 1, 8        92.01
Chapter 9, Article 1, 9        92.01
Chapter 9, Article 1, 10       92.01
Chapter 9, Article 1, 11       92.01
Chapter 9, Article 1, 12       92.01
Chapter 9, Article 1, 13       92.01
Chapter 9, Article 1, 13A      92.01
Chapter 9, Article 1, 14       92.01
Chapter 9, Article 1, 15       92.01
Chapter 9, Article 1, 16       92.02
Chapter 9, Article 1, 17       92.99
Chapter 9, Article 1, 18       92.01;
                               92.99
Chapter 9, Article 1, 19       92.99
Chapter 9, Article 1, 20       92.03
Chapter 9, Article 1, 21       92.01;
                               92.99
Chapter 9, Article 1, 22       92.01;
                               92.99
Chapter 9, Article 1, 23       92.01;
                               92.99
Chapter 9, Article 2           92.04;
                               92.99
Chapter 9, Article 3, 1        92.15
Chapter 9, Article 3, 2        92.16
Chapter 9, Article 3, 3        92.17
Chapter 9, Article 3, 4        92.18
Chapter 9, Article 3, 4A       92.19
Chapter 9, Article 4, 1        92.30
Chapter 9, Article 4, 2        92.30
Chapter 9, Article 4, 3        92.30
Chapter 9, Article 4, 4        92.30
Chapter 9, Article 4, 5        92.31
Chapter 9, Article 4, 6        92.32
Chapter 9, Article 4, 7        92.32
Chapter 9, Article 4, 8        92.99
                               130.99;
Chapter 11, Article 1, 1       131.99;
                               132.99;
                               133.99
Chapter 11, Article 1, 2       132.01
Chapter 11, Article 1, 3       130.01
Chapter 11, Article 1, 4       130.01
Chapter 11, Article 1, 5       130.04
Chapter 11, Article 1, 6       130.15
Chapter 11, Article 1, 7       130.02
Chapter 11, Article 1, 8       130.17
Chapter 11, Article 1, 9       130.03
Chapter 11, Article 1, 10      130.03
Chapter 11, Article 1, 11      130.18
Chapter 11, Article 1, 12      130.19
Chapter 11, Article 1, 13      130.20
Chapter 11, Article 1, 14      133.01
Chapter 11, Article 1, 15      133.02
Chapter 11, Article 1, 16      133.03
Chapter 11, Article 1, 17      131.01
Chapter 11, Article 1, 18      130.21
Chapter 11, Article 1, 19      130.21
Chapter 11, Article 1, 20      130.21
Chapter 11, Article 1, 21      130.21
Chapter 11, Article 1, 22      133.04
Chapter 11, Article 1, 23      132.16
Chapter 11, Article 1, 24      133.05
Chapter 11, Article 1, 25      131.03
Chapter 11, Article 1, 26      132.17
Chapter 11, Article 1, 27      131.14
Chapter 11, Article 1, 28      131.14
Chapter 11, Article 1, 29      133.06
Chapter 11, Article 1, 30      133.07
Chapter 11, Article 1, 31      131.04
Chapter 11, Article 1, 32      131.02
Chapter 11, Article 1, 33      131.15
Chapter 11, Article 1, 34      131.15
Chapter 11, Article 1, 35      132.02
Chapter 11, Article 1, 36      133.08
Chapter 11, Article 1, 37      131.05
Chapter 11, Article 1, 38      131.06
Chapter 11, Article 1, 39      132.03
Chapter 11, Article 1, 40      132.04
Chapter 11, Article 1, 41      131.04
Chapter 11, Article 1, 42      131.08
Chapter 11, Article 1, 43      131.09
Chapter 11, Article 1, 44      132.15
Chapter 11, Article 1, 45      132.15
Chapter 11, Article 1, 46      132.18
Chapter 11, Article 1, 47      131.10
Chapter 11, Article 1, 48      131.07
Chapter 11, Article 1, 49      131.07
Chapter 11, Article 1, 50      130.16
Chapter 11, Article 1, 51      132.19
Chapter 11, Article 1, 51A     132.19;
                               132.99
Chapter 11, Article 1, 52      131.11;
                               131.99
Chapter 11, Article 1, 53      93.01;
                               93.99
Chapter 11, Article 1, 54      131.12;
                               131.99
Chapter 11, Article 1, 55      131.16;
                               131.99
Chapter 11, Article 1, 56      130.22;
                               130.99
Chapter 11, Article 1, 57      131.13;
                               131.99
Chapter 11, Article 1, 58      131.16;
                               131.99
Chapter 11, Article 2, 1       93.15
Chapter 11, Article 2, 2       93.16
Chapter 11, Article 2, 3       93.16
Chapter 11, Article 2, 4       93.17
Chapter 11, Article 2, 5       93.16
Chapter 11, Article 2, 6       93.99
Chapter 12, 1                  111.01
Chapter 12, 2                  111.20
Chapter 12, 3                  111.02
Chapter 12, 5                  111.22
Chapter 12, 6                  111.29
Chapter 12, 8                  111.24
Chapter 12, 10                 111.25
Chapter 12, 11                 111.21
Chapter 12, 12                 111.30
Chapter 12, 13                 111.28
Chapter 12, 14                 111.25
Chapter 12, 15                 111.05;
                               111.99
Chapter 12, 17                 111.48
Chapter 12, 17A                111.99
Chapter 12, 18                 111.49
Chapter 12, 19                 111.51
Chapter 12, 20                 111.99
Chapter 12, 21                 111.50
Chapter 12, 22                 111.23
Chapter 12, 24                 111.46;
                               111.99
Chapter 12, 25                 111.06;
                               111.99
Chapter 12, 26                 111.04
Chapter 13, Article 1, 1       70.01
Chapter 13, Article 1, 2       70.05
Chapter 13, Article 1, 3       70.40
Chapter 13, Article 1, 4       70.06
Chapter 13, Article 1, 5       70.06
Chapter 13, Article 1, 6       70.06
Chapter 13, Article 1, 7       70.07
Chapter 13, Article 1, 8       70.08
Chapter 13, Article 2          70.09
Chapter 13, Article 3, 1       71.01
Chapter 13, Article 3, 2       71.02
Chapter 13, Article 3, 3       71.03
Chapter 13, Article 3, 4       71.04
Chapter 13, Article 3, 5       71.05
Chapter 13, Article 3, 6       71.06
Chapter 13, Article 3, 7       71.07
Chapter 13, Article 3, 8       71.08
Chapter 13, Article 3, 9       71.09
Chapter 13, Article 3, 10      71.25
Chapter 13, Article 3, 11      Chapter 74, Schedule I
Chapter 13, Article 3, 11A     Chapter 74, Schedule I
Chapter 13, Article 3, 12      71.10
Chapter 13, Article 3, 13      71.32
Chapter 13, Article 3, 14      71.28
Chapter 13, Article 3, 15      71.29
Chapter 13, Article 3, 16      71.30
Chapter 13, Article 3, 17      71.28
Chapter 13, Article 3, 19      71.31
Chapter 13, Article 3, 20      71.45
Chapter 13, Article 3, 21      71.11
Chapter 13, Article 3, 22      71.26;
                               70.99
Chapter 13, Article 3, 23      70.99;
                               71.27
Chapter 13, Article 3, 24      71.46
Chapter 13, Article 4, 1       70.20
Chapter 13, Article 4, 2       70.21
Chapter 13, Article 4, 3       70.22
Chapter 13, Article 4, 4       70.23
Chapter 13, Article 4, 5       70.24
Chapter 13, Article 4, 6       70.22
Chapter 13, Article 4, 7       70.22
Chapter 13, Article 4, 8       70.22
Chapter 13, Article 4, 9       70.22
Chapter 13, Article 4, 10      70.22
Chapter 13, Article 4, 11      70.25
Chapter 13, Article 5, 1       72.01
Chapter 13, Article 5, 2       72.02
Chapter 13, Article 5, 3       72.03
Chapter 13, Article 5, 4       72.04
Chapter 13, Article 5, 5       Chapter 75, Schedule I; 
                               Chapter 75, Schedule II
Chapter 13, Article 5, 6       72.05;
                               Chapter 75, Schedule III
Chapter 13, Article 6, 1       Chapter 74, Schedule II
Chapter 13, Article 6, 2       Chapter 74, Schedule I
Chapter 13, Article 6, 4       71.47
Chapter 13, Article 7, 1       70.02
Chapter 13, Article 7, 2       70.03
Chapter 13, Article 7, 3       70.04
Chapter 13, Article 9          70.06;
                               70.99
Chapter 14, Article 1, 1       151.15
Chapter 14, Article 1, 2       151.15
Chapter 14, Article 1, 3       151.16
Chapter 14, Article 1, 4       151.17
Chapter 14, Article 1, 5       151.17
Chapter 14, Article 1, 6       151.18
Chapter 14, Article 1, 7       151.18
Chapter 14, Article 1, 8       151.18
Chapter 14, Article 1, 9       151.18
Chapter 14, Article 2, 1       151.19;
                               151.99
Chapter 14, Article 2, 2       151.20
Chapter 14, Article 2, 3       151.22
Chapter 14, Article 2, 4       151.22
Chapter 14, Article 2, 5       151.22
Chapter 14, Article 2, 6       151.22
Chapter 14, Article 2, 7       151.21
Chapter 14, Article 2, 8       151.22
Chapter 14, Article 2, 9       151.19
Chapter 14, Article 2, 10      151.19
Chapter 14, Article 3          151.02
Chapter 14, Article 4          151.03
Chapter 15, 1                  157.01
Chapter 15, 2                  157.02
Chapter 15, 3                  157.99
Chapter 15, 4                  157.03
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.04, 1.04.010 155.01
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.04, 1.04.020 155.01
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.04, 1.04.030 155.02
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.04, 1.04.040 155.04
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.04, 1.04.050 155.05
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.08           155.03
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, 1.12.010 155.20
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, 1.12.020 155.21
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, 1.12.030 155.21
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, 1.12.040 155.21
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, 1.12.050 155.21
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, 1.12.060 155.22
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, 1.12.070 155.22
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, 1.12.080 155.22
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, 1.12.090 155.23
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, 1.12.100 155.22
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, 1.12.110 155.22
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.12, 1.12.120 155.24
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, 1.16.010 155.35
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, 1.16.020 155.36
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, 1.16.030 155.37
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, 1.16.040 155.38
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, 1.16.050 155.38
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, 1.16.060 155.39
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, 1.16.070 155.40
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, 1.16.080 155.41
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, 1.16.090 155.42
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, 1.16.100 155.41
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.16, 1.16.110 155.41
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.20, 1.20.010 155.55
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.20, 1.20.020 155.56
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.20, 1.20.030 155.56
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.20, 1.20.040 155.57
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.20, 1.20.050 155.58
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.20, 1.20.060 155.58
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.20, 1.20.070 155.59
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.24           155.21
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.28           155.22
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.32           155.06
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.36           155.07
Chapter 16, Ch. 1.40           155.99
Chapter 17, Article 1, 1       150.20
Chapter 17, Article 1, 2       150.21
Chapter 17, Article 1, 3       150.22
Chapter 17, Article 1, 5       150.05
Chapter 17, Article 1, 6       150.05
Chapter 17, Article 1, 7       150.05
Chapter 17, Article 1, 8       150.99
Chapter 17, Article 1, 9       150.01
Chapter 17, Article 1, 11      150.02
Chapter 17, Article 1, 13      150.03;
                               150.99
Chapter 17, Article 2, 1       151.35
Chapter 17, Article 2, 2       151.36
Chapter 17, Article 2, 3       151.37
Chapter 17, Article 2, 4       151.38
Chapter 17, Article 2, 5       151.39
Chapter 17, Article 2, 6       151.36
Chapter 17, Article 2, 7       151.40
Chapter 17, Article 4          151.01;
                               151.99
Chapter 17A, 1                 152.01—
                               152.04
Chapter 18                     150.04
Chapter 19, Article 1, 1       91.15
Chapter 19, Article 1, 2       91.16
Chapter 19, Article 1, 3       91.16
Chapter 19, Article 1, 4       91.17
Chapter 19, Article 1, 5       91.18;
                               91.99
Chapter 19, Article 1, 6       91.01
Chapter 19, Article 1, 7       91.19;
                               91.99
Chapter 19, Article 1, 8       91.19
Chapter 19, Article 1, 9       91.16
Chapter 19, Article 2, 1       91.30
Chapter 19, Article 2, 1B      91.31
Chapter 19, Article 2, 2       91.32
Chapter 19, Article 2, 2A      91.32
Chapter 19, Article 2, 3       91.33
Chapter 19, Article 2, 4       91.99
Chapter 19, Article 3, 1       91.03
Chapter 19, Article 3, 2       91.03
Chapter 19, Article 3, 3       91.03
Chapter 19, Article 3, 4       91.99
Chapter 19, Article 3, 5       91.03
Chapter 19, Article 3, 6       91.03
Chapter 19, Article 3, 7       91.03
Chapter 19, Article 3, 8       91.99
Chapter 20, Article 1, 1       50.17
Chapter 20, Article 1, 2       50.17
Chapter 20, Article 1, 3       50.18
Chapter 20, Article 1, 4       50.19
Chapter 20, Article 1, 5       50.16
Chapter 20, Article 1, 6       50.16
Chapter 20, Article 1, 8       50.16
Chapter 20, Article 1, 9       50.20
Chapter 20, Article 1, 10      50.20
Chapter 20, Article 1, 11      50.20
Chapter 20, Article 1, 12      50.99
Chapter 20, Article 1, 13      50.24
Chapter 20, Article 1, 14      50.16
Chapter 20, Article 1, 16      50.21
Chapter 20, Article 1, 17      50.22
Chapter 20, Article 1, 18      50.25
Chapter 20, Article 1, 19      50.20
Chapter 20, Article 1, 20      50.23
Chapter 20, Article 1, 21      50.23
Chapter 20, Article 5, 1       52.01
Chapter 20, Article 5, 2       52.01;
                               52.99
Chapter 20, Article 5, 3       52.30
Chapter 20, Article 5, 4       52.15
Chapter 20, Article 5, 5       52.35
Chapter 20, Article 5, 6       52.31
Chapter 20, Article 5, 7       52.16
Chapter 20, Article 5, 8       52.02
Chapter 20, Article 5, 9       52.03
Chapter 20, Article 5, 10      52.54;
                               52.99
Chapter 20, Article 5, 10A     52.54;
                               52.99
Chapter 20, Article 5, 11      52.17
Chapter 20, Article 7, 1       52.50
Chapter 20, Article 7, 2       52.51
Chapter 20, Article 7, 3       52.52
Chapter 20, Article 7, 3A      52.53
Chapter 20, Article 7, 4       52.36
Chapter 20, Article 7A         52.18;
                               52.99
Chapter 20, Article 8, 1       50.40
Chapter 20, Article 8, 2       50.41
Chapter 20, Article 8, 3       50.42
Chapter 20, Article 8, 4       50.43
Chapter 20, Article 8, 5       50.43
Chapter 20, Article 8, 6       50.43
Chapter 20, Article 8, 7       50.44
Chapter 20, Article 8, 8       50.43
Chapter 20, Article 8, 9       50.45
Chapter 20, Article 8, 10      50.46
Chapter 20, Article 8, 11      50.47;
                               50.99
Chapter 20, Article 8, 12      50.48;
                               50.99
Chapter 20, Article 10         50.15
Chapter 20, Article 11         52.35
Chapter 20, Article 13         52.04
Chapter 20, Article 14         53.01
Chapter 20, Article 14, 1      53.02
Chapter 20, Article 14, 2      53.03
Chapter 20, Article 14, 3      53.04
Chapter 20, Article 14, 4      53.05
Chapter 20, Article 14, 5      53.06
Chapter 20, Article 14, 6      53.07
Chapter 20, Article 14A, 1     53.20
Chapter 20, Article 14A, 10    53.28
Chapter 20, Article 14A, 11    53.99
Chapter 22, 1                  32.01
Chapter 22, 2                  32.02
Chapter 22, 3                  32.03
Chapter 22, 4                  32.02
Chapter 22, 5                  32.04
Chapter 22, 6                  32.05
Chapter 22, 7                  32.06
Chapter 22, 8                  32.07
Chapter 22, 9                  32.08
Chapter 22, 10                 32.09
Chapter 22, 11                 32.10
Chapter 22, 12                 32.11
Chapter 22, 12                 32.99
Chapter 22, 13                 32.11
Chapter 22, 14                 32.12
Chapter 23, Article 2          110.02
Chapter 23, Article 3, 1       110.03
Chapter 23, Article 3, 2       110.03
Chapter 23, Article 3, 3       110.03
Chapter 23, Article 3, 4       113.01;
                               113.99
Chapter 23, Article 8, 1       70.99
Chapter 23, Article 8, 2       70.41
Chapter 23, Article 8, 3       70.42
Chapter 23, Article 8, 4       70.43
Chapter 23, Article 8, 5       70.44
Chapter 23, Article 8, 6       70.45
Chapter 23, Article I, 1       110.15
Chapter 23, Article I, 2       110.16
Chapter 23, Article I, 3       110.17
Chapter 23, Article I, 4       110.17
Chapter 23, Article I, 6       110.18
Chapter 23, Article I, 7       110.19
Chapter 23, Article I, 8       110.20
Chapter 23, Article I, 9       110.21
Chapter 23, Article I, 10      110.23
Chapter 23, Article I, 11      110.25;
                               110.99
Chapter 23, Article I, 12      110.24
Chapter 23, Article I, 13      110.23
Chapter 23, Article I, 14      110.22
Chapter 24, Appendix A         156.081
Chapter 24, Article 1          156.001
Chapter 24, Article 2          156.002
Chapter 24, Article 3, 1       156.003
Chapter 24, Article 3, 2       156.003
Chapter 24, Article 3, 3       156.003
Chapter 24, Article 3, 4       156.004
Chapter 24, Article 3, 5       156.004
Chapter 24, Article 3, 6       156.005
Chapter 24, Article 3, 7       156.005
Chapter 24, Article 3A         156.006
Chapter 24, Article 4, 1       156.020
Chapter 24, Article 4, 2       156.021
Chapter 24, Article 4, 3       156.022
Chapter 24, Article 4, 4       156.023
Chapter 24, Article 4, 5       156.024
Chapter 24, Article 4, 6       156.025
Chapter 24, Article 4, 7       156.026
Chapter 24, Article 4, 8       156.026
Chapter 24, Article 4, 9       156.027
Chapter 24, Article 4, 10      156.028
Chapter 24, Article 5, 1       156.040
Chapter 24, Article 5, 2       156.041
Chapter 24, Article 5, 3       156.042
Chapter 24, Article 5, 4       156.043
Chapter 24, Article 5, 5       156.044
Chapter 24, Article 5, 6       156.045
Chapter 24, Article 5, 7       156.045
Chapter 24, Article 5, 8       156.046
Chapter 24, Article 5, 9       156.047
Chapter 24, Article 6, 1       156.060
Chapter 24, Article 6, 2       156.061
Chapter 24, Article 6, 3       156.062
Chapter 24, Article 6, 4       156.063
Chapter 24, Article 6, 5       156.064
Chapter 24, Article 6, 6       156.065
Chapter 24, Article 6, 7       156.065
Chapter 24, Article 6, 8       156.066
Chapter 24, Article 7, 1       156.080
Chapter 24, Article 7, 2       156.082
Chapter 24, Article 7, 3       156.083
Chapter 24, Article 7, 4       156.084
Chapter 24, Article 7, 5       156.085
Chapter 24, Article 7, 6       156.086
Chapter 24, Article 7, 7       156.086
Chapter 24, Article 7, 8       156.087
Chapter 24, Article 7, 9       156.088
Chapter 24, Article 8, 1       156.100
Chapter 24, Article 8, 2       156.101
Chapter 24, Article 8, 3       156.102
Chapter 24, Article 8, 4       156.103
Chapter 24, Article 8, 5       156.104
Chapter 24, Article 8, 6       156.105
Chapter 24, Article 8, 7       156.106
Chapter 24, Article 8, 8       156.106
Chapter 24, Article 8, 9       156.107
Chapter 24, Article 8A, 1      156.120
Chapter 24, Article 8A, 2      156.121
Chapter 24, Article 8A, 3      156.122
Chapter 24, Article 8A, 4      156.123
Chapter 24, Article 8A, 5      156.124
Chapter 24, Article 8A, 6      156.125
Chapter 24, Article 8A, 7      156.126
Chapter 24, Article 8A, 8      156.126
Chapter 24, Article 8A, 10     156.127
Chapter 24, Article 8A, 12     156.120
Chapter 24, Article 9, 1       156.140
Chapter 24, Article 9, 2       156.141
Chapter 24, Article 9, 3       156.142
Chapter 24, Article 9, 4       156.143
Chapter 24, Article 9, 5       156.144
Chapter 24, Article 9, 6       156.145
Chapter 24, Article 9, 7       156.146
Chapter 24, Article 9, 8       156.146
Chapter 24, Article 9, 9       156.147
Chapter 24, Article 9, 10      156.148
Chapter 24, Article 10, 1      156.160
Chapter 24, Article 10, 2      156.161
Chapter 24, Article 10, 3      156.162
Chapter 24, Article 10, 4      156.163
Chapter 24, Article 10, 5      156.164
Chapter 24, Article 10, 6      156.165
Chapter 24, Article 10, 7      156.166
Chapter 24, Article 10, 8      156.166
Chapter 24, Article 10, 9      156.167
Chapter 24, Article 11, 1      156.180
Chapter 24, Article 11, 2      156.181
Chapter 24, Article 11, 3      156.182
Chapter 24, Article 11, 4      156.183
Chapter 24, Article 11, 5      156.184
Chapter 24, Article 11, 6      156.185
Chapter 24, Article 11, 7      156.185
Chapter 24, Article 11, 8      156.186
Chapter 24, Article 11, 9      156.187
Chapter 24, Article 12, 1      156.200
Chapter 24, Article 12, 2      156.201
Chapter 24, Article 12, 3      156.202
Chapter 24, Article 12, 4      156.203
Chapter 24, Article 12, 5      156.204
Chapter 24, Article 12, 6      156.205
Chapter 24, Article 12, 7      156.206
Chapter 24, Article 13         156.220
Chapter 24, Article 14         156.221
Chapter 24, Article 15         156.222
Chapter 24, Article 16         156.223
Chapter 24, Article 17         156.235
Chapter 24, Article 18         156.236
Chapter 24, Article 19         156.237
Chapter 24, Article 20         156.001
Chapter 24, Article 21         156.238
Chapter 24, Article 24         156.999
Chapter 25, 1                  34.20
Chapter 25, 2                  34.21
Chapter 25, 3                  34.22
Chapter 25, 4                  34.23
Chapter 25, 5                  34.24
Chapter 25, 6                  34.25
Chapter 25, 7                  34.26
Chapter 25, 8                  34.27
Chapter 25, 9                  34.28
Chapter 25, 10                 34.29
Chapter 25, 11                 34.30
Chapter 25, 12                 34.31
                               
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.             Date Passed  Code Section
3 (Series 1953-1954) - -            31.24
1 (Series 1955-1956) - -            31.04
1 (Series 1956-1957) - -            72.01
1 (Series 1967-1968) - -            31.02
6 (Series 1971-1972) - -            52.52
                                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.               Date Passed Code Section
13 (Series 1947-1948)  - -         30.34
                                   150.01—
                                   150.03;
2 (Series 1949-1950)   - -         150.20;
                                   150.22;
                                   150.99
6 (Series 1949-1950)   - -         34.23
8 (Series 1949-1950)   - -         34.03
10 (Series 1950-1951)  - -         31.44
11 (Series 1951-1952)  - -         34.21
12 (Series 1951-1952)  - -         34.22
13 (Series 1951-1952)  - -         34.20
15 (Series 1953-1954)  - -         150.21
10 (Series 1955-1956)  - -         52.50
12 (Series 1957-1976)  - -         91.16
1 (Series 1959-1960)   - -         34.24
3 (Series 1959-1960)   - -         72.02
19 (Series 1960-1961)  - -         70.06
3 (Series 1961-1962)   - -         34.25
9 (Series 1965-1966)   - -         150.21
12 (Series 1965-1966)  - -         50.21
8 (Series 1966-1967)   - -         72.03
7 (Series 1967-1968)   - -         34.24
9 (Series 1967-1968)   - -         34.25
19 (Series 1967-1968)  - -         72.04
4 (Series 1969-1970)   - -         131.11
6 (Series 1969-1970)   - -         150.05
11 (Series 1969-1970)  - -         52.51
4 (Series 1970-1971)   - -         93.01;
                                   93.99
6 (Series 1970-1971)   - -         Chapter 75, Schedule II
11 (Series 1970-1971)  - -         Chapter 75, Schedule II
4 (Series 1971-1972)   - -         132.19
6 (Series 1971-1972)   - -         50.46
14 (Series 1972-1973)  - -         34.04
17 (Series 1972-1973)  - -         31.20
1 (Series 1973-1974)   - -         50.20
6 (Series 1973-1974)   - -         31.44
10 (Series 1973-1974)  - -         111.46
11 (Series 1973-1974)  - -         111.51
16 (Series 1973-1974)  - -         110.17
17 (Series 1973-1974)  - -         11.01
1 (Series 1974-1975)   - -         50.20
3 (Series 1974-1975)   - -         152.01—
                                   152.04
5 (Series 1974-1975)   - -         Chapter 74, Schedule III
15 (Series 1974-1975)  - -         34.26
16 (Series 1974-1975)  - -         31.41
2 (Series 1975-1976)   - -         111.06
4 (Series 1975-1976)   - -         31.43
5 (Series 1975-1976)   - -         34.28
6 (Series 1975-1976)   - -         34.27
8 (Series 1975-1976)   - -         31.43
10 (Series 1975-1976)  - -         111.51
11 (Series 1975-1976)  - -         Chapter 74, Schedule III
13 (Series 1975-1976)  - -         Chapter 75, Schedule II
19 (Series 1975-1976)  - -         130.22;
                                   130.99
2 (Series 1976-1977)   - -         131.16;
                                   131.99
12 (Series 1976-1977)  - -         Chapter 74, Schedule III
                                   11.16;
14 (Series 1976-1977)  - -         11.17;
                                   111.48
24 (Series 1976-1977)  - -         Chapter 74, Schedule III
2 (Series 1977-1978)   - -         92.01
5 (Series 1977-1975)   - -         Chapter 74, Schedule III
8 (Series 1977-1978)   - -         31.43
10 (Series 1977-1978)  - -         Chapter 75, Schedule I
4 (Series 1978-1979)   - -         50.23
8 (Series 1978-1979)   - -         150.21
10 (Series 1978-1979)  - -         151.19;
                                   Chapter 75, Schedule II
14 (Series 1978-1979)  - -         30.34
19 (Series 1978-1979)  - -         111.51
21 (Series 1978-1979)  - -         52.54;
                                   52.99
                                   155.01—
                                   155.07;
                                   155.20—
                                   155.24;
2 (Series 1979-1980)   - -         155.35—
                                   155.42;
                                   155.55—
                                   155.59;
                                   155.99
9 (Series 1979-1980)   - -         92.01
18 (Series 1979-1980)  - -         111.48
19 (Series 1979-1980)  - -         50.48
22 (Series 1979-1980)  - -         150.05
23 (Series 1979-1980)  - -         32.12
15 (Series 1980-1981)  - -         11.37
2 (Series 1981-1982)   - -         150.20
11 (Series 1981-1982)  - -         Chapter 74, Schedule III
13 (Series 1981-1982)  - -         50.46
17 (Series 1981-1982)  - -         50.22
4 (Series 1982-1983)   - -         52.17
11 (Series 1982-1983)  - -         72.05
8 (Series 1983-1984)   - -         132.15
8.1 (Series 1983-1984) - -         50.15
12 (Series 1983-1984)  - -         Chapter 74, Schedule III
16 (Series 1983-1984)  - -         52.53
18 (Series 1983-1984)  - -         Chapter 74, Schedule I
4 (Series 1984-1985)   - -         111.46;
                                   111.99
5 (Series 1984-1985)   - -         111.99
9 (Series 1984-1985)   - -         150.04
13 (Series 1984-1985)  - -         131.13;
                                   131.99
14 (Series 1984-1985)  - -         50.22
14 (Series 1998-1999)  - -1999     111.05;
                                   111.99
                                   154.01—
10 (Series 2009-2010)  - -2009     154.13;
                                   154.99
1 (Series 1985-1986)   7-15-1985   33.16—
                                   33.24
4 (Series 1985-1986)   7-15-1985   52.54;
                                   52.99
3 (Series 1985-1986)   8-5-1985    Chapter 75, Schedule II
15 (Series 1985-1986)  3-17-1986   Chapter 74, Schedule I
16 (Series1985-1986)   3-17-1986   Chapter 74, Schedule I
3 (Series 1986-1987)   7-21-1986   52.35
18 (Series 1985-1986)  10-6-1986   156.235
19 (Series 1985-1986)  10-6-1986   156.002
6 (Series 1986-1987)   10-6-1986   Chapter 75, Schedule II
8 (Series 1986-1987)   10-6-1986   Chapter 75, Schedule I
9 (Series 1986-1987)   1-5-1987    111.04
10 (Series 1986-1987)  2-2-1987    50.23
11 (Series 1986-1987)  2-2-1987    Chapter 75, Schedule III
6 (Series 1987-1988)   9-21-1987   Chapter 75, Schedule I
10 (Series 1987-1988)  1-19-1988   111.02
14A (Series 1987-1988) 3-21-1988   91.32
                                   93.15—
4 (Series 1989-1990)   6-19-1989   93.17;
                                   93.99
6 (Series 1989-1990)   7-17-1989   Chapter 74, Schedule III
8 (Series 1989-1990)   10-2-1989   92.15—
                                   92.18
9 (Series 1989-1990)   11-20-1989  31.61
13 (Series 1989-1990)  12-18-1989  Chapter 74, Schedule III
15 (Series 1989-1990)  2-5-1990    Chapter 74, Schedule III
18 (Series 1989-1990)  2-19-1990   Chapter 75, Schedule III
                                   156.023;
                                   156.043;
                                   156.063;
19 (Series 1989-1990)  3-5-1990    156.104;
                                   156.146;
                                   156.183;
                                   156.203;
                                   156.084
20 (Series 1989-1990)  4-16-1990   Chapter 74, Schedule I
8 (Series 1990-1991)   8-20-1990   70.45;
                                   Chapter 74, Schedule II
10 (Series 1990-1991)  10-15-1990  Chapter 75, Schedule II
                                   156.003;
12 (Series 1990-1991)  12-3-1990   156.120—
                                   156.127
18 (Series 1990-1991)  2-19-1991   Chapter 75, Schedule III
21 (Series 1990-1991)  5-20-1991   31.40
4 (Series 1991-1992)   7-15-1991   34.29
5 (Series 1991-1992)   7-15-1991   34.30
                                   70.45;
7 (Series 1991-1992)   8-19-1991   71.48;
                                   131.16;
                                   131.99
9 (Series 1991-1992)   9-16-1991   33.18
18 (Series 1991-1992)  1-6-1992    150.05
19 (Series 1991-1992)  1-6-1992    156.237
20 (Series 1991-1992)  1-20-1992   Chapter 75, Schedule I
21 (Series 1991-1992)  4-6-1992    Chapter 74, Schedule III
3 (Series 1992-1993)   7-7-1992    Chapter 74, Schedule I
5 (Series 1992-1993)   7-20-1992   150.23
6 (Series 1992-1993)   8-17-1992   Chapter 75, Schedule II
7 (Series 1992-1993)   9-21-1992   31.41
9 (Series 1992-1993)   9-8-1992    Chapter 75, Schedule III
12 (Series 1992-1993)  11-16-1992  151.18
13 (Series 1992-1993)  12-21-1992  52.04
16 (Series 1992-1993)  1-4-1993    91.15
18 (Series 1992-1993)  2-16-1993   70.99
                                   156.026;
19 (Series 1992-1993)  4-19-1993   156.028;
                                   156.045;
                                   156.047
5 (Series 1993-1994)   10-18-1993  151.19
8 (Series 1993-1994)   1-3-1994    92.19
9 (Series 1993-1994)   4-4-1994    31.01
5 (Series 1994-1995)   8-15-1994   Chapter 75, Schedule II
                                   50.01;
6 (Series 1994-1995)   8-15-1994   50.99;
                                   52.54;
                                   52.99
9 (Series 1994-1995)   11-21-1994  34.29
11 (Series 1994-1995)  12-5-1994   Chapter 74, Schedule III
14 (Series 1994-1995)  2-6-1995    Chapter 74, Schedule III
4 (Series 1995-1996)   7-3-1995    50.22
                                   92.30—
5 (Series 1995-1996)   8-7-1995    92.32;
                                   92.99
6 (Series 1995-1996)   1-15-1996   Chapter 74, Schedule I
4 (Series 1996-1997)   7-1-1996    34.31
6 (Series 1996-1997)   9-3-1996    31.40
7 (Series 1996-1997)   9-3-1996    91.31
8 (Series 1996-1997)   9-16-1996   50.02;
                                   50.99
4 (Series 1997-1998)   6-2-1997    70.06
6 (Series 1997-1998)   6-16-1997   156.006
7 (Series 1997-1998)   9-15-1997   Chapter 74, Schedule III
8 (Series 1997-1998)   12-1-1997   Chapter 74, Schedule III
10 (Series 1997-1998)  12-15-1997  Chapter 75, Schedule II
17 (Series 1997-1998)  4-20-1998   92.99
                                   156.002;
                                   156.006;
                                   156.023;
3 (Series 1998-1999)   5-18-1998   156.104;
                                   156.186;
                                   156.187;
                                   156.237
7 (Series 1998-1999)   8-17-1998   Chapter 75, Schedule II
11 (Series 1998-1999)  11-2-1998   52.34
                                   53.01—53.07;
12 (Series 1998-1999)  11-2-1998   53.20—
                                   53.28;
                                   53.99
4 (Series 1999-2000)   7-6-1999    34.07
8 (Series 1999-2000)   10-18-1999  Chapter 75, Schedule II
9 (Series 1999-2000)   12-6-1999   132.19
2 (Series 2000-2001)   5-1-2000    156.239
6 (Series 2000-2001)   6-5-2000    Chapter 75, Schedule III
9 (Series 2000-2001)   10-2-2000   92.32
16 (Series 2000-2001)  2-20-2001   10.99
14 (Series 2000-2001)  4-2-2001    Chapter 75, Schedule II
15 (Series 2000-2001)  4-2-2001    50.01;
                                   50.99
                                   95.01—
3 (Series 2001-2002)   6-4-2001    95.03;
                                   95.99
4 (Series 2001-2002)   6-4-2001    Chapter 74, Schedule III
5 (Series 2001-2002)   6-4-2001    Chapter 74, Schedule III
10 (Series 2001-2002)  9-4-2001    Chapter 74, Schedule III
11 (Series 2001-2002)  9-4-2001    Chapter 74, Schedule III
12 (Series 2001-2002)  9-4-2001    52.33
9 (Series 2001-2002)   9-4-2001    Chapter 75, Schedule III
16 (Series 2001-2002)  2-19-2002   70.22
9 (Series 2002-2003)   10-21-2002  51.03
12 (Series 2002-2003)  3-3-2003    111.27
13 (Series 2002-2003)  3-3-2003    110.01
2 (Series 2003-2004)   5-5-2003    111.02
2 (Series 2004-2005)   5-3-2004    31.22;
                                   31.99
                                   114.01—
                                   114.03;
                                   114.15—
                                   114.21;
7 (Series 2003-2004)   7-6-2004    114.35—
                                   114.42;
                                   114.99;
                                   156.002;
                                   156.222
6 (Series 2007-2008)   10-1-2004   Chapter 74, Schedule III
12 (Series 2004-2005)  10-4-2004   73.01
14 (Series 2004-2005)  10-4-2004   Chapter 74, Schedule III
16 (Series 2004-2005)  11-15-2004  111.45
                                   51.01;
                                   51.02;
                                   51.04;
                                   51.05;
                                   51.20—
4 (Series 2004-2005)   3-21-2005   51.28;
                                   51.40—
                                   51.44;
                                   51.55—
                                   51.62;
                                   51.99
3 (Series 2005-2006)   9-19-2005   51.55
4 (Series 2005-2006)   10-3-2005   Chapter 74, Schedule I
5 (Series 2005-2006)   10-3-2005   Chapter 74, Schedule III
3 (Series 2006-2007)   7-17-2006   Chapter 75, Schedule II
4 (Series 2006-2007)   9-5-2006    94.01;
                                   94.99
5 (Series 2006-2007)   10-16-2006  150.06;
                                   150.99
6 (Series 2006-2007)   11-6-2006   Chapter 75, Schedule II
8 (Series 2006-2007)   2-19-2007   Chapter 75, Schedule III
3 (Series 2007-2008)   5-7-2007    Chapter 75, Schedule III
20 (Series 2008-2009)  2-2-2008    94.02
2 (Series 2008-2009)   5-19-2008   Chapter 74, Schedule I
4 (Series 2008-2009)   5-19-2008   71.46
9 (Series 2008-2009)   8-18-2008   91.31
10 (Series 2008-2009)  9-2-2008    33.03
13 (Series 2008-2009)  9-2-2008    33.01
15 (Series 2008-2009)  10-6-2008   50.16
                                   111.02;
21 (Series 2008-2009)  2-16-2009   111.26;
                                   111.27;
                                   111.47
3 (Series 2009-2010)   5-18-2009   91.02
7 (Series 2009-2010)   7-20-2009   51.56
8 (Series 2009-2010)   7-20-2009   52.34
9 (Series 2009-2010)   8-3-2009    156.237
6 (Series 2011-2012)   8-15-2011   11.16;
                                   11.17
9 (Series 2011-2012)   4-2-2012    70.45;
                                   71.49
2 (Series 2012-2013)   5-7-2012    33.02
4 (Series 2012-2013)   6-4-2012    Chapter 74, Schedule III
6 (Series 2012-2013)   7-2-2012    31.25
8 (Series 2012-2013)   10-1-2012   113.02
10A (Series 2012-2013) 10-1-2012   34.06
14 (Series 2012-2013)  4-15-2013   31.23
4 (Series 2013-2014)   9-16-2013   34.05
                                   90.001—
                                   90.006;
                                   90.020—
                                   90.027;
                                   90.040—
7 (Series 2013-2014)   10-7-2013   90.051;
                                   90.065—
                                   90.069;
                                   90.080—
                                   90.088;
                                   90.999
2 (Series 2014-2015)   5-19-2014   73.15—
                                   73.19
10 (Series 2014-2015)  4-20-2015   31.06
2 (Series 2015-2016)   5-18-2015   50.04
4 (Series 2015-2016)   6-15-2015   70.46;
                                   71.33
5 (Series 2015-2016)   6-15-2015   70.46
8 (Series 2015-2016)   7-6-2015    50.04
9 (Series 2015-2016)   9-8-2015    50.04
15 (Series 2015-2016)  1-19-2016   151.04;
                                   151.99
4 (Series 2016-2017)   8-15-2016   33.15
12 (Series 2016-2017)  2-20-2017   Chapter 75, Schedule II
2 (Series 2018-2019)   5-7-2018    31.03
5 (Series 2018-2019)   7-16-2018   70.99;
                                   72.06
                                   153.01—
6 (Series 2018-2019)   7-16-2018   153.10;
                                   153.25—
                                   153.31
7 (Series 2018-2019)   11-5-2018   31.21;
                                   31.99
                                   151.55—
10 (Series 2018-2019)  3-4-2019    151.60;
                                   151.99
4 (Series 2019-2020)   11-18-2019  34.32
                                   112.01—
13 (Series 2020-2021)  1-19-2020   112.03;
                                   112.99
8 (Series 2019-2020)   4-6-2020    156.224
                                   30.08;
6 (Series 2020-2021)   10-5-2020   30.22;
                                   31.40;
                                   31.41
10 (Series 2020-2021)  11-2-2020   Chapter 74, Schedule III
18 (Series 2020-2021)  1-19-2021   33.02
3 (Series 2021-2022)   9-20-2021   111.03
5 (Series 2021-2022)   3-7-2022    51.06;
                                   51.99
2 (Series 2022-2023)   6-6-2022    Chapter 74, Schedule III
6 (Series 2022-2023)   10-3-2022   Chapter 74, Schedule III
10 (Series 2022-2023)  1-17-2023   Chapter 75, Schedule I
11 (Series 2022-2023)  1-17-2023   Chapter 75, Schedule I
13 (Series 2022-2023)  2-6-2023    Chapter 74, Schedule III
15 (Series 2022-2023)  3-20-2023   Chapter 75, Schedule I
4 (Series 2023-2024)   8-21-2023   Chapter 74, Schedule III
                                  
 
