VILLAGE CODE
of
HAMPSHIRE, ILLINOIS
1985
Code current through:
Ord. 25-22, passed 6-5-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Village of Hampshire, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 25-22, passed 6-6-2025. Ordinances of
the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code
to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
85-16
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE HAMPSHIRE MUNICIPAL CODE OF 1985
   WHEREAS, the Hampshire Board of Trustees has undertaken a comprehensive
review of the existing laws and ordinances of the Village; and
   WHEREAS, the Hampshire Board of Trustees prior to this date, by motion duly
made and seconded, and/or by ordinance duly enacted, has formerly approved
amended provisions of its Municipal Code relating to the following matters:
CHAPTER 1  MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
CHAPTER 2  POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 3  ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 5  BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 6  ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 7  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 8  SEWER AND WATER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 9  STREETS AND SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 10 INDUSTRIAL PROJECT REVENUE BONDS
CHAPTER 11 THE CODE
 
   WHEREAS, the provisions of amended Chapter 4 shall relate to Business
Regulations, and shall incorporate Chapter 15, Merchants, of the Hampshire
Municipal Code of 1966 in full, and further, shall incorporate the provisions
contained in Ordinance No. 78-3 relating to Garbage Collection Licenses; and
are hereby approved by the Board;
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
VILLAGE OF HAMPSHIRE, KANE COUNTY, ILLINOIS:
   Section 1: That this Ordinance, consisting of eleven (11) chapters, attached
hereto and incorporated herein by this reference, as follows:
CHAPTER 1  MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
CHAPTER 2  POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 3  ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 4  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 5  BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 6  ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 7  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 8  SEWER AND WATER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 9  STREETS AND SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 10 INDUSTRIAL PROJECT REVENUE BONDS
CHAPTER 11 THE CODE
 
   Be, and the same hereby is, enacted and adopted as the Hampshire Municipal
Code of 1985, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the enabling provisions
set forth in Chapter 11, The Code.
   Section 2: That any and all ordinances, resolutions, and orders, or parts
thereof, in conflict with the provisions of this Ordinance, are hereby repealed
to the extent of and with the exceptions contained in Section 11-4-1 of the
enabling provisions contained in Chapter 11, Section 11-4-1, of the attached
Hampshire Municipal Code of 1985.
   Section 3: That if any section, subdivision, sentence or phrase of this
Ordinance is for any reason held to be void, invalid, or unconstitutional, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Ordinance.
   Section 4: That this Ordinance shall be in full force and effect after its
passage, and approval as provided by law, and after publication in pamphlet
form pursuant to the authority of the Board of Trustees.
   Adopted this 18th day of April, 1985, pursuant to roll call vote as follows:
AYES:       4
NAYS:       0
ABSENT:       0
            /s/ Robert Kudlicki   
             Robert Kudlicki, Village President
Attest:
/s/ Deanne Tamms
Deanne Tamms, Village Clerk
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Village President   I
Board Of Trustees   II
Village Clerk   III
Village Treasurer   IV
Village Deputy Clerk   V
Village Attorney   VI
Village Engineer   VII
Village Employees   VIII
Emergency Service And Disaster Agency   IX
Village Collector   X
Ethics Regulations   XI
Village Manager   XII
Budget Officer   XIII
Board Of Police Commissioners   XIV
Police Pension Board Of Trustees   XV
Business Development Commission   XVI
ARTICLE I
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-1-1: Election And Term
1-1-2: Bond And Oath
1-1-3: Powers And Duties
1-1-4: Temporary Absence Or Disability
1-1-5: Vacancy
1-1-6: Compensation
1-1-7: Formal Occasions
1-1-8: Local State Of Emergency
1-1-1: ELECTION AND TERM:
The Village President shall be elected for a four (4) year term and shall serve
until his successor is elected and qualified as is provided by the Illinois
Compiled Statutes. (1985 Code)
1-1-2: BOND AND OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the Village President shall take
and subscribe the oath of office as provided by the Illinois Compiled Statutes
and shall execute a bond in such amount and with such sureties as may be
required by the Board of Trustees, conditioned upon the faithful performance of
the duties of his office. (1985 Code)
1-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The Village President shall be the President of the Board of Trustees
and shall preside at all meetings of the Board.
   B.   The Village President shall, except as provided otherwise by the
Illinois Compiled Statutes, have the powers and perform the duties of Chief
Executive Officer of the Village.
   C.   The Village President shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees, all officers of the Village whose election or
appointment is not otherwise provided for by the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
Any vacancy occurring in an appointive office shall be filled in the same
manner.
   D.   The Village President shall supervise the conduct of all officers of
the Village and see that they faithfully and efficiently discharge the duties
of their respective offices. He shall inquire into all reasonable complaints
made against them and cause all their neglects or violations of duty to be
promptly corrected; and he shall, in case he becomes satisfied that any officer
wilfully neglects or violates his duties, cause such officer to be prosecuted
and punished.
   E.   The Village President may remove any officer appointed by him, on any
formal charge, whenever he is of the opinion that the interests of the Village
demand removal; but he shall report the reasons for the removal to the Board of
Trustees at a meeting to be held not less than five (5) nor more than ten (10)
days after the removal. If the Village President fails or refuses to report to
the Board of Trustees the reasons for the removal, or if the Board of Trustees,
by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all its elected members authorized by law,
disapproves of the removal, the officer thereupon shall be restored to the
office or position from which he was removed. The vote shall be by yeas and
nays, which vote shall be entered upon the Board of Trustees' minutes. Upon
restoration, the officer shall give a new bond, and a new oath of office, if
required by law. No officer shall be removed a second time for the same
offense.
   F.   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective powers or duties of
any appointed officer in the Village, the Village President shall settle the
dispute after consulting with the Village Attorney.
   G.   The Village President shall have the power to delegate to any appointed
officer any duty which is to be performed when no specific officer has been
directed to perform that duty.
   H.   The Village President shall sign all licenses and permits granted by
the authority of the President and Board of Trustees, except as otherwise
provided by law or Village ordinance.
   I.   If the Village President disapproves of any resolution, motion or
ordinance, he shall return it to the Board of Trustees with his written
objections at the next regular meeting not less than five (5) days after its
passage. Any such vetoed resolution, motion or ordinance, upon reconsideration
by the Board of Trustees, shall become effective if two-thirds (2/3) of the
Board shall vote to pass it. (1985 Code)
   J.   The Village President shall appoint members of the Board of Trustees to
serve on standing committees of the Board, and shall designate one (1) member
of each such committee to serve as Chair, as provided in section
1-2-13 of this title. (Ord. 16-29, 12-1-2016)
   K.   The Village President shall have such additional powers and duties as
provided by the Illinois Compiled Statutes. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 16-29, 12-1-
2016; amd. Ord. 19-06, 3-21-2019; Ord. 20-14, 5-7-2020)
1-1-4: TEMPORARY ABSENCE OR DISABILITY:
During a temporary absence or disability of the Village President, the Board of
Trustees may, by a proper motion duly seconded and passed by a majority vote of
the quorum, elect one (1) of its members to act as President Pro Tem who,
during such absence or disability, shall possess the powers of the Village
President. (1985 Code)
1-1-5: VACANCY:
Whenever a vacancy in the Office of the Village President occurs during his
term, the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the term at the next
election of the Village Trustees, unless the vacancy is filled by special
election as provided by law. During the period of time that the vacancy occurs,
until a Village President is elected and has been qualified, the Board of
Trustees shall elect one (1) of its members to be acting Village President, who
shall possess the powers of the Village President. (1985 Code)
1-1-6: COMPENSATION:
The salary of the Village President shall be, and the same is hereby fixed at
nine thousand five hundred dollars ($9,500.00) per annum. (Ord. 93-4, 2-18-
1993)
1-1-7: FORMAL OCCASIONS:
The Village President shall act for and on behalf of the Village on formal
occasions and receptions; but in his absence or inability to attend any such
function, the Board of Trustees may select any other Village officer to so act.
(1985 Code)
1-1-8: LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY:
   A.    Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
                   A prohibition against any person walking, running,
                   loitering, standing, cycling, or motoring upon any alley,
CURFEW:            street, highway, public property or vacant premises within
                   the corporate limits of the Village, except officials of any
                   governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty
                   with reference to an emergency.
                   (1) A riot; or an unlawful assembly characterized by the use
                   of actual force or violence, or any threat to use force or
                   violence made or constituted by three or more persons acting
                   together without authority of law; or (2) Any natural
                   disaster, epidemic, pandemic, or manmade calamity, including
EMERGENCY:         outbreak of disease or virus, flood, conflagration, cyclone,
                   tornado, earthquake, or explosion, or imminent threat of any
                   of those events within the corporate limits of the Village,
                   resulting in or threatening the death or injury of persons,
                   or the destruction of property, to such an extent that
                   extraordinary measures are deemed necessary or advisable to
                   protect the public health, safety and welfare.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The duly elected or acting president of the Village, or his
                   or her officially designated successor.
 
   B.   Declaration of Local Emergency: Whenever in the judgment of the Village
President, an emergency as defined in §
1-1-8A of this chapter exists, the Village President is authorized to declare a
local state of emergency. Provided, he or she shall do so by means of a written
declaration, executed under oath, setting forth the facts which constitute the
emergency, describing the nature of the emergency, and declaring that a local
state of emergency exists in accordance with the definitions set forth in this
section. Such declaration shall be filed with the Village Clerk as soon as
practicable after issuance.
   C.   Duration: The declaration herein authorized shall be effective for a
period of up to twenty one (21) days, or until the adjournment of the next
regular or special meeting of the Village Board of Trustees, whichever comes
first, unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the Village President
indicating that the emergency no longer exists. The Village President shall
have the power to re-proclaim the existence of an emergency at the end of each
twenty one (21) day period during the time said emergency exists or continues.
   D.   Curfew Authorized: After proclamation of a local state of emergency
under this section, the Village President may order a general curfew applicable
to the Village as a whole, or to any such geographical areas of the Village, as
he or she deems reasonable and advisable, to be applicable during such hours of
the day or night as he or she deems to be necessary in the interests of public
health, safety or welfare.
   E.   Orders Authorized: After the proclamation of a local state of
emergency, the Village President, in the interest of public health, safety or
welfare, and to address the circumstances and/or issues caused or threatened by
the emergency, may also take any or all of the following actions by executive
order during the state of emergency:
      1.   Order all actions reasonably necessary to respond to the emergency;
      2.   Approve previously appropriated expenditures of the Village for the
purpose of continuing the operations of the municipality; and
      3.   In the event the local state of emergency extends beyond the current
fiscal year and a new budget has not been approved, approve new spending by the
Village during the existence of the local state of emergency.
      4.   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of alcoholic liquor
of any type is permitted;
      5.   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquors by any
retailer or wholesaler;
      6.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
      7.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing, or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever;
      8.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing, or
giving away of cannabis and/or cannabis-related products, except as otherwise
allowed under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act.
   F.   Notice: Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the Village
Clerk shall notify the news media situated within the Village, and shall cause
a copy of the proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency and any
curfew to be posted at not less than three (3) locations in the Village,
including at the following places within the Village: Village Hall, the police
station, the US post office, and when practicable, elsewhere within the
geographical area of any curfew imposed.
   G.   Violations: Any person violating the provisions of this section, or the
provisions of any executive order(s) issued pursuant hereto, shall be guilty of
an offense against the Village and shall be subject to a fine of not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), plus court costs, for each offense. For purposes of this section,
each day that an offense occurs or continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   H.   Effect: Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to impair
the powers set forth in this Code for the Village police department, but shall
be construed together with such provisions now in effect for the safety and
welfare of the citizens of the Village. (Ord. 20-12, 4-2-2020)
ARTICLE II
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-2-1: Term
1-2-2: Oath
1-2-3: Duties
1-2-4: Compensation
1-2-5: Vacancy
1-2-6: Meetings
1-2-7: Attendance; Quorum
1-2-8: Presiding Officer
1-2-9: Deciding Vote
1-2-10: Ordinances; Approval; Veto
1-2-11: Reconsideration; Passing Over Veto
1-2-12: Rescinded Action
1-2-13: Standing Committees
1-2-14: Order Of Business
1-2-15: Rules Of Order
1-2-16: Disturbing Meetings
1-2-1: TERM:
The board of trustees, consisting of six (6) members, shall be elected to
office for a term of four (4) years, and shall serve until their successors are
elected and have qualified. (1985 Code)
1-2-2: OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of the office, each trustee shall take and
subscribe the oath of office as provided by the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
(1985 Code)
1-2-3: DUTIES:
The board of trustees shall be the legislative department of the village
government, and shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be
authorized and delegated by the Illinois Compiled Statutes. (1985 Code)
1-2-4: COMPENSATION:
   A.   The village trustees shall be paid seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
regular board meeting, reconvened regular meeting, special meeting or committee
of the whole meeting actually attended by said trustee.
   B.   A trustee shall be compensated for attending the following:
      1.   Any meeting of a committee of the board of trustees of which the
trustee is an appointed member;
      2.   Any meeting or official function of any outside entity to which the
trustee is appointed as a representative of the village, or is directed to
attend as such representative by the president or by a majority of a quorum of
the board of trustees (for such determination, the person to so attend being
excluded from the vote); and
      3.   Any meeting of any other committee of the board of trustees, or a
meeting of the Planning & Zoning Commission, but only either when requested to
attend the meeting by the chair of the village committee, commission or board,
as the case may be; or when directed to attend by the village president or by
majority of a quorum of the board of trustees (for such determination, the
person to so attend being excluded from the vote).
      4.   The trustee serving as zoning administrator may attend a meeting of
or public hearing conducted by the Planning & Zoning Commission, as he deems
necessary and advisable, and shall be compensated therefor.
   C.   The compensation for attending any such meeting or function shall be
twenty five dollars ($25.00) per meeting or function. The rate of compensation
established by this subsection shall take effect as of May 1, 2003, and shall
apply to those members of the board of trustees whose term of office shall
commence in 2003 and thereafter. (Ord. 93-2-A, 2-18-1993; amd. Ord. 06-24, 6-1-
2006; Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
1-2-5: VACANCY:
Whenever a vacancy in the office of a trustee occurs during his term, the
vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the term at the next election of
trustees, unless such vacancy is filled by a special election as provided by
the Illinois Compiled Statutes. During the period from the time that the
vacancy occurs, until a trustee is elected and has qualified, the vacancy may
be filled by the appointment of a trustee by the village president and
remaining trustees, voting jointly. (1985 Code)
1-2-6: MEETINGS:
   A.   All regular meetings of the village president and board of trustees
shall be held on each of the first and third Thursdays of each calendar month,
at such time as is appointed by the board of trustees from time to time;
provided, however, that when any such meeting day shall fall on a holiday, the
meeting may be held on such other day as is determined by the board of
trustees; and provided further, the board of trustees may elect by a majority
vote of its members to conduct any such meeting as a committee of the whole.
(Ord. 09-16, 5-7-2009)
   B.   The meeting place of the village president and board of trustees may be
held for the purpose of completing unfinished business at such time or times as
may be determined by the board of trustees.
   C.   Adjourned meetings of the village president and board of trustees may
be held for the purpose of completing unfinished business at such time or times
as may be determined by the board of trustees. (1985 Code)
   D.   Special meetings of the village president and board of trustees may be
called by the village president or by any three (3) members of the board of
trustees, by notice in writing to all members of the board of trustees and the
village president. The written notice calling for said special meeting shall
state the time, place and purpose for which it is called, and shall be
delivered to the village clerk, who shall thereupon file same in his office and
make copies thereof. Public notice of any such special meeting shall be
provided in accordance with law. A written or printed copy of such call shall
be left at the place of residence or abode of the village president and members
of said board, excepting those persons making the call. (Ord. 07-49, 10-18-
2007)
   E.   Committee of the whole meetings of the village president and board of
trustees may be held on the second Thursday of each month at such time as is
appointed from time to time by the board of trustees. (Ord. 09-16, 5-7-2009)
   F.   The village clerk shall make a tape recording (audiotape) as a verbatim
record of any meeting of the board of trustees.
      1.   For any tape recording of an open session of a meeting of the board
of trustees, the clerk may utilize said recording to assist in the preparation
of minutes of said meeting; and, upon subsequent approval by the trustees of
the minutes so prepared, the clerk should then erase the tape and reuse the
tape to record any future meeting(s), to assist in the preparation of minutes
of said future meeting(s).
      2.   In accordance with the requirements of the open meetings act, 5
Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2.06, the village clerk shall make a tape
recording (audiotape) as a verbatim record of any closed session of the board
of trustees. The clerk shall preserve the tape recording of any such closed
session of the board of trustees, in accordance with the following provisions:
         a.   The verbatim record may be destroyed, without notification to or
the approval of a records commission or the state archivist under the local
records act or the state records act, no less than eighteen (18) months after
the completion of the meeting recorded, but only after:
            (1)   The corporate authorities have approved minutes of the closed
meeting that meet the requirements set out in written minutes for section 2.06
(a) of the Illinois open meetings act, which otherwise requires that the
minutes record the date, time and place of the meeting, the presence and
absence of all members of the board, a summary of any discussion on all matters
proposed, deliberated, or decided, and a record of any votes taken.
            (2)   The corporate authorities approve the destruction of a
particular recording. (Ord. 09-20, 6-18-2009)
1-2-7: ATTENDANCE; QUORUM:
   A.   Quorum: A majority of the members of the board of trustees, or any
three (3) trustees and the village president, shall constitute a quorum to
conduct business at any meeting of the board of trustees.
   B.   Attendance: Any member of the board of trustees may attend any open
meeting of the board of trustees or any committee thereof, by conference
telephone call or other electronic means, provided that such attendance is in
compliance with the following provisions and any applicable laws of the state
of Illinois:
      1.   A quorum of the corporate authorities, or the committee in question,
is otherwise physically present at the place of the meeting; and there is no
motion made and seconded, and approved by majority vote of the members present,
objecting to such attendance by telephonic or other electronic means as set
forth in subsection B5 of this section.
      2.   The member not physically present shall notify the clerk of his/her
inability to be physically present not less than forty eight (48) hours before
the start time of the meeting, unless it is impractical to do so, so that
necessary communications equipment can be arranged. The inability of the
village to make the necessary technical arrangements for telephonic or other
electronic attendance at the meeting will result in denial of a request for
such attendance.
      3.   The member requesting to attend the meeting by telephonic or other
electronic means must assert one of the following three (3) reasons why he/she
is unable to physically attend the meeting:
         a.   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability; or
         b.   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or
because of village business; or
         c.   The member cannot attend because of a family related or other
bona fide emergency.
      4.   The clerk shall promptly after receiving the request for attendance
by telephonic or other electronic means for a meeting inform the village
administrator of the request.
      5.   At the meeting in question, after a roll call has established that a
quorum is physically present, the presiding officer shall report to the quorum
present the identity of each person making the request to attend by telephonic
or other electronic means, and the reason for the request, and the member
making the request shall be deemed authorized to attend the meeting by
telephonic or other electronic means unless a motion is duly made and seconded,
objecting to the member's attendance by telephonic or other electronic means,
and by vote of a majority of those present the motion then passes. Provided, if
the member requesting to attend via telephonic or other electronic means is the
village president or is the chair of the committee in question, then the
members physically present shall first by motion and vote designate a member
physically present to act as temporary chair of the meeting for purposes of
maintaining order in the meeting room.
      6.   The member attending the meeting by telephonic or other electronic
means and the other members of the board of trustees must be able to
communicate among themselves effectively, and members of the audience must be
able to hear all communications at the meeting site. Before allowing attendance
at any meeting by telephonic or other electronic means, the village shall
provide equipment adequate for such attendance at a meeting in accordance with
these rules and state law.
      7.   Any member attending by telephonic or other electronic means shall
be considered an off site attendee, and shall be counted as present by
telephonic or other electronic means for the meeting. The meeting minutes shall
reflect and state specifically whether each member is physically present or
present by telephonic or other electronic means.
      8.   Any member permitted to attend a meeting by telephonic or other
electronic means shall be allowed to express his or her comments during the
meeting, and to participate in the meeting the same as those members physically
present, subject to all general meeting guidelines and procedures. The member
attending by telephonic or other electronic means shall be heard, considered,
and counted as to any vote taken. The name of any member attending by
telephonic or other electronic means shall be called during any vote taken, and
his or her vote counted and recorded by the clerk and placed in the minutes for
the corresponding meeting. A member attending a meeting by telephonic or other
electronic means may leave a meeting and return as in the case of any member,
provided the member attending by telephonic or other electronic means shall
announce his or her leaving and returning. In the event that technical
difficulties or repeated interruptions of the telephonic or other electronic
connection occur during the meeting, then, upon motion and approval by vote of
a majority of the members physically present, the board of trustees may
terminate the attempted telephonic or other electronic attendance and proceed
with the business of the agenda without a delay, or taking a recess, of the
meeting to correct the technical problem, repair the equipment, or otherwise
overcome the cause of the difficulties or interruptions. (Ord. 15-19, 6-4-2015)
1-2-8: PRESIDING OFFICER:
The village president shall be the presiding officer of all regular and special
meetings of the Board of Trustees and at all times when the Board of Trustees
meets as a Committee of the Whole. In the absence of the Village President, the
Trustees present shall select one (1) of their number to be President Pro Tem
to preside at that meeting. (1985 Code)
1-2-9: DECIDING VOTE:
The Village President shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution, or motion
except:
   A.   Where the vote of the Trustees has resulted in a tie.
   B.   Where one-half (1/2) of the Trustees elected have voted in favor of an
ordinance, resolution, or motion even though there is no tie vote.
   C.   Where a vote greater than a majority of the Corporate Authorities is
required by the Illinois Compiled Statutes or by local ordinance to adopt an
ordinance, resolution, or motion.
   D.   The Village President shall vote in each instance specified as
subsections A, B and C of this section.
   E.   Nothing in this section shall deprive an acting Village President or
Village President Pro Tem from voting in his capacity as Trustee, but he shall
not be entitled to another vote in his capacity as acting Village President or
Village President Pro Tem. (1985 Code)
1-2-10: ORDINANCES; APPROVAL; VETO:
All resolutions and motions: a) which create any liability against the Village,
or b) which provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its money, or c) to
sell any Village property, and all ordinances passed by the Board of Trustees
shall be deposited with the Village Clerk. If the Village President approves of
them, he shall sign them. Those of which he disapproves he shall return to the
Board of Trustees, with his written objections, at the next regular meeting of
the Board of Trustees occurring not less than five (5) days after their
passage. The Village President may disapprove of any one (1) or more sums
appropriated in any ordinance, resolution, or motion making an appropriation,
and, if so, the remainder shall not be affected. However, the Village President
may disapprove entirely of an ordinance, resolution, or motion making an
appropriation. If the Village President fails to return any ordinance or any
specified resolution or motion with his written objections, within the
designated time, it shall become effective despite the absence of his
signature. (1985 Code)
1-2-11: RECONSIDERATION; PASSING OVER VETO:
Every resolution and motion specified in the preceding section, and every
ordinance, which is returned to the Board of Trustees by the Village President
shall be reconsidered by the Board of Trustees. If, after such consideration,
two- thirds (2/3) of all the Trustees then holding office on the Board of
Trustees shall agree at such regular meeting to pass an ordinance, resolution,
or motion, notwithstanding the Village President's refusal to approve it, then
it shall be effective. The vote on the question of passage over the Village
President's veto shall be by ayes and nays, and shall be recorded in the
minutes. (1985 Code)
1-2-12: RESCINDED ACTION:
No vote or action of the Board of Trustees shall be rescinded at any special
meeting unless there be present at such special meeting as many members of the
Board of Trustees as were present at the meeting when such vote or action was
taken. (1985 Code)
1-2-13: STANDING COMMITTEES:
There shall be such standing committees of the Board of Trustees as are
established from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees.
   A.   The Village President shall appoint members of the Board to serve on
such committees at the first regular meeting of the Board of Trustees held
after each regular Village election and subsequent qualification of the
President and members of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Each of said committees shall consist of a minimum of three (3)
members, each appointed for a term of two (2) years. In making the appointment
of members to such committees, the Village President shall designate one (1)
member to act as Chair of each committee.
   C.   A quorum shall consist of any two (2) members of a committee. (Ord. 16-
29, 12-1-2016; amd. Ord. 19-06, 3-21-2019)
1-2-14: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The order of business at every meeting of the Village President and Board of
Trustees shall be that order of business established from time to time by the
President and Board of Trustees. (Ord. 86-8, 7-15-1986)
1-2-15: RULES OF ORDER:
   A.   On all points of order not specifically provided for by law, "Robert's
Rules Of Order" are hereby adopted as the law or ordinance to govern
deliberation of the village president and board of trustees.
   B.   When a motion is made and seconded, it shall be stated before debate by
the village clerk. A motion may not be withdrawn by the mover without consent
of the member seconding it.
   C.   Trustees desiring to speak shall address the chair, and, upon
recognition by the presiding officer, shall confine themselves to the question
under debate and shall avoid personalities.
   D.   Any member of the public permitted to address the board of trustees
shall be recognized by the chair, shall state his name and address in an
audible tone for the record, and shall limit his remarks to the question under
discussion. All remarks and questions shall be addressed to the presiding
officer and not to any individual member thereof.
   E.   The presiding officer shall preserve decorum and decide all questions
of order, subject to appeal to the board.
   F.   Every member present when a question is put shall vote either "aye" or
"nay" unless the board of trustees shall, for special reason, excuse him from
voting. Request to be excused from voting must be made before the votes are
called for; otherwise vote shall count with the majority voting. (1985 Code)
   G.   Subject to the provisions of section 8-701 of the code of civil
procedure, any person may record, by tape, film or other means, the proceedings
at any meeting required to be open by this act. The board of trustees may from
time to time prescribe reasonable rules to govern the right to make such
recordings. Provided, no person may record the proceedings of any closed or
executive session of any meeting, by tape, film, or otherwise, except that the
village clerk shall comply with the requirements of the Illinois open meetings
act as to recording such proceedings. (Ord. 07-49, 10-18-2007)
   H.   Any provision of these rules may be temporarily suspended at any
meeting of the board of trustees, by a majority vote of all members elected.
The vote on any suspension shall be taken by ayes and nays and entered upon the
record.
   I.   These rules may be amended or new rules adopted by a majority vote of
all members of the board of trustees. Any such alterations or amendments shall
be submitted in writing at the preceding regular meeting and shall be placed on
the calendar under order of new business. This requirement shall be waived only
by unanimous consent, with a recorded vote of all members. (1985 Code; amd.
Ord. 07-49, 10-18-2007)
1-2-16: DISTURBING MEETINGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interrupt, obstruct, interfere with or
disturb any meeting of the village president and board of trustees. Any person
violating any provision of this section shall be subject to a fine or penalty
of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) and not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE III
VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-3-1: Appointment And Term
1-3-2: Bond
1-3-3: Compensation
1-3-4: Duties
1-3-5: Compliance With Freedom Of Information Act
1-3-6: Filing Of Ordinances
1-3-7: Vacancy
1-3-1: APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
The village clerk shall be appointed by the village president, with the
concurrence of the village board of trustees. The village president shall issue
to the appointee a certificate of appointment under the corporate seal. (Ord.
00-15, 6-15-2000, eff. 5-1-2001)
1-3-2: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the village clerk shall execute
a bond in such amount as is provided by the Illinois Compiled Statutes,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties, with sureties to be
approved by the board of trustees. (1985 Code)
1-3-3: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the village clerk shall be determined from time to time by
the village board, in accord with the Illinois municipal code, sections 5/3.1-
50-5 and 5/3.1-50-10. (Ord. 00-15, 6-15-2000, eff. 5-1-2001)
1-3-4: DUTIES:
   A.   The village clerk shall keep the corporate seal, to be provided by the
corporate authorities, and all papers belonging to the village, the custody and
control of which are not given to other officers. (1985 Code)
   B.   The village clerk shall attend all meetings of the corporate
authorities, and keep a full record of its proceedings, and preserve a verbatim
record of any such proceedings, as specified in subsection 1-2-6F of this
chapter, and otherwise in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois open
meetings act in effect from time to time. (Ord. 09-20, 6-18-2009)
   C.   The village clerk shall make publication of all ordinances,
resolutions, and notices as required by law.
   D.   The village clerk shall have custody and control of all municipal
documents, books and papers which the corporate authorities may designate, and
shall keep and maintain a proper index to such documents, books and papers.
   E.   The village clerk shall prepare an annual estimate of expenses, as
nearly as may be, of the money necessary to defray the expenses of the village
during the current fiscal year, to be submitted on or before May 15 of each
year, for use in the preparation of the annual appropriation ordinance. The
clerk is authorized to require all officers to submit statements of the
conditions and expenses of the respective offices or departments, with any
proposed municipal improvements, and the probable expense thereof, all
unperformed contracts, and the amount of all unexpended appropriations of the
preceding year.
   F.   The village clerk shall, upon receipt from the village treasurer of the
annual account of all monies received and expenditures incurred during the
preceding fiscal year, publish the account at least once, in one or more
newspapers having a general circulation within the village. The village clerk
shall execute and deliver to the village treasurer an affidavit stating that
the copy of the annual account is a true and correct copy of such account filed
with the village clerk, that it was published as required by law, the date of
such filing and publication, and the newspaper in which it was published.
   G.   The village clerk shall have the power to administer oaths and
affirmations upon all lawful occasions.
   H.   The village clerk shall issue notices to the members of the board of
trustees when directed by that body, and to members of the different committees
of the board of trustees and to all persons whose attendance may be required by
either, when directed by the village president or chairman of said committee.
   I.   The village clerk shall, without delay, deliver to the officers of the
village and to all committees of the board of trustees all papers, documents,
communications and other matters referred to them respectively, and shall
promptly deliver to the village president, to be returned in due course of
business, all ordinances, resolutions and other matters requiring the approval
or action of the village president.
   J.   The village clerk shall keep a list of all committees of the board of
trustees and of the business from time to time referred to them respectively
and a memorandum of all reports made by said committees.
   K.   The village clerk shall be responsible for the receipt of documents
requiring legal service upon the village, applications for village licenses and
permits, except as otherwise provided by ordinance, and any and all
corresponding fees and bonds as required by law.
   L.   The village clerk shall keep accounts of all money received by him on
behalf of the village and shall turn over all such money to the village
treasurer promptly upon receipt of the same, and with such money he shall give
a statement as to the source thereof.
   M.   The village clerk shall have such additional powers and duties as
provided by the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   N.   The village clerk shall perform such other duties as may from time to
time be required of him by the village board. (1985 Code)
1-3-5: COMPLIANCE WITH FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT:
   A.   The village clerk shall compile and display at the office of said clerk
during all regular business hours, certain information regarding the purpose,
current operating budget, village offices and village employees of the
municipal corporation as required by the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
   B.   Disclosure of information shall be subject to the requirements of the
Illinois Freedom of Information Act and the following rules and regulations:
      1.   Requests for information in the village of Hampshire shall be made
in writing to the village clerk, at the Village Hall, 234 South State Street,
Hampshire, Illinois 60140 (phone: 312-683-2181), between the hours of nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. through three o'clock (3:00) P.M. Monday through Friday.
      2.   Requests for information shall be made on an application form
provided by the clerk. All requests shall be decided upon within the times set
forth in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
      3.   Upon any denial of a request for information by any village official
other than the village president, the person making the request may appeal said
denial to the village president by filing a written notice of appeal with the
village clerk, on a form available from the village clerk, within fourteen (14)
days of the date of the letter of denial.
      4.   Any person denied access to inspect or copy any public record by the
head of a public body may file suit in the Circuit Court of Kane County,
Geneva, Illinois, for injunctive or declaratory relief.
      5.   A fee of ten cents ($0.10) per page shall be charged for each copy
of any document requested, except that a fee of one dollar ($1.00) shall be
charged for each copy of the village zoning map or village comprehensive plan
map. (1985 Code)
1-3-6: FILING OF ORDINANCES:
The original of all ordinances passed by the village president and board of
trustees shall be filed in the village clerk's office and he shall be the
custodian of same. (1985 Code)
1-3-7: VACANCY:
Whenever a vacancy shall occur in the office of the village clerk, the vacancy
shall be filled in accord with the requirements of the Illinois Municipal Code,
section 5/3.1-30-5. If circumstances warrant it, a temporary successor may be
appointed in accord with the requirements of the Illinois Municipal Code,
section 5/3.1-30-5. (Ord. 00-15, 6-15-2000, eff. 5-1-2001)
ARTICLE IV
VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-4-1: Appointment And Term
1-4-2: Bond And Oath
1-4-3: Compensation
1-4-4: Duties
1-4-5: Ex Officio Collector
1-4-6: Removal From Office
1-4-7: Finance Director
1-4-1: APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
The Village President, by and with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees, shall appoint a Village Treasurer to serve as needed on an annual
basis and he shall serve until his successor is appointed and qualified. (1985
Code)
1-4-2: BOND AND OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the Village Treasurer shall take
and subscribe the oath of office as provided by the Illinois Compiled Statutes
and shall execute his bond to the Village of Hampshire in the sum required by
the Board of Trustees, with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees,
but such amount shall not be less than that required by the Illinois Compiled
Statutes. This bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of his
duties by the Village Treasurer, and shall be conditioned to indemnify the
Village for any loss by reason of any neglect of duty or any act of the
Treasurer. (1985 Code)
1-4-3: COMPENSATION:
The Village Treasurer shall receive such compensation, as determined on an
annual fiscal year basis, by the Village President and Board of Trustees. (1985
Code)
1-4-4: DUTIES:
   A.   The Village Treasurer shall receive all money belonging to the Village,
and shall keep his books and accounts in the manner prescribed by ordinance.
These books and accounts shall always be subject to the inspection of any
member of the Corporate Authorities.
   B.   The Village Treasurer shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation, and the debits and credits belonging thereto, and shall keep
separate the transactions and affairs relating to the various funds,
departments, offices or divisions of the Village as they may exist from time to
time.
   C.   The Village Treasurer shall give every person paying money into the
treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment, and upon what
account paid. He shall file copies of these receipts with the Village Clerk,
with his monthly reports. If he has in possession money properly appropriated
to the payment of any warrant lawfully drawn upon him, he shall pay the money
specified in this warrant to the person designated by the warrant.
   D.   The Village Treasurer shall, at the end of every month, render an
account under oath to the Village President and Board of Trustees, or to such
officer as may be designated by ordinance, showing the state of the treasury at
the date of the account, and the balance of money in the treasury.
   E.   The Village Treasurer shall report to the Village President and Board
of Trustees, as often as they require, a full and detailed account of all
receipts and expenditures of the Village, as shown by his books, up to the time
of the report, and shall make such other reports as are required from time to
time by the Board of Trustees.
   F.   The Village Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the Village in
his custody separate and distinct from his own money, and he shall not use,
either directly or indirectly, the Village's money or warrants in his custody
for his own use and benefit, or that of any other person.
   G.   The Village Treasurer shall, prior to September 1 of each year,
annually prepare and file with the Village Clerk, an account of all monies
received and expenditures incurred during the preceding fiscal year. Prior to
September 1 of each year, the Village Treasurer shall file with the County
Collector a copy of the annual account.
   H.   The Village Treasurer shall keep books wherein shall be recorded and
safely kept a record of all the transactions of his office. In keeping the
books and records herein required, it shall be his duty to do the work in such
manner so that said books and records will at all times contain and disclose in
detail the account, transactions, business and affairs of his office.
   I.   The Village Treasurer shall safely keep in his custody the books,
records and property under his control pertaining to his office, and shall not
permit same to leave his custody and control unless so ordered by a court of
competent jurisdiction or the Board of Trustees; and upon the termination of
his term of office, whether by limitation, removal or otherwise, he shall
promptly turn over the same to his successor or to such person as the Board of
Trustees may direct.
   J.   The Village Treasurer shall perform all the duties required of him by
the Illinois Compiled Statutes and such other and additional duties as may be
from time to time provided by Village ordinance. (1985 Code)
1-4-5: EX OFFICIO COLLECTOR:
The Village Treasurer shall be the Ex Officio Collector and shall perform the
duties of that office as provided by the Illinois Compiled Statutes and Village
ordinances. (1985 Code)
1-4-6: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The Village Treasurer may be removed from office for cause, at any time, by a
majority vote of the Corporate Authorities then holding office. Corporate
Authorities, as herein expressed, include the Village President and Board of
Trustees. (1985 Code)
1-4-7: FINANCE DIRECTOR:
   A.   In lieu of appointing a Village Treasurer, the Corporate Authorities
may employ a Finance Director, provided:
      1.   The Finance Director shall be appointed by the Village President to
perform, and shall perform, the duties and responsibilities of Village
Treasurer set forth in the Illinois Municipal Code and in this article.
      2.   The Finance Director shall execute a bond to the Village of
Hampshire consistent with the requirements of section
1-4-2 of this article. (Ord. 17-18, 5-18-2017)
ARTICLE V
VILLAGE DEPUTY CLERK
SECTION:
1-5-1: Appointment And Term
1-5-2: Oath And Bond
1-5-3: Compensation
1-5-4: Duties
1-5-1: APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
The Village Clerk may appoint a Village Deputy Clerk to serve as needed on an
annual basis and he shall serve until his successor is appointed and qualified.
(1985 Code)
1-5-2: OATH AND BOND:
The Village Deputy Clerk shall, before entering upon the duties of his office,
take and subscribe the oath of office as provided by the Illinois Compiled
Statutes, and shall execute a bond to the Village of Hampshire as required by
the Village President and Board of Trustees. (1985 Code)
1-5-3: COMPENSATION:
The Village Deputy Clerk shall receive such compensation as determined on an
annual fiscal year basis by the Village President and Board of Trustees. (1985
Code)
1-5-4: DUTIES:
   A.   The Village Deputy Clerk shall have the power and duty to execute all
documents required by any law to be executed by the Village Clerk and affix the
Seal of the Clerk thereto whenever required. In signing any document, the
Village Deputy Clerk shall sign the name of the Village Clerk followed with the
word "By" and the Village Deputy Clerk's own name and the words "Deputy Clerk".
   B.   The powers and duties herein described shall be exercised by the
Village Deputy Clerk only in the absence of the Village Clerk from the place
where the Village Clerk's office is maintained, and only when either written
direction has been given by the Village Clerk to such Deputy to exercise such
power, or the corporate authorities have determined by resolution that the
Village Clerk is temporarily or permanently incapacitated to perform such
functions.
   C.   When duly authorized as herein provided, the signature affixed by the
Village Deputy Clerk in the manner herein provided on any document, including,
but not limited to contracts, bonds, or other obligations of the Village, shall
have the effect as if the documents so executed had been signed by the Village
Clerk in person. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE VI
VILLAGE ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-6-1: Appointment
1-6-2: Duties
1-6-3: Compensation
1-6-4: Removal From Office
1-6-5: Reimbursement Of Fees
1-6-1: APPOINTMENT:
The Village President and Board of Trustees may from time to time retain a
Village Attorney to represent or advise the Village on legal matters, and they
may likewise retain special counsel to advise or represent the Village on
special matters or to assist the Village Attorney. The Village Attorney shall
be appointed by the Village President, by and with the advice and consent of
the Board of Trustees, and he shall serve until his successor is appointed and
qualified. (1985 Code)
1-6-2: DUTIES:
   A.   The Village Attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all suits or
actions at law or equity to which the Village may be party, or in which it may
be interested, or which may be brought against or by, any officer of the
Village on behalf of the Village or in the capacity of such person as an
officer of the Village.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to see the full
enforcement of all judgments or decrees entered in favor of the Village, and of
all similar interlocutory orders.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to prepare such ordinances
as the Village President and Board of Trustees may from time to time direct,
and present them to the Village President and Board of Trustees and be prepared
to answer any legal questions that may arise in and about the passage of the
same and any legal effect and interpretation of said ordinances.
   D.   All bonds and contracts and other legal papers wherein the Village is a
party or interested therein, shall be referred to the Village Attorney for
approval, before being approved by the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   E.   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Village and
shall render legal advice on all legal questions affecting the Village,
whenever requested to do so by any Village official with the authorization of
the Village President. Upon request by the Village President or Board of
Trustees, the Village Attorney shall reduce such opinion to writing. (1985
Code)
1-6-3: COMPENSATION:
The Village Attorney shall receive such compensation as is determined by the
Village President and Board of Trustees. (1985 Code)
1-6-4: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The Village Attorney may be removed from office for cause, at any time, by a
majority vote of the corporate authorities then holding office. The corporate
authorities as herein expressed includes the Village President and Board of
Trustees. (1985 Code)
1-6-5: REIMBURSEMENT OF FEES:
All fees incurred by the Village for legal services rendered for zoning,
subdivision, annexation, other developments, or other proposals relating to
land use in the Village or within its one and one-half (11/2) mile planning
jurisdiction shall be billed to and paid by the person or persons making the
respective petition, proposal, or inquiry as to which the services are
rendered. (Ord. 91-1, 3-7-1991)
ARTICLE VII
VILLAGE ENGINEER
SECTION:
1-7-1: Appointment
1-7-2: Duties
1-7-3: Compensation
1-7-4: Removal From Office
1-7-5: Reimbursement Of Fees
1-7-1: APPOINTMENT:
The Village President, by and with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees, may appoint a licensed Village Engineer to provide engineering
services required by the Village and he shall serve until his successor is
appointed and qualified. (1985 Code)
1-7-2: DUTIES:
   A.   The Village Engineer shall establish proper construction standards for
street improvements, water and sewer services, and appurtenances thereto.
   B.   The Village Engineer shall conduct such studies and surveys as may be
necessary for establishing lines and grades of sidewalks, curbs, streets,
alleys, sewers, water mains and bench marks upon public ways within the
Village.
   C.   The Village Engineer shall act as advisor to the Village and all
official agencies of the Village government and to work with private developers
within the Village insofar as their planning includes traffic or parking
facilities.
   D.   The Village Engineer shall coordinate planning and construction by
other public agencies relating to work performed within the Village of
Hampshire in connection with street, water, or sewer improvements.
   E.   The Village Engineer shall let, receive, tabulate and recommend awards
of construction contracts.
   F.   The Village Engineer shall coordinate the inspection of Municipal
improvements and recommend such maintenance and additions to the system as
necessary.
   G.   The Village Engineer shall make or cause to be made all necessary
plans, maps, plats, profiles, specifications and estimates for any public work
or improvement which may be proposed or ordered by the Village President and
Board of Trustees, or the Board of Local Improvements, and to carefully
preserve the same together with such field notes, writings and records
pertaining thereto, all indexed for ready reference.
   H.   The Village Engineer shall prepare records showing location of
underground Village-owned utilities, rights of way, public dedications,
vacations, and such other Municipal records as the Village Board may direct.
   I.   The Village Engineer shall perform or cause to be performed additional
duties or work as the Village President and Board of Trustees may direct.
   J.   The Village Engineer shall be prohibited, however, from preparing plans
and specifications of any kind for use within the Village by private developers
seeking approval of those plans from the Village Engineer. (1985 Code)
1-7-3: COMPENSATION:
The Village Engineer shall receive such compensation as is determined by the
Village President and Board of Trustees. (1985 Code)
1-7-4: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The Village Engineer may be removed from office for cause, at any time, by a
majority vote of the corporate authorities then holding office. "Corporate
authorities", as herein expressed, includes the Village President and Board of
Trustees. (1985 Code)
1-7-5: REIMBURSEMENT OF FEES:
All fees incurred by the Village for engineering services for plan review,
inspection, or other matters related to zoning, subdivision, annexation, or
other development shall be billed to and paid by the person or persons who make
the petition, proposal, or other inquiry as to which the services are rendered.
(Ord. 91-1, 3-7-1991)
ARTICLE VIII
VILLAGE EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Building Inspector
1-8-2: Superintendent Of Public Works
1-8-3: Personnel Rules
1-8-4: Social Media Policy
1-8-1: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Appointment And Term: There is hereby established the position of
building inspector. The building inspector shall be employed on an annual
fiscal year basis by the village of Hampshire.
   B.   Compensation: The building inspector shall receive such compensation as
may be determined annually by the village president and board of trustees.
   C.   Duties:
      1.   The building inspector shall have the general charge and supervision
of the construction, alteration, repair, erection, remodeling, removal,
wrecking, equipment, use, occupancy and maintenance of all buildings, walls,
structures or portions or sections thereof, and accessories thereto wheresoever
located within the village, and to enforce all village ordinances relating
thereto.
      2.   The building inspector shall examine applications for building
permits and all plans and specifications in connection therewith, and he shall
have charge and supervision of building inspections on all buildings,
structures or portions thereof in connection with work that has been authorized
by a permit from the building department, including, but not limited to,
boiler, elevator, lighting, electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilating,
refrigerating, and air conditioning equipment.
      3.   The building inspector shall issue all necessary notices or orders
to correct or remove illegal or unsafe buildings or structures or conditions
therein.
      4.   The building inspector shall require installation of safeguards
which will prevent injury to person or property during construction.
      5.   The building inspector shall require adequate exit facilities in
existing buildings and structures.
      6.   The building inspector shall ensure compliance with all of the
building code requirements for the safety, health and general welfare of the
public.
      7.   The building inspector shall issue notices for violations through
the following procedures regarding work without a permit:
         a.   If work is done or in progress without a permit, the building
inspector shall issue a violation notice. This violation notice shall be in
writing to the owner and contractor.
         b.   Any violation notice shall contain the name of the owner of the
property and his address, the address of the building in violation, the name of
any contractor and his address, and a date for submission of plans and
applications for permits. Such date shall be no sooner than twenty four (24)
hours from violation notice issuance, and no more than forty eight (48) hours
from violation notice issuance.
         c.   When an owner or contractor in violation makes application for
permit, he shall agree to conform to all codes of the village of Hampshire, and
to follow the plan review and building permit application procedures.
         d.   If the date for submission of plans and application for permit is
not met, the planning and zoning committee of the village board of trustees
shall hold a hearing to permit the violator an opportunity to show cause why a
complaint should not be filed. The building inspector, the village attorney and
the violator or his representative shall be present.
         e.   If cause is not demonstrated, the village attorney shall prepare
and file a complaint.
      8.   The building inspector shall follow the following procedures with
respect to failure to meet the compliance date set in any other violation
notice which has been issued:
         a.   Reinspect property in violation of compliance date.
         b.   Contact owner or contractor in violation when there has been
partial or no compliance; such contract shall be verbal and also in writing
within forty eight (48) hours of the reinspection.
         c.   Recommend to the owner or contractor a course of action based on
reinspection and facts supplied by the owner or contractor, establish a further
reasonable compliance date and provide for reinspection on said compliance
date.
         d.   Repeat this reinspection process as long as satisfactory progress
and good faith are demonstrated by the violator.
         e.   If compliance cannot be secured, the planning and zoning
committee of the village board of trustees shall hold a hearing to permit the
violator an opportunity to show cause why a complaint should not be filed. The
building inspector, the village attorney and the violator or his representative
shall be present.
         f.   If cause is not demonstrated, the village attorney shall prepare
and file a complaint.
      9.   The building inspector shall, by the second Monday following the end
of each month, furnish the village president and board of trustees with a full
and complete report of all matters pertaining to the building department during
the preceding month. Among such other matters as shall be relative thereto,
there shall be included in said report the number of permits issued, stages of
construction, alteration, remodeling or demolition, revocations, stop orders
and notice orders issued, and the total fees charged.
      10.   The building inspector shall and he is hereby empowered to enforce
all village ordinances relating to the installation, care and standards of
plumbing.
         a.   He shall make all necessary inspections and tests which may be
needed in the performance of his duties.
         b.   He shall have the power to enter any building or premises on or
in which plumbing fixtures or pipes are being installed, altered or repaired,
at all reasonable hours, to make inspections and ensure the enforcement of the
ordinances relating to plumbing.
         c.   He shall, at all times when making any such inspection or test,
be in compliance with the Illinois Plumbing Licensing Act.
         d.   In the event the building inspector is not in compliance with the
Illinois Plumbing Licensing Act, he shall authorize as his agent to make such
inspection or test one who is in compliance, subject to the approval of the
village president and board of trustees.
      11.   The building inspector shall have the right during reasonable hours
to enter any building in the discharge of his official duties, or for the
purpose of making an inspection or test of the electrical equipment therein;
and he shall have the duty and authority to enforce all the ordinance
provisions relating to electric signs, electrical wiring and electrically-
operated equipment. He shall have the power to cause the current in any wire or
conduit to be turned off whenever this is necessary in an emergency for the
protection of life or property. He shall make all inspections necessary to the
enforcement of the village ordinances; and no electric wiring shall be covered
until it has been inspected and approved.
      12.   The building inspector shall have the power to order all work
stopped on construction, alteration or repair of any building when the work is
being done in violation of any provision of any ordinance relating thereto, or
in violation of the zoning, electrical or plumbing ordinances. Work shall not
be resumed after the issuance of such an order except on the written permission
of the building inspector; provided, that if the stop order is an oral one, it
shall be followed by a written stop order within an hour. Such written stop
order may be served by any police officer. (1985 Code)
1-8-2: SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS:
   A.   Creation Of Department: There is hereby established as an
administrative department of the village, the department of public works.
   B.   Superintendent Of Public Works: There is hereby created the position of
superintendent of public works. The superintendent shall have charge of the
department of public works in the village. The superintendent shall be employed
by the village of Hampshire at such compensation as the board of trustees shall
from time to time determine.
   C.   Duties: The superintendent of public works shall be charged with the
following duties:
      1.   To operate and maintain the village water distribution system and
all intakes, reservoirs, mains, hydrants and equipment, fixtures and
appurtenances thereto and thereunto attached.
      2.   To operate and maintain the village sewage treatment system
including the sewage treatment plant, and all trunk lines, equipment, fixtures
and appurtenances thereto belonging to the village.
      3.   To have charge of and maintain all streets, curbs, alleys, public
ways and highways and all storm sewers, detention areas, and other storm water
facilities in the village and all walks, crosswalks, bridges, tunnels,
viaducts, public places and public grounds under the jurisdiction of the
village, keeping the same in good working order and condition, clean and free
of obstructions, and to promptly cause the repair or the alteration thereof
whenever the circumstances shall require.
      4.   To direct and supervise the manner of using streets, alleys, public
ways, highways and other public places of the village where sewer and/or water
improvements are being installed or repairs made, except when the supervision
of such is delegated by the village board of trustees to another officer or
employee; and the manner of laying down water, sewer and other pipes authorized
by law or village ordinance, and in the absence of a direction by the board of
trustees, or village engineer, to determine and approve the location of the
foregoing improvements or installations. During the progress of any such work,
the superintendent shall require that the location thereof be adequately
barricaded and protected so as to protect the public from damage or injury; and
the same shall not be removed without the approval of the superintendent.
      5.   To direct and supervise the removal of snow from the streets and
sidewalks of the village, and the maintenance of the streets, alleys and public
places of the village free and clean of objectionable weed or plant growth; and
to remove weeds, brush and rubbish from privately owned property when so
directed by the village president.
      6.   To operate and maintain adequate facilities for all mechanical
equipment and motor vehicle equipment assigned to the department of public
works; to have charge, control and custody of all such equipment, and daily
logs and maintenance schedules for same.
      7.   To have the supervision, direction and control of all employees
assigned to the department, including the maintenance foreman, and to perform
personnel reviews and evaluations as described in the village personnel policy.
      8.   To make or cause to be made and kept in his office a detailed map or
plat of all sanitary sewers, water mains, and storm sewers, laid or constructed
in the village, distinctly showing all junctions, house connections, equipment
and fixtures appurtenant thereto.
      9.   To maintain all public buildings in good repair.
      10.   To enforce, or cause to be enforced, all laws and ordinances
relating to all public works in the village.
   D.   Maintenance Foreman: There is hereby established the position of
maintenance foreman of public works. The maintenance foreman shall be employed
by the village of Hampshire as a working foreman at such compensation as the
board of trustees shall from time to time determine.
      1.   Duties: Under the supervision of the superintendent, the maintenance
foreman shall be responsible for the performance of the duties described in
subsections C3, C5 and C6 of this section, and any other duties prescribed from
time to time for the maintenance foreman by the superintendent or the board of
trustees. (Ord. 00-14, 6-1-2000)
1-8-3: PERSONNEL RULES:
   A.   Effect: The provisions of this section shall apply alike to all
officers and employees of the village regardless of the time of the creation of
the office or the time of the appointment of the officer or employee.
   B.   Terms Of Office: Every appointive officer or employee of the village
shall hold office for an indefinite term unless it is otherwise provided by
statute or ordinance. Employees shall be selected on the basis of demonstrated
ability, experience and training and shall serve so long as their services are
required and they adequately perform their duties.
   C.   Assignment Of Duties: The village president shall have the power to
assign to any appointive officer or employee any duty which is not assigned by
ordinance to any other specific officer; provided, that this provision shall
not be construed to empower the village president to assign such duties. The
president shall determine disputes or questions relating to the respective
powers or duties of officers appointed by the president and board of trustees.
   D.   Records: All records kept by any officer of the village shall be open
to inspection by the village president or any member of the board of trustees
at all reasonable times, whether or not such records are required to be kept by
statute or ordinance.
   E.   Monies Received: Each officer or employee of the village who received
money for the village shall, at least once each month, turn over all money
received by him in his official capacity to the village clerk or village
treasurer with a statement showing the source from which the same was received.
   F.   Oath: Every officer of the village shall, before entering upon his
duties, take the oath prescribed by statute.
   G.   Bond: Every officer and employee, if required by the board of trustees,
before entering the duties of his office or position, shall give a bond in such
amount as may be determined by the board, and with such sureties as it may
approve, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his office
or position. The village shall pay the cost of such bonds as it may require of
the employees or officers.
   H.   Salaries: All officers and employees of the village whose positions
have been classified shall receive such salaries as shall be provided in the
annual budget adopted by the board of trustees. All officers of the village
whose positions are ungraded shall receive such salaries as may be provided
from time to time by ordinance. No officer or employee receiving a salary from
the village shall be entitled to retain any portion of any fees collected by
him in the performance of his duties as a municipal officer or employee in the
absence of a specific ordinance provision to that effect. Any such fees which
are received shall be turned over to the treasurer.
   I.   Termination Of Office: Every officer of the village, upon the
termination of his term of office, for any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to
his successor all books and records which may be the property of the village
and if no successor has been appointed within one week after the termination of
the term of office, such property shall be delivered to the village president.
   J.   Impersonation: It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate,
without lawful authority, any village officer or employee. Any person violating
this subsection shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
   K.   Interfering With Officers: It shall be unlawful to interfere with or
hinder any officer or employee of the village while engaged in his duties. Any
person violating any of the provisions of this subsection shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense.
   L.   Sick Pay: All full-time personnel of the village shall be granted not
more than five (5) working days' paid sick leave during each year of service.
Said personnel may accumulate unused sick days for use in subsequent years,
provided that the maximum number of unused sick days which may be accumulated
by any employee shall be fifteen (15) days.
Any absenteeism due to illness in excess of the sick leave then due the officer
or employee, or loss of vacation time, if any is due said officer or employee
under the provisions of this chapter, for each day of absence. (1985 Code)
   M.   Bereavement: All full-time employees shall be allowed two (2) days of
bereavement with pay in the event of the death of any member of his or her
immediate family, or the immediate family of his or her spouse.
"Immediate family" means one's spouse, grandparents, father, mother, sister,
brother, and children and their spouses. (Ord. 86-7, 7-15-1986)
   N.   Vacation: All full-time personnel of the village shall be entitled to
the following number of days paid vacation per year:
      1.   Full-time personnel who have completed one full year of employment
from the first day of employment shall be allowed five (5) days of paid
vacation.
      2.   Full time personnel who have completed two (2) full years of
employment from the first day of employment shall be allowed ten (10) days of
paid vacation.
      3.   Full time personnel who have completed five (5) full years of
employment from the first day of employment shall be allowed fifteen (15) days
of paid vacation.
      4.   Vacations shall be scheduled in all departments according to
seniority.
      5.   Qualified replacements for vacationing personnel shall be designated
by department heads.
      6.   Full time personnel may not accumulate unused vacation days for use
in subsequent years, and any unused vacation days remaining at the end of each
year of employment from the first day of employment shall be forfeited;
provided, however, that the village board of trustees may, upon petition of any
full time officer or employee, made prior to the date such vacation days would
be forfeited, and for good cause shown, waive the effect of this provision and
extend the time in which said vacation days shall be used. (1985 Code)
   O.   Social Media Policy: All employees shall follow and adhere to the
policy for use of social media by village employees set forth in section
1-8-4 of this article. (Ord. 13-18, 11-7-2013)
1-8-4: SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: The village has an overriding interest and expectation in
determining what is stated on behalf of the village on its official village
social media sites. In that regard, the following "social media use policy" is
adopted for the purpose of establishing policies and regulations governing the
use by the village of Hampshire of various social media sites, including, but
not limited to, sites on "Facebook" and "Twitter", as a means of conveying and
disseminating information from and/or about the village to its residents and to
the public utilizing such methods of communication.
      1.   For purposes of this policy, the following definitions apply:
    COMMENT: Includes any statement, language, information, article, picture,
photograph, video or any other form of communicative content posted or
published on a social media site.
   SOCIAL MEDIA: Shall be understood to mean accessible, expandable, and
upgradable publishing technologies, through and on the world wide web, both as
currently exist and which may come into being hereafter, which may be utilized
to post or publish information, photographs, pictures, depictions, videos,
comment and other content. Examples of current social media include Facebook,
webblogs, Viddler, RSS, YouTube, Twitter, FourSquare, Vine and Flickr.
      2.   Social media may be utilized by the village for the following
purposes:
         a.   As channels for disseminating time sensitive information as
quickly as possible (example: emergency information);
         b.   As channels for marketing or promoting information, photographs,
pictures, depictions, videos or other content which serve to and may augment
the village's efforts to broadcast its messages to the widest possible
audience.
         c.   As channels for disseminating general information about the
village, its officials, departments, programs, meetings, and official actions.
   B.   General Policy:
      1.   The village may from time to time establish or maintain a website or
websites for village purposes, and the policy set forth in this article shall
apply to any and all such sites at all times. The village currently maintains
such a site at www.hampshireil.org, and this site shall be the official
internet presence for the village unless and until the corporate authorities
designate otherwise.
      2.   The village administrator, or his designee, shall be and is
responsible for the establishment and maintenance of any website, and any
social media site, by the village.
      3.   Each website and each social media site established or maintained by
the village shall be administered, and the content of each such site shall be
approved in advance, by the village administrator and/or his designee.
      4.   Each website and each social media site established or maintained by
the village shall include a clear statement that such site is maintained by the
village, and that any user thereof agrees to accept and comply with the
village's social media policy.
      5.   The content of any social media site established or maintained by
the village may be subject to state records retention laws and regulations, and
should be preserved in accordance therewith.
   C.   Comment:
      1.   Each social media site established by the village shall be
considered to be a limited public forum and, as such, the village reserves the
right in its sole discretion to restrict or remove any content thereon that is
deemed to be in violation of the village's social media policy, the policy of
any particular site used by the village, or any applicable law.
      2.   Any comment containing any of the following shall be and are
considered inappropriate forms of comment, and shall not be permitted to be
posted on any village social media site, and further, shall be and are subject
to immediate removal and/or restriction by the village administrator or his
designee:
         a.   Any comment that is not related to the original topic posted on
said site, including random or unintelligible comments;
         b.   Any profane, obscene, violent, or pornographic comment;
         c.   Any comment that promotes, fosters or perpetuates discrimination
on the basis of race, creed, color, age, religion, gender, marital status,
status with regard to public assistance, national origin, physical or mental
disability, sexual orientation, or any other protected status;
         d.   Any defamatory comment or personal attack;
         e.   Any threat to any person or entity;
         f.   Any comment in support of, or in opposition to, any political
campaign or ballot measure;
         g.   Solicitation of commerce, including, but not limited to,
advertising of any business, or any product for sale;
         h.   Any comment that suggests, promotes, advocates, depicts, or shows
any content in violation of any federal, state or local law;
         i.   Any comment that promotes, fosters, or encourages any illegal
activity;
         j.   Any information that may tend to compromise the safety or
security of the public or any public utility, system, or program; or
         k.   Any comment that violates a legal ownership interest, such as a
copyright or trademark of any person or entity;
         l.   Any comment that contains any external link to another site or
other sites for the purpose of spam, viruses, link baits, click throughs, or
other such practices.
      3.   The village reserves the right to report any violation of applicable
laws to any law enforcement agency or to any other authority that may have
applicable jurisdiction of the matter.
      4.   Any comment or any other content posted or published by a member of
the public on any village social media site shall be considered to be the
statement or opinion of the commenter or poster only, and posting or
publication of any such comment shall not and does not imply endorsement of, or
agreement by, the village with such statement or opinion, nor shall such
comments or other content be deemed to state or reflect the statement, opinion
or policy of the village, its officers, trustees, employees, agents, or
appointees.
      5.   The village reserves the right at any time and without any prior
notice to deny access to any social media site established or maintained by the
village for any person or entity that violates the village's social media
policy.
      6.   Any and all employees of the village who utilize any social media
site established or maintained by the village shall be and are required to
conduct themselves at all times in accordance with the following standards:
         a.   No employee shall use any such social media site for any purpose
related to a campaign for public office, or to influence or affect, or to
attempt to influence or affect, the results of any election or nomination.
         b.   No employee shall post, publish, or share personal information,
photographs, videos or other content about himself or herself, or about any
other village employee, elected official, appointed board or commission member,
or candidate for any such position.
         c.   No employee shall post any information, photograph, video or
other content which is confidential or privileged.
         d.   No employee shall post any information, photographs, videos or
other content that is related to any commercial product, business, venture,
partnership or other entity in which such employee holds an interest for the
purpose of selling or promoting such interest.
         e.   No employee shall post, publish, or share any information,
photograph, picture, depiction, video or other content that is prohibited from
disclosure under the Illinois juvenile court act, 705 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-1 et seq., or under any other law or regulation.
         f.   No employee shall post, publish or share any information,
photograph, picture, depiction, video, or other content that is or would be
exempt from disclosure under the Illinois freedom of information act, 5
Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/1 et seq., without the express approval of the
village administrator.
         g.   Any employee responding to any comment on any such site shall
include his/her name and title as part of such response.
      7.   All comments posted to any social media site established and/or
maintained by the village shall be subject to the rules and regulations
governing use of the site, and the village reserves the right to take
appropriate and reasonable responsive action in regard to any such comments
that may be in violation of such rules and regulations. (Ord. 13-18, 11-7-2013)
ARTICLE IX
EMERGENCY SERVICE AND DISASTER AGENCY
SECTION:
1-9-1: Establishment
1-9-2: Coordinator
1-9-3: Functions
1-9-4: Service As Mobile Support Team
1-9-5: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
1-9-6: Emergency Action
1-9-7: Compensation
1-9-8: Reimbursement By State
1-9-9: Purchases And Expenditures
1-9-10: Oath
1-9-11: Appropriation; Levy Of Taxes
1-9-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby created the Village of Hampshire Emergency Service and Disaster
Agency to prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury or damage resulting
from disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or
from natural or manmade disaster, in accordance with "The Illinois Emergency
Service and Disaster Act of 1975". This Emergency Service and Disaster Agency
shall consist of the coordinator and such additional members as may be selected
by the coordinator. (Ord. 85-18, 5-16-1985)
1-9-2: COORDINATOR:
The coordinator of the Village Emergency Service and Disaster Agency shall be
appointed by the Village President and shall serve until removed by same. The
coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training, and operation of the Emergency Service and Disaster
Agency, subject to the direction and control of the Village President as
provided by statute.
In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve as the
coordinator, the Village President or any person designated by him shall be and
act as coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in this Article.
(Ord. 85-18, 5-16-1985)
1-9-3: FUNCTIONS:
The Village Emergency Service and Disaster Agency shall perform such Emergency
Service and Disaster Agency functions within the Village as shall be prescribed
in and by the State Emergency Service and Disaster Agency plan and program
prepared by the Governor, and such orders, rules and regulations as may be
promulgated by the Governor, and in addition shall perform such duties outside
the corporate limits as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement
with any other political subdivision, municipality, or quasi-municipality
entered into as provided in the "The State Emergency Service and Disaster
Agency Act of 1975". (Ord. 85-18, 5-16-1985)
1-9-4: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
All or any members of the Village Emergency Service and Disaster Agency
organization may be designated as members of a mobile support team created by
the director of the State Emergency Service and Disaster Agency as provided by
law. The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
coordinator of the Village Emergency Service and Disaster Agency organization.
Any member of a mobile support team who is a Village employee or officer while
serving on call to duty by the Governor, or the State Director, shall receive
the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights, and immunities incident
to such employment or office. Any such member who is not a paid officer or
employee of the Village, while so serving, shall receive from the State
reasonable compensation as provided by law. (Ord. 85-18, 5-16-1985)
1-9-5: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The coordinator of the Emergency Service and Disaster Agency may negotiate
mutual aid agreements with other cities or political subdivisions of the State,
but no such agreement shall be effective until it has been approved by the
Village President and by the State Director of the Emergency Service and
Disaster Agency. (Ord. 85-18, 5-16-1985)
1-9-6: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the State
of Illinois of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile
action, or from manmade or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the
Village Emergency Service and Disaster Agency to cooperate fully with the State
Emergency Service and Disaster Agency and with the Governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law. (Ord. 85-18, 5-16-1985)
1-9-7: COMPENSATION:
Members of the Emergency Service and Disaster Agency who are paid employees or
officers of the Village, if called for training by the State Director of the
Emergency Service and Disaster Agency, shall receive for the time spent in such
training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held; members who
are not such Village employees or officers shall receive for such training time
such compensation as may be established by the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord.
85-18, 5-16-1985)
1-9-8: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The Village Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the State to the Village for expenses incident to training
members of the Emergency Service and Disaster Agency as prescribed by the State
Director of the Emergency Service and Disaster Agency, compensation for
services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving outside
the Village in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of the
Emergency Service and Disaster Agency as provided by law, and any other
reimbursement made by the State incident to the Emergency Service and Disaster
Agency activities as provided by law. (Ord. 85-18, 5-16-1985)
1-9-9: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
The Village Board of Trustees may, on the recommendation of the coordinator of
the Village Emergency Service and Disaster Agency, authorize any purchase or
contracts necessary to place the Village in a position to combat effectively
any disaster resulting from the explosion of any nuclear or other bomb or
missile, and to protect the public health and safety, protect property, and
provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of such disaster, or from
manmade or natural disaster. In the event of enemy-caused or other disaster,
the Village coordinator of the Emergency Service and Disaster Agency is
authorized, on behalf of the Village, to procure such services, supplies,
equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view of the
exigency, without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities normally
prescribed by law pertaining to Village contracts or obligations, as authorized
by "The State Emergency Service and Disaster Agency Act of 1975". (Ord. 85-18,
5-16-1985)
1-9-10: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Village Emergency
Service and Disaster Agency organization shall, before entering upon his
duties, subscribe to the following oath, which shall be filed with the
coordinator:
I,                       , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support
and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institution, and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during
such time as I am affiliated with the Hampshire Emergency Service and Disaster
Agency organization, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this State by force or violence.
(Ord. 85-18, 5-16-1985)
1-9-11: APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES:
The Village President may make an appropriation for the Emergency Service and
Disaster Agency purposes in the manner provided by law, and may in addition
levy for Emergency Service and Disaster Agency purposes only a tax not to
exceed five cents ($0.05) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of the assessed
value of all taxable property in addition to all other taxes, subject to the
limits imposed and as provided by "The State Emergency Service and Disaster
Agency Act of 1975". (Ord. 85-18, 5-16-1985)
ARTICLE X
VILLAGE COLLECTOR
SECTION:
1-10-1: Position Created
1-10-2: Appointment And Term
1-10-3: Duties
1-10-4: Compensation
1-10-5: Village Clerk
1-10-1: POSITION CREATED:
There is hereby created the position of Village Collector for the Village of
Hampshire, Kane County, Illinois (hereinafter called "Collector"). (Ord. 89-1,
1-19-1989)
1-10-2: APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
The Collector shall be an employee of the Village and shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the Village Board, and shall continue to serve until
terminated either by the Collector or by the Mayor and Village Trustees giving
written notice to the other party of intention to terminate this employment and
appointment at least thirty (30) days in advance of such occurrence. The
Collector will serve a one year term, and will be subject to reappointment
annually. (Ord. 89-1, 1-19-1989)
1-10-3: DUTIES:
The Collector shall perform such duties as may be assigned to the Collector,
from time to time, by the Village Board, and shall perform those duties
specified and enumerated in section 3-11-25 through section 3-11-27 of chapter
24 of the Illinois Revised Statutes. (Ord. 89-1, 1-19-1989)
1-10-4: COMPENSATION:
The Collector shall receive such compensation as may, from time to time, be
determined and set by the Village Board. (Ord. 89-1, 1-19-1989)
1-10-5: VILLAGE CLERK:
In accordance with the provisions of section 3-11-28 of chapter 24 of the
Illinois Revised Statutes, the Village Clerk may be appointed as the Collector,
with the additional stipulations as specified below:
   A.   The Collector's position will be governed by the Village Board and
overseen by the Village Clerk.
   B.   The Village Board reserves the right to split the two (2) positions at
which time it sees fit to do so.
   C.   At the time of separation, the Village Collector shall be paid
independently of the Village Clerk.
   D.   Through the Personnel Committee the hourly salary for the Collector's
position will be determined on a yearly basis.
   E.   The Village Board reserves the right to increase or decrease the salary
of the Collector should the two (2) positions become separated at any time.
   F.   The Village Board reserves the right to set a specific number of hours
worked for the Collector's position.
   G.   Because the Collector's position does not meet or exceed the State
statutes for full-time employment, no compensation for insurance will be made
unless otherwise approved by the Village Board. (Ord. 89-1, 1-19-1989)
ARTICLE XI
ETHICS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Definitions
1-11-2: Prohibited Political Activities
1-11-3: Gift Ban
1-11-4: Exceptions
1-11-5: Disposition Of Gifts
1-11-6: Penalties
1-11-7: Amendments
1-11-8: Unconstitutionality
1-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following terms shall be given the
definitions ascribed to them from time to time in the state officials and
employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1; the definitions at
the time of this enactment are as follows, and shall apply to this article,
subject to the provisions of section
1-11-7 of this article:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
b) relating to collective bargaining, or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this article, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed, "compensated
time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises under the
control of the employer and any other time when the officer or employee is
executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the minimum work
time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the election code 3 .
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the village, whether on a full time or part time
basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction and
control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work is
to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
EMPLOYER: The village of Hampshire.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment, b) service credit towards pension benefits, and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining, or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: A. Preparing for, organizing, or participating
in any political meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other
political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer or 2) with
an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer or 2) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord. 04-12,
5-18-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-11-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment,
or 3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any activity which may be
engaged in by an officer or employee as part of his or her official duties, or
activity which is not otherwise prohibited by this article and which is
undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 04-12, 5-18-
2004)
1-11-3: GIFT BAN:
Except as permitted by this article, no officer or employee, and no spouse of
or immediate family member living with any officer or employee (collectively
referred to herein as "recipients"), shall intentionally solicit or accept any
gift from any "prohibited source", as defined herein, or which is otherwise
prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer
or make a gift that violates this section. (Ord. 04-12, 5-18-2004)
1-11-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of section
1-11-3 of this article shall not be applicable to the following, and provided
also, each of the exceptions listed in this section shall be mutually exclusive
and independent of every other exception:
   A.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
   B.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
   C.   Any: 1) contribution that is lawfully made under the election code or
2) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.
   D.   Educational materials and missions.
   E.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
   F.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the individual
as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, great aunt,
great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, grandfather,
grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother,
stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister, and
including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the individual's
spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
   G.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship.
      1.   In determining whether a gift is provided on the basis of personal
friendship, the recipient shall consider the circumstances under which the gift
was offered, such as:
         a.   The history of the relationship between the individual giving the
gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of gifts
between those individuals;
         b.   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual
who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or
business reimbursement for the gift; and
         c.   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual
who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar gifts to other
officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate family members.
   H.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or 2) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
   I.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
   J.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of this
article, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
   K.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
   L.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any calendar
year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 04-12, 5-18-2004)
1-11-5: DISPOSITION OF GIFTS:
An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an immediate family member living
with the officer or employee, does not violate the provisions of this article
if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift from a
prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to its
value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 04-12, 5-18-2004)
1-11-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-11-2 of this article shall be subject to a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   B.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-11-3 of this article shall be subject to a fine in an amount of not less than
one thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   C.   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this article to the local enforcement authorities, the
state's attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punished by a
term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined
in an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   D.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-11-2 or
1-11-3 of this article shall be subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 04-
12, 5-18-2004)
1-11-7: AMENDMENTS:
Any and all amendments to the act which shall be enacted by the general
assembly and become effective after the initial effective date of the ordinance
establishing this article shall be incorporated into this article by reference,
and shall be applicable to these regulations governing the solicitation,
acceptance, offering, and making of gifts, and to prohibited political
activities; provided, however, any such amendment which specifies that its
provisions shall be optional for a unit of local government shall not be
incorporated into this article unless and until expressly added to these
provisions by an amendatory ordinance duly enacted by the corporate
authorities. (Ord. 04-12, 5-18-2004)
1-11-8: UNCONSTITUTIONALITY:
If, upon any challenge to the provisions of the act, the Illinois supreme court
declares all or any part of the act to be unconstitutional, then this article,
or the corresponding part of this article, as the case may be, shall be deemed
to be repealed without further action by the corporate authorities, as of the
date such court decision becomes final. (Ord. 04-12, 5-18-2004)
ARTICLE XII
VILLAGE MANAGER
SECTION:
1-12-1: Office Established
1-12-2: Appointment
1-12-3: Bond
1-12-4: Compensation
1-12-5: Chief Manager
1-12-6: Acting Manager
1-12-7: Employment Authority
1-12-8: Powers And Duties Of Village Manager
1-12-9: Matters To Be Directed To Village Manager's Attention
1-12-10: Removal
1-12-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED:
The office of Village Manager is hereby created subject to the provisions of
this Article. (Ord. 20-10, 2-20-2020)
1-12-2: APPOINTMENT:
The Village President and Board of Trustees are hereby authorized to employ a
person to fill the office of Village Manager. Such Manager shall be appointed
by the Village President, by and with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 20-10, 2-20-2020)
1-12-3: BOND:
The Village Manager shall furnish a bond in such amount and with such surety as
may be approved by the Corporate Authorities, such bond to be conditioned upon
the faithful performance of his or her duties. The cost of the bond shall be
paid by the Village. The bond of the Village Manager may be part of a blanket
bond. (Ord. 20-10, 2-20-2020)
1-12-4: COMPENSATION:
The Village Manager shall receive such compensation as the Corporate
Authorities shall from time to time establish. The Board of Trustees may enter
into an employment agreement with the Village Manager which specifies certain
terms and conditions of his employment, including but not limited to,
establishing the level of compensation of the Village Manager, specifying
benefits including levels of support for the Village Manager's continuing
professional education and association activities, determining separation pay
upon termination of the Village Manager's employment within the limitations
established by law, and defining other conditions of employment. (Ord. 20-10,
2-20-2020)
1-12-5: CHIEF MANAGER:
The Village Manager, under and subject to the direction of the Corporate
Authorities, shall be the chief administrator of the Village, and shall be
responsible to the Corporate Authorities for the proper administration of the
affairs of the Village and the policies adopted by the Board of Trustees. (Ord.
20- 10, 2-20-2020)
1-12-6: ACTING MANAGER:
Whenever the Village Manager is absent from the Village for personal reasons,
or on account of village business, or is otherwise unable to perform the duties
and responsibilities of Village Manager due to short term illness or
disability, the Village Manager may designate in writing a member of the
Village's administrative staff to serve as acting manager and to carry out the
duties of the manager during the Village Manager's absence. In the event of a
prolonged absence, as determined by either the Village Manager himself or by
the Village President and Board of Trustees, then the Village President by and
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees shall appoint an acting
manager, whose office shall be temporary and who shall serve only until such
time as the Village Manager is able to resume the duties of his office. (Ord.
20-10, 2-20- 2020)
1-12-7: EMPLOYMENT AUTHORITY:
The Village Manager may employ such assistants, department heads, and employees
as are necessary to the proper functioning of the Village, except that the
Village Manager may not appoint those village officers who are by state statute
required to be appointed by the Village President. (Ord. 20-10, 2-20- 2020)
1-12-8: POWERS AND DUTIES OF VILLAGE MANAGER:
The Village Manager shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.    Create the agenda for and attend all meetings of the Board of Trustees
and other official Village Boards and Commissions as directed by the Board of
Trustees, except those for which the Board determines that attendance is not
required because of a conflict or other reason. The Village Manager shall have
the right to take part in the discussion of all matters coming before the Board
of Trustees or other official Village Boards and Commissions, except for
matters as to which there may be a conflict of interest, but shall have no
right to vote. The Village Manager shall be entitled to the same notice of all
regular and special meetings of the Board of Trustees as is provided to members
of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Direct, supervise and coordinate the activities of all departments,
offices, and agencies of the Village, except as otherwise provided by law, and
administer the affairs of the Village to ensure that all Village business is
accomplished efficiently and economically.
   C.    Investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the
administration of the government of the Village and the services maintained by
the public utilities in the Village.
   D.   Employ, discipline, suspend and terminate any and all village
employees, except when otherwise provided by law or contract, and to the extent
permitted by law; and, subject to the Village Manager's discretion and direct
supervision, delegate to any village employee any of these employment powers
with respect to any subordinates of that employee.
   E.   Propose to the Village President and Board of Trustees such personnel
rules and regulations as the Village Manager deems necessary to manage the
personnel of the Village such rules may cover procedures and policies to govern
the following:
      1.    Establishment of job descriptions, duties, classifications, and pay
plans;
      2.    Recruitment, selection, promotion, evaluation, transfer, discipline
and separation of Village personnel;
      3.    Establishment of hours of work, attendance, leave regulations, and
working conditions;
      4.    Rules covering the outside employment, nepotism, and political
activity of Village personnel;
      5.    Maintenance and use of necessary records and forms;
      6.    System of handling all grievances.
      7.   Compliance with the requirements of the Illinois Workplace
Transparency Act.
   F.    Supervise and administer the conduct of all collective bargaining
processes of the Village and recommend to the Board of Trustees collective
bargaining agreements for consideration and approval by the Board of Trustees,
and administer all employee organization contracts concluded through the
collective bargaining process.
   G.   Recommend to the Board of Trustees the creating, consolidating, and
combining of offices, positions, departments or units of the administrative and
executive departments of the Village.
   H.   Serve concurrently as budget officer of the Village pursuant to §
1-13-1 of the Village Code, when so designated by the Village President and
approved by the Corporate Authorities, and prepare and submit to the Village
President and Board of Trustees by the date set by the Board of Trustees a
recommended annual budget for Village operations and recommended capital
programs; and administer the approved budget after adoption by the Corporate
Authorities.
   I.    Supervise the purchase of all materials, supplies, and equipment for
which funds are provided in the annual budget of the village; let contracts for
such expenditures as shall be less than twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) in total cost; and advertise and receive bids for, and recommend
contracts for, acquisition of such materials, supplies and equipment as shall
be twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) in cost or greater.
   J.    Sign on behalf of the Village any contract authorized by the Board of
Trustees, except where the Board of Trustees or state statutes direct that some
other officer shall do so; ensure that all contracts with the Village are
faithfully kept and performed by all parties thereto; and see that all
franchises, permits, and privileges granted by the Village are faithfully
observed.
   K.   Report periodically to the Board of Trustees the financial condition of
the Village.
   L.    Submit to the Village President and Board of Trustees and make
available to the public a complete report on the finances and administrative
activities of the Village as of the end of each fiscal year.
   M.    Cause to be prepared grant and/or loan applications on behalf of the
Village; administer grant and/or loan funds; and prepare and file, or cause to
be prepared and filed, relevant reports pertaining thereto with the Village
Clerk and all appropriate agencies.
   N.   Keep a current inventory of all real and personal property of the
Village and the location(s) of such property, and be responsible for the care
and custody of all Village property which is not assigned to some other officer
or employee for care and control.
   O.   Serve as the Village's Zoning Administrator under §
6-14-1 et seq. of the Village Code.
   P.   Serve as Administrator of the Village's Stormwater Management
Regulations, pursuant to Article XII of said regulations.
   Q.   Serve as Enforcement Official under the Village's Floodplain
Regulations, pursuant to §
13-1-4 of the Village Code.
   R.   Provide for the enforcement of all laws and ordinances within the
Village.
   S.   Evaluate Village projects, programs, agreements and services and make
recommendations for modifications and improvements thereto.
   T.   Recommend to the Board of Trustees such measures as, in his or her
judgment, he or she deems to be in the best interest of the Village.
   U.   Represent the Village in its dealings with other governmental agencies
and officials, businesses, not-for-profit organizations, residents, and the
general public as necessary.
   V.   Devote his entire time to the discharge of his official duties.
   W.   Perform such other duties as may from time to time be required by the
Board of Trustees consistent with state statutes and the ordinances of the
Village.
   X.   Hold such other appointive offices as may be consistent with law, as
the Village President and Board of Trustees may determine, and faithfully and
honestly discharge the duties and powers associated with such office.
The powers assigned in this section to the Village Manager are not intended to
diminish those powers otherwise assigned to other municipal officers by statute
or ordinance, including, but not limited to, the Village President. (Ord. 20-
10, 2-20- 2020)
1-12-9: MATTERS TO BE DIRECTED TO VILLAGE MANAGER'S ATTENTION:
The following matters, among others, shall be directed to the attention of the
Village Manager:
   A.   Matters pertaining to any office or department of the Village that may
require or request Board of Trustee action or attention, which matters shall be
submitted to the Board of Trustees by the Village Manager, with such
recommendations as he or she may deem advisable or necessary.
   B.   All requests from any department or employee, to which requests the
Village Manager shall provide appropriate instruction as to Village policy and/
or future action.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided by state law or Village ordinance, matters
relating to services to be provided by and to the administration of the Village
shall be administered through the office of Village Manager, and the elected
and appointed officers of the village shall refrain from giving any orders
either publicly or privately to Village Department heads and employees and any
other subordinates of the Village Manager. (Ord. 20-10, 2-20-2020)
1-12-10: REMOVAL:
The Village Manager may be removed in accordance with law. (Ord. 20-10, 2- 20-
2020)
ARTICLE XIII
BUDGET OFFICER
SECTION:
1-13-1: Appointment And Term
1-13-2: Bond; Oath
1-13-3: Powers And Duties
1-13-4: Vacancy
1-13-5: Compensation
1-13-6: Illinois Municipal Code Provisions Adopted
1-13-1: APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
A budget officer shall be appointed by the village president with the advice
and consent of the board of trustees, to serve a term designated by such
appointment, but in no event longer than the term of the current village
president. Removal from office shall be in accordance with applicable state law
and applicable contractual provisions, if any. The budget officer may
concurrently hold another nonconflicting municipal office, either elected or
appointed. (Ord. 07-48, 10-4-2007)
1-13-2: BOND; OATH:
   A.   Bond: Before entering upon the duties of office, the budget officer
shall furnish a surety bond in the amount to be approved by the president and
board of trustees; said bond shall be conditioned on the faithful performance
of the budget officer's duties. The premium for the bond shall be paid by the
village. The bond shall be filed with the village clerk.
   B.   Oath: Before entering upon the duties of office, the budget officer
shall take and subscribe the oath required by the Illinois constitution. The
subscribed oath shall be filed in the office of the village clerk. (Ord. 07-48,
10-4-2007)
1-13-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The village budget officer shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   Permit and encourage and establish the use of efficient planning,
budgeting, auditing, reporting accounting, and other fiscal management
procedures in all municipal departments, commissions, and boards;
   B.   Compile an annual budget in accordance with state law;
   C.   Examine all books and records of all municipal departments,
commissions, and boards which relate to monies for commissions, and boards, and
paid out by the municipality, municipal department, commissions, and boards,
debts and accounts receivable, amounts owed by or to the municipality,
municipal departments, commissions, and boards;
   D.   Obtain such additional information from the municipality, municipal
departments, commissions, and boards as may be useful to the budget officer for
purposes of compiling a municipal budget, such information to be furnished by
the municipality, municipal departments, commissions, and boards in the form
required by the budget officer. Any department, commission or board which
refuses to make such information as is requested of it available to the budget
officer shall not be permitted to make expenditures under any subsequent budget
for the municipality until such municipal department, commission, or board
shall comply in full with the request of the budget officer;
   E.   Transfer funds within any fund or any department. The corporate
authorities, by a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the members then holding office
may revise the budget, and/or transfer monies within a fund or from one fund to
another. No revision of the annual budget shall be made increasing the budget
in the event monies are not available to do so;
   F.   Establish and maintain such procedures as shall ensure that no
expenditures are made by the municipality, municipal departments, commission,
or board except as authorized by the budget;
   G.   Perform such other powers and duties as may be provided from time to
time by law. (Ord. 07-48, 10-4-2007)
1-13-4: VACANCY:
Whenever a vacancy shall occur in the office of budget officer, the vacancy
shall be filled in accordance with the requirements of the Illinois municipal
code, section 3.1-30-5. If circumstances warrant it, a temporary successor may
be appointed in accordance with the requirement of the Illinois municipal code,
section 3/1-30-5. (Ord. 07-48, 10-4-2007)
1-13-5: COMPENSATION:
Any compensation to be paid to the budget officer, including any temporary
budget officer, shall be as determined from time to time by the board of
trustees. (Ord. 07-48, 10-4-2007)
1-13-6: ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL CODE PROVISIONS ADOPTED:
The village hereby incorporates into this article the terms and provisions of
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-2-9.1 through 8-2-9.10, as now in effect and
as from time to time hereafter amended, providing for the adoption of an annual
municipal budget in lieu of the passage of an annual appropriation ordinance.
(Ord. 07-48, 10-4-2007)
ARTICLE XIV
BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-14-1: Board Established
1-14-2: Powers And Duties
1-14-3: Other Employees Of The Police Department
1-14-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
There shall be a board of police commissioners as provided by law, which shall
consist of three (3) members whose term shall be for three (3) years. The
members of the police commission shall be appointed by the village president,
by and with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. The three (3)
members shall serve staggered terms, with one member appointed each year, as
provided by law. (Ord. 11-18, 7-21-2011)
1-14-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of police commissioners shall have such powers and duties as are
prescribed by law, including the authority to appoint all full time officers
and members of the village police department (except the chief of police), and
to adopt rules and regulations to govern appointments and removals of such
officers and members. The board shall conduct all entrance and promotional
examinations for the police department in the manner required by law. (Ord. 11-
18, 7-21-2011)
1-14-3: OTHER EMPLOYEES OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT:
Notwithstanding the powers of appointment of the board of police commissioners,
the Village Manager may employ police crossing guards, radio operators, desk
attendants, and other clerical workers who may be employees of the village, and
who are not police officers, regardless of whether they shall wear a uniform or
badge in the performance of their respective duties. (Ord. 11-18, 7-21-2011;
amd. Ord. 20-14, 5-7-2020)
ARTICLE XV
POLICE PENSION BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-15-1: Fund Established
1-15-2: Board Established
1-15-3: Definition Of Police Officer
1-15-4: Members Of Board
1-15-5: Powers And Duties
1-15-6: Segregation Of Funds Required
1-15-7: Finance Director To Be Fund Treasurer
1-15-1: FUND ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established, effective May 1, 2012, a police pension fund as
provided by law. (Ord. 12-39, 12-6-2012)
1-15-2: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a board of trustees of police pension fund as
provided by law. (Ord. 12-39, 12-6-2012)
1-15-3: DEFINITION OF POLICE OFFICER:
For purposes of this article, the term "police officer" is defined as any
person who is appointed to the police force of a police department and is sworn
and commissioned to perform the duties on a full time basis and who is entitled
to participate in the benefits of the police pension fund as provided by the
police pension fund act and the rules and regulations promulgated by the board
of trustees of police pension fund. (Ord. 12-39, 12-6-2012)
1-15-4: MEMBERS OF BOARD:
The board of trustees of police pension fund shall consist of five (5) members,
which members shall serve without compensation; two (2) of whom shall be
appointed by the village president, two (2) of whom shall be elected from the
active village police force, and one of whom shall be elected from the
beneficiaries of the police pension fund. The terms of such members shall be
two (2) years, with the terms of the members appointed by the village president
never expiring in the same year and the terms of the members elected from the
active village police force never expiring in the same year. (Ord. 12-39, 12-6-
2012)
1-15-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of trustees of the police pension fund shall have such powers and
duties as are prescribed by law, including the authority to adopt rules and
regulations in conformity with the police pension fund act as are necessary to
govern the conduct of the elections of the members of the board of trustees of
the police pension fund, the duties of such members, and procedures regarding
meetings, hearings, and general administration of the board of trustees of the
police pension fund. The board of trustees of the police pension fund shall
prepare an annual list of beneficiaries and such other reports as are required
by law. (Ord. 12-39, 12-6-2012)
1-15-6: SEGREGATION OF FUNDS REQUIRED:
There shall be set apart by the village and the finance director thereof
beginning as of May 1, 2012, all funds held by the police pension fund. (Ord.
12-39, 12-6-2012)
1-15-7: FINANCE DIRECTOR TO BE FUND TREASURER:
The village finance director shall be ex officio treasurer and custodian of the
police pension fund. (Ord. 12-39, 12-6-2012)
ARTICLE XVI
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
SECTION:
1-16-1: Establishment And Purpose
1-16-2: Objectives And Duties Of The Commission
1-16-3: Members; Qualifications And Appointment
1-16-4: Term Of Office; Vacancy
1-16-5: Meetings
1-16-6: Annual Report
1-16-7: Limitations On Powers
1-16-8: Sub-Committee For Downtown Beautification
1-16-1: ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   There is hereby established an advisory commission in the Village to be
known as the Hampshire Business Development Commission.
   B.   The purposes of the Business Development Commission are to advise the
Board of Trustees in matters pertaining to attracting and retaining quality
commercial and industrial businesses to the Village, in order to increase local
Sales Tax and Real Estate Tax revenues, create new employment opportunities,
diversify the local economy, and enhance the community's image, all of which
will benefit Village residents. (Ord. 16-26, 10-20-2016)
1-16-2: OBJECTIVES AND DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION:
The commission shall function in an advisory capacity to the Village President
and Board of Trustees relating to the following objectives, goals and duties:
   A.   To review proposals and recommend programs for attracting new
businesses to, and revitalizing existing businesses in, the Village.
   B.   To report from time to time to the Village Board of Trustees regarding
opportunities for business and for investment in the commercial or industrial
zoning districts in the Village.
   C.   To prepare, review and develop promotional brochures, other materials,
and/or activities for marketing and promoting the Village as a desirable
location for business.
   D.   To review and make recommendations concerning development or
redevelopment opportunities in the Village and attracting new business
development in the Village, including specific industries for business
attraction efforts.
   E.   To review and recommend standards for use in evaluating the economic
impact of new or expanding business in the Village.
   F.   To cooperate with and assist existing business associations in the
Village, to the extent that its goals and objectives are in furtherance of the
goals and objectives of the Village.
   G.   To perform such additional functions and activities as may from time to
time arise to encourage and facilitate business development and economic growth
in the Village. (Ord. 16-26, 10-20-2016)
1-16-3: MEMBERS; QUALIFICATIONS AND APPOINTMENT:
   A.   There shall be seven (7) regular members of the Business Development
Commission; and in addition, the Village President and the Chair of the
Economic Development Committee of the Village Board of Trustees shall serve as
ex officio members of the commission.
   B.   The Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees, shall appoint and may remove the members of the Business Development
Commission; and the Village President shall appoint one member to act as Chair.
   C.   Not less than five (5) members of the commission shall be appointed on
the basis of experience or background in commercial or industrial development,
urban design and planning, commercial or industrial business operations,
commercial or industrial real estate, retail marketing, or business development
organization or association; one member of the commission, who shall be an
elector and resident of the Village for at least one year preceding the date of
appointment, may be appointed absent such basis of experience or background;
and one member shall be a member of the Village Board of Trustees.
   D.   Because of the qualifications required, not all members of the
commission shall be required to be residents of the Village; provided, however,
not less than four (4) members shall be electors and residents of the Village
for at least one year preceding the date of his or her appointment.
   E.   The Chair shall be a resident and an elector of the Village for at
least one year preceding the date of his or her appointment as Chair; and no
person shall serve more than two (2) consecutive terms as Chair of the
commission.
   F.   The commission shall select from among its members a Vice Chair and a
Secretary. The persons so selected shall serve for an initial term until the
next following April 30, and they shall serve for terms of one year thereafter
for each fiscal year of the Village; and, such persons may be reelected to the
same position from time to time. (Ord. 16-26, 10-20-2016)
1-16-4: TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCY:
The term of office for the nontrustee members of the commission shall be three
(3) years, or until a successor shall be duly appointed; and shall run from May
1 of one year to April 30 three (3) years hence; provided however that the
initial term of office for each Commissioner shall be set by the Village
President for any lesser term, in order to assure that the terms of no more
than three (3) members end in any particular year. Further provided, each
commission member who is a Village Trustee shall be appointed for a term that
coincides with his or her term of office as a member of the Village Board. Any
vacancy shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired portion of the term.
(Ord. 16-26, 10-20-2016)
1-16-5: MEETINGS:
   A.   The commission shall meet at least once per month, and each calendar
year shall establish and deliver to the Village Clerk its meeting schedule for
the upcoming year in accordance with law.
   B.   All meetings of the commission shall be held in accordance with the
Illinois Open Meetings Act.
   C.   The commission shall keep written minutes of all meetings and other
proceedings, and copies of such minutes shall promptly be filed with the
Village Clerk for official records. Preparing the minutes shall be the
responsibility of the Secretary of the commission.
   D.   Except as may be otherwise determined by the commission or as set forth
herein, "Robert's Rules of Order" shall govern the conduct of all meetings.
   E.   For the purpose of conducting business, a majority of the members
having been appointed and holding the position of Commissioner shall constitute
a quorum. A vacancy in a position of Commissioner shall not be counted in
determining a quorum. (Ord. 16-26, 10-20-2016)
1-16-6: ANNUAL REPORT:
Each April, the commission shall prepare and deliver to the Corporate
Authorities a report addressing business development and economic growth within
the Village during the past twelve (12) months, and specifically including
economic prospects and trends within the Village, and a description of the
activities of the commission, during that time. (Ord. 16-26, 10-20-2016)
1-16-7: LIMITATIONS ON POWERS:
The commission shall not be authorized to expend any funds of the Village, and
may not enter into any contract in its name, or in the name of the Village, in
each case without the prior authorization of the Corporate Authorities. (Ord.
16-26, 10-20-2016)
1-16-8: SUB-COMMITTEE FOR DOWNTOWN BEAUTIFICATION:
   A.   The commission may establish a sub-committee, to be designated the
"Sub-Committee for Downtown Beautification", to advise the commission regarding
programs, efforts and applications for improvement of the appearances of the
Village's Central Business District. Such sub-committee shall consist of five
(5) persons appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent of
the Board of Trustees each for a three (3) year term; provided, however, the
initial terms of such members shall be staggered, as follows: one member shall
be appointed for a one year term; two (2) members shall be appointed for a two
(2) year term; and one member shall be appointed for a three (3) year term; and
the fifth member shall be a member of the commission, shall serve as Chair, and
shall serve a three (3) year term.
   B.   The sub-committee shall make recommendations to the commission
regarding the budgeting and use of funds for beautification of the Central
(downtown) Business District in the Village; and regarding applications to the
commission for use of such funds. (Ord. 18-18, 6-7-2018)
CHAPTER 2
POLICE REGULATIONS
Police Department   I
Definitions   II
Criminal Offenses   III
Vehicle Code   IV
Parental Responsibility   V
Parking Regulations   VI
Snow Equipment, Motorcycles And Bicycles   VII
Golf Carts, Electric UTVs And Low-Speed Vehicles   VIII
Miscellaneous Provisions   IX
Curfew And Truancy   X
Animal Control   XI
Property Maintenance; Removals   XII
Junk   XIII
Open Burning   XIV
Garbage And Refuse   XV
Penalties   XVI
Fair Housing Policy   XVII
Newspaper Dispensing Devices   XVIII
Fireworks Regulations   XIX
Large Group Outdoor Gatherings   XX
Abandoned And Inoperable Vehicles   XXI
Truck Permits   XXII
Cannabis; Drug Paraphernalia   XXIII
Alarm Systems   XXIV
Unreasonable Noise And Offensive Use Of Property   XXV
ARTICLE I
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-1-1: Department Established
2-1-2: Personnel Appointed
2-1-3: Supervision Over Department
2-1-4: Compensation Of Police
2-1-5: Duties Of Members
2-1-6: Uniforms And Equipment
2-1-7: Chief Of Police
2-1-8: Part-Time Policemen
2-1-9: Internal Rules And Regulations
2-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established an executive department of the Village municipal
government to be known as the Hampshire Police Department, for the protection
of lives and property, the enforcement of State laws and Village ordinances,
and related police functions. (1985 Code)
2-1-2: PERSONNEL APPOINTED:
   A.   The Hampshire Police Department shall consist of one Chief of Police
and such other policemen as may be provided from time to time by the Village
President and Board of Trustees.
   B.   All members of the Hampshire Police Department, including the Chief of
Police, shall be appointed by the Village President and Board of Trustees, as
provided by law. (1985 Code)
2-1-3: SUPERVISION OVER DEPARTMENT:
The Village Manager shall exercise a general supervision and control over the
Hampshire Police Department and the officers therein, and shall see that they
are prompt and efficient in the discharge of their duties. The Village Manager
shall, from time to time, present information to the Board of Trustees
regarding the affairs of the Village and shall recommend for their
consideration such measures as shall be deemed necessary to preserve the peace
and good order of the Village, and the prompt and efficient enforcement of all
the laws and ordinances of the Village. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 20-14, 5-7-2020)
2-1-4: COMPENSATION OF POLICE:
Compensation for members of the Hampshire Police Department shall be determined
from time to time by the Village President and Board of Trustees. (1985 Code)
2-1-5: DUTIES OF MEMBERS:
   A.   All police officers shall have the powers conferred upon them by law.
   B.   All police officers appointed hereunder shall be conservators of the
peace and shall aid in the preservation of the public peace.
   C.   All police officers appointed hereunder shall have the authority to
observe and enforce the laws of the State of Illinois and the ordinances of the
Village in the protection of the people's lives and properties. To this end,
they shall have the authority to detain or arrest persons as provided by law.
   D.   All police officers appointed hereunder shall have the authority to
serve summonses and warrants in criminal cases arising out of the officer's
daily duties.
   E.   All police officers appointed hereunder shall promptly execute all
orders given by the Chief of Police and command officers within the line of
their duties.
   F.   All police officers appointed hereunder will familiarize themselves and
be responsible for performing their duties within the guidelines of published
rules and regulations of the Hampshire Police Department as they are adopted
from time to time by the Village President and Board of Trustees. (1985 Code)
2-1-6: UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   All police officers appointed hereunder shall wear an appropriate
uniform and badge insignia and carry an identification card to be issued
annually as prescribed by established Police Department rules and regulations
as adopted from time to time by the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   B.   The Village will furnish all police officers appointed hereunder with
the necessary uniform and equipment upon his or her initial appointment
pursuant to current rules and regulations as established from time to time by
the Village President and Board of Trustees. (1985 Code)
2-1-7: CHIEF OF POLICE:
The Chief of Police of the Hampshire Police Department shall have the following
duties and responsibilities:
   A.   The Chief of Police shall insure public safety through the effective
delivery of law enforcement programs and police patrol activities.
   B.   The Chief of Police shall maintain a cost effective police service
program through careful financial and manpower planning.
   C.   The Chief of Police shall contribute to the safety and welfare of the
Village through community education programs on security, safety and crime
prevention.
   D.   The Chief of Police shall develop and maintain inter- community
relationships to maximize law enforcement and protective services.
   E.   The Chief of Police shall assist the Village President and Board of
Trustees in policy formulation and decision making by providing accurate and
timely data regarding law enforcement, development needs and resources.
   F.   The Chief of Police shall insure a positive image of the Hampshire
Police Department through the selection, development, and motivation of a
competent sworn and non-sworn staff.
   G.   The Chief of Police shall provide police service in a timely fashion by
careful needs analysis, forecasting and manpower allocation.
   H.   The Chief of Police shall see that a suitable records department is
maintained to keep track of all Department activity and provide for the lawful
dissemination of that information. He shall also furnish a monthly report
thereof to the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   I.   The Chief of Police shall have the authority to enforce all ordinances
of the Village and all statutes of the State of Illinois. He shall have the
authority to detain or arrest persons as provided by law.
   J.   The Chief of Police or his duly appointed police officer shall perform
such other and additional duties, outside of the Police Department, as may be
from time to time required by the Village President and Board of Trustees.
(1985 Code)
2-1-8: PART-TIME POLICEMEN:
   A.   Appointment: In case of emergency, and where the public welfare of the
Village so requires, the Chief of Police, with the approval of the Village
President and Board of Trustees, may appoint such number of part-time policemen
as may be necessary.
   B.   Powers And Duties: All part-time policemen appointed hereunder shall
have the same obligations, powers and duties accorded to regular members of the
Hampshire Police Department as heretofore provided. (1985 Code)
2-1-9: INTERNAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Rules and Regulations for the members of the Hampshire Police Department as
Resolution 81-8 shall be in full force and effect for the internal operation of
the Hampshire Police Department. The Village President and Board of Trustees
may revise the internal Rules and Regulations of the Hampshire Police
Department from time to time as they deem necessary. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE II
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Definitions Of Words And Phrases
2-2-2: Alley
2-2-3: Bicycle
2-2-4: Business District
2-2-5: Controlled Access Highway
2-2-6: Cowling
2-2-7: Crosswalk
2-2-8: Driver
2-2-9: Emergency Vehicle
2-2-10: Explosive
2-2-11: Farm Tractor
2-2-12: Flammable Liquid
2-2-13: Highway
2-2-14: Improved Highway
2-2-15: Intersection
2-2-16: Laned Roadway
2-2-17: Loading Zone
2-2-18: Merging Traffic
2-2-19: Metal Tire
2-2-20: Motorcycle
2-2-21: Motor Driven Cycle Or Scooter; Low-Speed Electric Bicycle, Low-Speed
Gas Bicycle; And Low-Speed Electric Scooter
2-2-22: Motorized Pedalcycle
2-2-23: Motor Vehicle
2-2-24: Official Traffic Control Devices
2-2-25: Owner
2-2-26: Park
2-2-27: Pedestrian
2-2-28: Pneumatic Tire
2-2-29: Police Officer
2-2-30: Private Road Or Driveway
2-2-31: Property Line
2-2-32: Public Building
2-2-33: Railroad
2-2-34: Railroad-Highway Grade Crossing
2-2-35: Railroad Signs Or Signals
2-2-36: Railroad Train
2-2-37: Residence District
2-2-38: Right Of Way
2-2-39: Road Tractor
2-2-40: Roadway
2-2-41: Safety Zone
2-2-42: School Bus
2-2-43: Semitrailer
2-2-44: Sidewalk
2-2-45: Slick
2-2-46: Snowmobile
2-2-47: Solid Tire
2-2-48: Stop
2-2-49: Stop Or Stopping
2-2-50: Street Or Highway
2-2-51: Tow Truck
2-2-52: Traffic
2-2-53: Traffic Control Signal
2-2-54: Trailer
2-2-55: Truck-Tractor
2-2-56: Urban District
2-2-57: Vehicle
2-2-1: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND PHRASES:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall, for the
purpose of this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this article, except when the context otherwise requires and except where
another definition set forth in another article of this chapter and applicable
to that article or a designated part thereof is applicable. (Ord. 08-04, 2-21-
2008)
2-2-2: ALLEY:
A public way within a block generally giving access to the rear of lots or
buildings and not used for general traffic circulation. (1985 Code)
2-2-3: BICYCLE:
Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having
two (2) tandem wheels, either of which is more than twenty inches (20") in
diameter. (1985 Code)
2-2-4: BUSINESS DISTRICT:
The territory of any city, village or incorporated town contiguous to and
including a highway when within any six hundred feet (600') along such highway
there are buildings in use for business or industrial purposes, including but
not limited to hotels, banks, or office buildings, railroad stations, and
public buildings which occupy at least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on
one side or three hundred feet (300') collectively on both sides of the
highway. (1985 Code)
2-2-5: CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY:
Every street or highway in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting
lands and other persons have no legal right of access to or from the same
except at such points only as may be determined by the public authority having
jurisdiction over such street or highway. (1985 Code)
2-2-6: COWLING:
The forward position of a snowmobile surrounding the motor and clutch assembly.
(1985 Code)
2-2-7: CROSSWALK:
That portion of the roadway included within the prolongation of the sidewalk
lines at street intersections. (1985 Code)
2-2-8: DRIVER:
Every person who drives or is in physical control of a vehicle. (1985 Code)
2-2-9: EMERGENCY VEHICLE:
Police vehicles, vehicles of the Fire Department, ambulances, vehicles carrying
a State, County or Municipal officer or employee in response to an emergency
call and emergency vehicles of public service corporations on an emergency
call. (1985 Code)
2-2-10: EXPLOSIVE:
Any chemical compound or mixture that is commonly used or intended for the
purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any oxidizing and
combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause such a sudden
generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous pressures are
capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects or of
destroying life or limb. (1985 Code)
2-2-11: FARM TRACTOR:
Every motor vehicle designated and used primarily as a farm implement for
drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of husbandry, and every
implement of husbandry which is self-propelled. (1985 Code)
2-2-12: FLAMMABLE LIQUID:
Any liquid which has a flash point of seventy degrees (70o) or less, as
determined by tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device. (1985 Code)
2-2-13: HIGHWAY:
The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained
when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of
vehicular travel. (1985 Code)
2-2-14: IMPROVED HIGHWAY:
A roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam or gravel. (1985 Code)
2-2-15: INTERSECTION:
The area embraced within the prolongation of the property lines of two (2) or
more streets which join at an angle, whether or not such streets cross. (1985
Code)
2-2-16: LANED ROADWAY:
A street, the roadway of which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic. (1985 Code)
2-2-17: LOADING ZONE:
The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during
the loading or unloading of passengers or materials. (1985 Code)
2-2-18: MERGING TRAFFIC:
A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on converging roadways to permit
simultaneous or alternate entry into the junction thereof, wherein the driver
of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his vehicular speed and lateral
position so as to avoid a collision with any other vehicle. (1985 Code)
2-2-19: METAL TIRE:
Any tire the surface of which in contact with the roadway is wholly or
partially of metal or other hard, nonresilient material. (1985 Code)
2-2-20: MOTORCYCLE:
Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and designed to
travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, but
excluding a tractor. (1985 Code)
2-2-21: MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLE OR SCOOTER; LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE, LOW-SPEED
GAS BICYCLE; AND LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC SCOOTER:
Every motorcycle and every motor driven scooter with less than one hundred
fifty (150) cubic centimeter piston displacement, including motorized
pedalcycles.
Low-speed electric bicycle has the meaning ascribed to it in section 1-140.10
of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-140.10). A low-speed electric
bicycle is not a moped or a motor driven cycle.
Low-speed gas bicycle has the meaning ascribed to it in section 1-140.15 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-140.15).
Low-speed electric scooter has the meaning ascribed to it in section 1-140.11
of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-140.11). A low-speed electric
scooter does not include a moped or motor driven cycle. (Ord. 04-40, 9-9-2004;
amd. Ord. 25-22, 6-5-2025)
2-2-22: MOTORIZED PEDALCYCLE:
A bicycle type vehicle with fully operative pedals for propulsion by human
power, equipped with a power drive system that functions directly or
automatically only and not requiring clutching or shifting by the operator
after the drive system is engaged, and a helper motor with a cylinder capacity
not exceeding fifty (50) cubic centimeter displacement, which produces no more
than two (2.0) brake horsepower, and is capable of propelling the vehicle at a
maximum speed of no more than thirty (30) miles per hour on level ground. (1985
Code)
2-2-23: MOTOR VEHICLE:
Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is propelled by
electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon
rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human power, motorized wheelchairs,
low-speed electric bicycles, and low-speed gas bicycles. (1985 Code; amd. Ord.
23-01, 2-16-2023)
2-2-24: OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
All signs, signals, markings, and devices which conform with the Illinois state
manual and not inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by authority of
a public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning, or guiding traffic. (1985 Code)
2-2-25: OWNER:
A person who holds legal title of a motor vehicle, or in the event a motor
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of such motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee, lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this chapter. (1985 Code)
2-2-26: PARK:
To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, for a period of time greater than
is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of passengers.
(1985 Code)
2-2-27: PEDESTRIAN:
Any person afoot. (1985 Code)
2-2-28: PNEUMATIC TIRE:
Every tire in which compressed air is designated to support the load. (1985
Code)
2-2-29: POLICE OFFICER:
Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations, or to enforce laws or ordinances of the
state of Illinois and village of Hampshire. (1985 Code)
2-2-30: PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY:
Every way or place in private ownership and used for vehicular travel by the
owner and those having express or implied permission from the owner, but not by
other persons. (1985 Code)
2-2-31: PROPERTY LINE:
The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots or property
abutting thereon. (1985 Code)
2-2-32: PUBLIC BUILDING:
A building used by the municipality, the county, any park district, school
district, the state of Illinois, or the United States government. (1985 Code)
2-2-33: RAILROAD:
A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars, operated
upon stationary rails. (1985 Code)
2-2-34: RAILROAD-HIGHWAY GRADE CROSSING:
The intersection of stationary rails owned or used in the operation of a
railroad corporation across a highway. (1985 Code)
2-2-35: RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNALS:
Any sign, signal, or device other than an official traffic-control device
erected in accordance with the laws governing same and intended to give notice
of the presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train. (1985
Code)
2-2-36: RAILROAD TRAIN:
A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars coupled thereto,
operated upon rails, except streetcars. (1985 Code)
2-2-37: RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
The territory of any city, village, or unincorporated town contiguous to and
including a highway not comprising a business district when the property on
such highway for a distance of three hundred feet (300') or more is in the main
improved with residences or residences and buildings in use for business. (1985
Code)
2-2-38: RIGHT OF WAY:
The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful manner in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of directions, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other. (1985 Code)
2-2-39: ROAD TRACTOR:
Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles and not so
constructed as to carry any load thereon either independently or any part of
the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn. (1985 Code)
2-2-40: ROADWAY:
That portion of a highway improved, designated or ordinarily used for vehicular
travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway includes two
(2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" as used herein shall refer to
any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively. (1985
Code)
2-2-41: SAFETY ZONE:
That portion of a roadway reserved for the exclusive use of pedestrians,
suitably marked or elevated. (1985 Code)
2-2-42: SCHOOL BUS:
Every motor vehicle of the second division by or for a public or governmental
agency or by or for a private religious organization solely for the
transportation of pupils in connection with school activities. (1985 Code)
2-2-43: SEMI-TRAILER:
Every vehicle without motive power for carrying persons or property and for
being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight
and that of its load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle. (1985 Code)
2-2-44: SIDEWALK:
That portion of a street between the curb line or roadway and the adjacent
property line designated for pedestrian use. (1985 Code)
2-2-45: SLICK:
A type of tire with a smooth service and no grooves or treads, primarily used
for racing purposes. (1985 Code)
2-2-46: SNOWMOBILE:
Any motor-driven vehicle utilizing either a moving track or wheels, or skis, or
combination thereof designed primarily for use upon snow and/or wet and icy
surfaces; and including all-terrain vehicles. (1985 Code)
2-2-47: SOLID TIRE:
Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not depend upon
compressed air for the support of the load. (1985 Code)
2-2-48: STOP:
When required, means complete cessation from movement. (1985 Code)
2-2-49: STOP OR STOPPING:
Means any halting even momentarily of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control sign or signal.
(1985 Code)
2-2-50: STREET OR HIGHWAY:
The entire width between property lines of every way or place of whatever
nature, when any part thereof is open to use of the public, as a matter of
right, for the purpose of vehicular traffic. Specifically, this shall include
any such width or place in a newly constructed subdivision, whether or not yet
formally accepted by the village in accordance with the requirements of chapter
7 of this code, from and after the time it is open to use of the public for the
purpose of vehicular traffic. Such use and/or the enforcement of any applicable
laws, rules, or regulations related to a street or highway shall not be
construed as evidence of acceptance of the width or place as a village street
or highway, absent compliance with the requirements of chapter 7 of this code,
and formal action by the board of trustees evidencing such acceptance. (Ord.
08-04, 2-21-2008)
2-2-51: TOW TRUCK:
Every truck designed or altered and equipped for the use to push, tow or draw
disabled vehicles by means of a crane, hoist, towbar, towline or auxiliary
axle, and to render assistance to disabled vehicles. (1985 Code)
2-2-52: TRAFFIC:
Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances whether
singly or together while using any highway for the purpose of travel. (1985
Code)
2-2-53: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL:
Any official traffic control device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternatively directed to stop and
permitted to proceed. (1985 Code)
2-2-54: TRAILER:
Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying passengers or property
and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its
weight rests upon the towing vehicle. (1985 Code)
2-2-55: TRUCK-TRACTOR:
Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other vehicles and
not so constructed as to carry any load other than a part of the weight of the
vehicle and load so drawn. (1985 Code)
2-2-56: URBAN DISTRICT:
The territory contiguous to and including any street which is built up with
structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses situated at
intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of one-fourth (1/
4) mile or more. (1985 Code)
2-2-57: VEHICLE:
Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway or requiring a certificate of title under §
3-101(d) of the Illinois Vehicle Code, except devices moved by human power,
devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and snowmobiles as
defined in the Snowmobile Registration Act. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 23-01, 2-16-
2023)
ARTICLE III
CRIMINAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
2-3-1: Assault
2-3-2: Aggravated Assault
2-3-3: Battery
2-3-4: Reckless Conduct
2-3-5: Theft Of Property Under $150.00 In Value
2-3-6: Theft Of Lost Or Mislaid Property
2-3-7: Retail Theft
2-3-8: Criminal Trespass To Land
2-3-9: Criminal Damage To Property
2-3-10: Unlawful Use Of Weapons
2-3-11: Unlawful Discharge Of A Firearm
2-3-12: Disorderly Conduct And Fighting
2-3-13: Resisting Or Obstructing A Peace Officer
2-3-14: Loitering
2-3-15: Synthetic Alternative Drugs
2-3-16: Tattooing A Minor; Minor On Premises
2-3-1: ASSAULT:
   A.   A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he engages
in conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a
battery.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
guilty of a class B misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-3-2: AGGRAVATED ASSAULT:
   A.   A person commits an aggravated assault, when, in committing an assault,
he:
      1.   Uses a deadly weapon;
      2.   Is hooded, robed or masked in such manner as to conceal his
identity;
      3.   Knows the individual assaulted to be a teacher or other person
employed in any school and such teacher or other employee is upon the grounds
of a school or grounds adjacent thereto, or is in any part of a building used
for school purposes;
      4.   Knows the individual assaulted to be a supervisor, director,
instructor or other person employed in any park district and such supervisor,
director, instructor or other employee is upon the grounds of the park or
grounds adjacent thereto, or is in any part of a building used for park
purposes;
      5.   Knows the individual assaulted to be a caseworker, investigator, or
other person employed by the state department of public aid or a county
department of public aid and such caseworker, investigator, or other person is
upon the grounds of a public aid office or grounds adjacent thereto, or is in
any part of a building used for public aid purposes, or upon the grounds of a
home of public aid applicants, recipients or any other person being interviewed
or investigated in the employee's discharge of his duties, or on grounds
adjacent thereto, or is in any part of the building in which the applicant,
recipient, or other such person resides or is located;
      6.   Knows the individual assaulted to be a peace officer, or a person
summoned and directed by him or a correctional officer, while such officer is
engaged in the execution of any of his official duties;
      7.   Knows the individual assaulted to be a fireman engaged in the
execution of any of his official duties;
      8.   Knows the individual assaulted to be the driver, operator, employee,
or passenger of any transportation facility or system engaged in the business
of transportation of the public for hire and the individual assaulted is then
performing in such capacity or then using such public transportation as a
passenger or using any area of any description designated by the transportation
facility or system as a vehicle boarding, departure, or transfer location;
      9.   Or the individual assaulted is on or about a public way, public
property, or public place of accommodation or amusement;
      10.   Knows the individual assaulted to be an employee of the state of
Illinois, a municipal corporation therein or a political subdivision thereof,
engaged in the performance of his authorized duties of such employee.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this Section shall be
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-3-3: BATTERY:
   A.   A person commits battery if he intentionally or knowingly without legal
justification and by any means, 1) causes bodily harm to an individual, or 2)
makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an individual.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this Section shall be
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-3-4: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
   A.   A person who causes bodily harm to or endangers the bodily safety of an
individual by any means, commits reckless conduct if he performs recklessly the
acts which cause the harm or endanger safety, whether they otherwise are lawful
or unlawful.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this Section shall be
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-3-5: THEFT OF PROPERTY UNDER $150.00 IN VALUE:
   A.   A person commits theft when he knowingly:
      1.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
or
      2.   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner; or
      3.   Obtains by threat control over property of the owner; or
      4.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce
him to believe that the property was stolen, and
- Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of the
property; or
- Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such manner as to
deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
- Uses, conceals, or abandons the property knowing such use, concealment or
abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of theft of property under one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) in value shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(1985 Code)
2-3-6: THEFT OF LOST OR MISLAID PROPERTY:
   A.   A person who obtains control over lost or mislaid property commits
theft when he:
      1.   Knows or learns the identity of the owner or knows, or is aware of,
or learns of a reasonable method of identifying the owner, and
      2.   Fails to take reasonable measures to restore the property to the
owner, and
      3.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this Section shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-3-7: RETAIL THEFT:
   A.   A person commits the offense of retail theft when he or she knowingly:
      1.   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers, or causes to be
carried away or transferred, any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered
for sale in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining
such merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of
the possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full
retail value of such merchandise; or
      2.   Alters, transfers, or removes any label, price tag, marking, indicia
of value or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed to any
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise personally or in
consort with another at less than the full retail value with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      3.   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which
such merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      4.   Under-rings with the intention of depriving the merchant of the full
retail value of the merchandise; or
      5.   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of such
removal with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such cart.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of retail theft of
property, the full retail value of which does not exceed one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00), shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-3-8: CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO LAND:
   A.   Whoever enters upon the land or any part thereof of another, after
receiving, immediately prior to such entry, notice from the owner or occupant
that such entry is forbidden, or remains upon the land of another after
receiving notice from the owner or occupant to depart, commits a Class B
misdemeanor.
   B.   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within the
meaning of subsection A if he has been notified personally, either orally or in
writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such entry has been
conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to such land or the
forbidden part thereof. (1985 Code)
2-3-9: CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
   A.   A person commits criminal damage to property when he engages in any of
the following acts:
      1.   Knowingly damages any property of another without his consent; or
      2.   Recklessly by means of fire or explosion damages property of
another; or
      3.   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another without his consent;
or
      4.   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without his consent;
or
      5.   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another without
his consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and thereby
intends to interfere with the use by another of the land or building; or
      6.   Knowingly damages the property of another without his consent by
defacing, deforming or otherwise damaging such property by the use of paint or
any other similar substance.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of criminal damage to property not
exceeding one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) in value shall be guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-3-10: UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS:
   A.   A person commits the offense of unlawful use of weapons when he
knowingly:
      1.   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries any bludgeon,
blackjack, sling-shot, sand-club, sand-bag, metal knuckles or any knife
commonly referred to as a switchblade, which has a blade that opens
automatically by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in
the handle of the knife; or
      2.   Carries or possesses with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, stun gun or taser or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon or instrument of like character; or
      3.   Carries on or about his person or in any vehicle, a tear gas gun
projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance; or
      4.   Carries concealed in any vehicle or concealed on or about his
person, except when on his land or in his own abode or fixed place of business,
any pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or other firearm; or
      5.   Sets a spring gun; or
      6.   Possesses any device or attachment of any kind designed, used or
intended for use in silencing the report of any firearm.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this Section shall be
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-3-11: UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF A FIREARM:
No person shall fire or discharge any BB gun or any pellet gun or any cannon,
gun, fowling piece, pistol or firearm of any description, or fire or explode or
set off any squib, firecracker, or anything containing powder or other
explosive substance, or shoot any arrow from a bow, crossbow or other such
device, or project any object by means of a sling-shot, wrist-rocket or other
such device, except after having first secured written permission given
pursuant to the applicable ordinance and State statute, and every person who
knowingly violates this Section shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. (1985
Code)
2-3-12: DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND FIGHTING:
   A.   A person commits disorderly conduct when he knowingly does any act in
such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb another and to provoke a breach
of the peace.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of disorderly conduct shall be guilty of
a Class B misdemeanor.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to instigate, cause, procure or
take part in any public or private fighting. The foregoing shall not apply to:
(1) exhibitions duly authorized by a proper school authority or a licensed
sports authority; or (2) situations otherwise permitted by law.
   D.   Any person who violates the provisions of subsection C of this section
shall be fined not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each offense. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense to which a separate
fine shall apply.
(1985 Code; amd. Ord. 24-48, 12-19-2024)
2-3-13: RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER:
A person who knowingly resists or obstructs the performance by one known to the
person to be a peace officer of any authorized act within his official capacity
commits a Class A misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-3-14: LOITERING:
   A.   Definition: The word "loiter" shall mean to be dilatory, to stand idly
around, to linger, delay, wander about, to remain, abide or tarry in a public
place.
   B.   Acts Prohibited:
      1.   Loitering:
         a.   Safety Concern: It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter so
as to warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity.
         b.   Failure To Cease Activity: It shall be unlawful for any person,
after direction by any member of the Police Department to cease such activity,
to loiter in any public place in such a manner as to impede, hinder or
interfere with the normal flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic in such
public place.
         c.   Reasonable Grounds, Duty Of Officer: For purposes of a
prosecution under this subsection, among the circumstances which may be
considered in determining whether reasonable grounds for belief have arisen
that such person is loitering is the fact that such person:
            (1)   Takes flight upon appearance of a peace officer; or
            (2)   Refuses to identify himself; or
            (3)   Manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or any object; or
            (4)   Systematically checks the means of access to buildings or
vehicles; or
            (5)   Maintains a continuous presence in close proximity to a place
when his activity manifests a high probability of unlawful activity.
         d.   Dispelling Alarm: Unless flight by the person or other
circumstances make it impractical, a peace officer shall, prior to any arrest
for an offense under this subsection, afford the person an opportunity to
dispel any alarm otherwise warranted, or explain any circumstances giving rise
to reasonable grounds for belief that such person is loitering by requesting
him to:
            (1)   Identify himself; and
            (2)   Explain his presence and conduct.
         e.   Standard For Conviction: No person shall be convicted of an
offense under this subsection if the peace officer did not comply with
subsections c and d above; or if at trial the court finds that the explanation
of presence or conduct given by the defendant was true and, if believed by the
peace officer at the time, would have dispelled any alarm or would have
disclosed a lawful purpose.
      2.   Loitering On School Grounds: It shall be unlawful to loiter on
school grounds. A person loiters on school grounds if:
         a.   At a time when the school is in session or when persons under the
age of eighteen (18) are otherwise present in the school building or on the
grounds; and
         b.   Having been asked to leave by a school administrator or his
representative or a peace officer; and
         c.   He loiters in the school building, on the school grounds, or
within one hundred feet (100') of the school grounds;
         d.   Without having any reason related to custody of or responsibility
for a pupil attending that school, or any other specific, legitimate reason for
his presence; and
         e.   Under circumstances in which his continued presence interferes
with or disrupts the school program or interferes with or endangers school
children or personnel present in the school building or on its grounds.
      3.   Loitering For The Purpose Of Engaging In Prostitution- Related
Activity:
         a.   It is unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare, or place open to the public, for the purpose of engaging in an
act of prostitution contrary to any provisions of the prostitution-related
portions of article 11 of the Illinois Criminal Code, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-14 through 5/11-19.2, as amended, or any other local, State or
Federal law prohibiting prostitution-related activity (hereinafter
"prostitution laws").
         b.   Among the circumstances which may be considered by the arresting
officer in determining whether such purpose is manifested are the following:
            (1)   Such person is a known prostitute, panderer or pimp. For
purposes of this Section, a "known prostitute", "panderer" or "pimp" is a
person who has, within the knowledge of the arresting officer, been convicted
in any court within this State of any violation of the prostitution laws or
substantially similar laws of any political subdivision of this State or of any
other state or jurisdiction within the previous year; and
            (2)   Such person repeatedly beckons to, stops, attempts to stop,
or engages in conversation with any person or motor vehicle operator by
hailing, waiving or using any other bodily gesture for the purpose of inducing,
enticing, soliciting or procuring another for purposes of committing an act of
prostitution.
            (3)   Such person repeatedly beckons to, stops, attempts to stop or
engages in conversation with any pedestrian by hailing, waiving or using any
other bodily gesture for the purpose of inducing, enticing, soliciting or
procuring another for purposes of committing an act of prostitution.
      4.   Loitering For The Purpose Of Engaging In Drug-Related Activity:
         a.   It is unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare, or place open to the public, for the purpose of engaging in
activity contrary to any of the provisions of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/1 et seq., as amended, or
the Illinois Cannabis Control Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statues 550/1 et seq.,
as amended, the or any other local, State, or Federal law prohibiting the
manufacture, distribution, delivery, use or possession of a controlled
substance (hereinafter "drug laws").
         b.   Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether such purpose is manifested are the following:
            (1)   Such person is a known unlawful drug user, possessor or
seller. For purposes of this section, a "known unlawful drug user", "possessor"
or "seller" is a person who has, within the knowledge of the arresting officer,
been convicted in any court within this state of any violation involving the
use, possession or sale of any of the substances referred to in the drug laws
within the previous year; or such person has been convicted of any of the
provisions of said drug laws or substantially similar laws of any political
subdivision of this state or of any other state or jurisdiction within the
previous year; or a person who displays physical characteristics of drug
intoxication or usage, such as "needle tracks", or a person who possesses "drug
paraphernalia" as defined in the Illinois drug paraphernalia control act, 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/1 et seq., as amended;
            (2)   Such person is currently subject to an order of court
prohibiting his or her presence in a high drug activity geographic area and
such person is located in such an area;
            (3)   Such person behaves in such a manner as to raise a reasonable
suspicion that he or she is about to engage in or is then engaged in an
unlawful drug related activity, including, but not limited to, such person
acting as a "lookout";
            (4)   Such person is a known member of a "gang" or association
which has as one of its purposes, illegal drug activity; for purposes of this
section, a known member of a "gang" is a person, who has, within the knowledge
of the arresting officer, been convicted in any court within the United States
within the previous year, of any violation involving illegal gang activity;
            (5)   Such person transfers small objects or packages for currency
in a furtive fashion;
            (6)   Such person takes flight upon the appearance of a police
officer;
            (7)   Such person manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or
herself or any object which reasonably could be involved in an unlawful drug
related activity;
            (8)   The area involved is known to be an area of unlawful drug use
and trafficking. For purposes of this section, an area "known to be an area of
unlawful drug use" is a specifically defined geographic area, designated by the
chief of police to be a known area of unlawful drug use, said designation being
based on empirical data.
      5.   Parental Responsibility For Juvenile Loitering During Specified
Nighttime Hours:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of a juvenile under the age of seventeen
(17) years to knowingly permit or allow such juvenile to loiter or to aimlessly
drive or ride about at the places and within the times prohibited by section
2-10-2 of this chapter.
         b.   The term "knowingly" includes knowledge which a parent should be
reasonably expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile in that
parent or guardian's custody.
         c.   It shall be no defense that a parent, guardian, or other person
having the care and custody of the juvenile was indifferent to the activities,
conduct or whereabouts of such juvenile.
      6.   Failure To Desist Or Disperse:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, knowingly
or recklessly fail or refuse to obey an order which:
            (1)   Is made by a peace officer while in the discharge or apparent
discharge of his duties; and
            (2)   Directs that person or a group of which that person is a
member, to desist from conduct regulated by this section, or to disperse from
an area; and
            (3)   Is given at a time when that person individually or with
others is participating in a course of conduct or is present in an area where
such conduct or presence creates, maintains or aggravates an immediate
substantial danger of damage or injury to persons or property or substantially
obstructs the performance of any governmental function.
      7.   Violation A Misdemeanor: Every person who is convicted of a
violation of this section shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor. (Ord. 94-
37, 11-17-1994)
2-3-15: SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires different meaning:
    PRODUCT CONTAINING A SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUG: Any product containing a
synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen, as those terms
are defined herein such as, but not limited to, the examples of brand names or
identifiers listed on exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein and
incorporated herein.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID: Any laboratory created compound that functions
similar to the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC),
including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material,
compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including isomers,
esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers) containing a cannabinoid receptor
agonist, such as:
JWH-007 (1-pentyl-2-methyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole)
JWH-015 ((2-Methyl-1-propyl-1H-indol-3-yl)-1- naphthalenylmethanone)
JWH-018 (1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole)
JWH-019 (1-hexyl-3-(naphthalen-1-oyl) indole)
JWH-073 (naphthalen-1-yl-(1-butylindol-3-yl) methanone)
JWH-081 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1- pentylindol-3-yl) methanone)
JWH-098 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentyl-2- methylindol-3-yl) methanone)
JWH-122 (1-Pentyl-3-(4-methyl-1-naphthoyl) indole)
JWH-164 (7-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1- pentylindol-3-yl) methanone
JWH-200 (1-(2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)indol-3-yl)- naphthalen-1-ylmethanone)
JWH-203 (2-(2-chlorophenyl)-1-(1-pentylindol-3- yl) ethanone
JWH-210 (4-ethylnaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol- 3-yl) methanone
JWH-250 (1-pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl) indole)
JWH-251 (1-pentyl-3-(2-methylphenylacetyl) indole)
JWH-398 (1-pentyl-3-(4-chloro-1-naphthoyl) indole)
HU-210 ((6aR,10aR)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6- dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a- tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-1-ol)
HU-211 ((6aS,10aS)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6- dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a- tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-1-ol)
HU-308 ([(1R,2R,5R)-2-[2,6-dimethoxy-4-(2- methyloctan-2-yl)phenyl]-7,7-
dimethyl-4- bicyclo[3.1.1]hept-3-enyl] methanol)
HU-331 ((3-hydroxy-2-[(1R,6R)-3-methyl-6-(1- methylethenyl)-2-cyclohexen-1-yl]-
5-pentyl-2,5- cyclohexadiene-1,4-dione)
CP 55,940 (2-[(1R,2R,5R)-5-hydroxy-2-(3- hydroxypropyl) cyclohexyl]- 5-(2-
methyloctan-2- yl)phenol)
CP 47,497 (2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]- 5- (2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenol) and
its homologues
WIN 55,212-2 ((R)-(+)-[2,3-Dihydro-5-methyl-3- (4-morpholinylmethyl) pyrrolo
[1,2,3-de)-1,4- benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-nepthalenylmethanone)
RCS-4 ((4-methoxyphenyl)(1-pentyl-1H-indol-3- yl) methanone)
RCS-8 (1-(1-(2-cyclohexylethyl)-1H-indol-3-yl)- 2-(2-methoxyphenyl) methanone)
   SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELIC/HALLUCINOGEN: Any compound that mimics the effects of
any federally controlled schedule I substance, including, but not limited to,
any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture,
preparation, substance and their analog (including salts, isomers, esters,
ethers and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a psychedelic/
hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system and/or brain, such as:
2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-ethylphenyl) ethanamine (2C-E);
2-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-methylphenyl) ethanamine (2C-D);
2-(4-Chloro-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-C);
2-(4-Iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-I);
2-(4-(Ethylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-T-2);
2-(4-(Isopropylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-T-4);
2-(2,5-Dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-H);
2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-nitro-phenyl) ethanamine (2C-N);
2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-(n)-propylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-P).
   SYNTHETIC STIMULANT: Any compound that mimics the effects of any federally
controlled schedule I substance such as cathinone, methcathinone, MDMA and
MDEA, including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic
material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including
salts, isomers, and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a
stimulant effect on the central nervous system, such as:
3-Fluoromethcathinone
4-Fluoromethcathinone (other name: flephedrone)
3,4-Methylenedioxymethcathinone (other name: methylone, MDMC)
3,4-Methylenedioxypyrovalerone (other name: MDPV)
4-Methylmethcathinon (other names: mephedrone, 4-MMC)
4-Methoxymethcathinone (other names: methedrone, bk-PMMA, PMMC)
4-Ethylmethcathinone (other name: 4-EMC)
Ethcathinone
Beta-keto-N-methylbenzodioxyolylpropylamine (other names: butylone, bk-MBDB)
Napthylpyrovalerone (other names: naphyrone, NRG-1)
N,N-dimethylcathinone (other name: metamfepramone)
Alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: alpha-PPP)
4-methoxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MOPPP)
3,4-methylenedioxy-alpha- pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MDPPP)
Alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone (other name: alpha-PVP)
6,7-kihydro-5H-indeno(5,6-d)-1,3-dioxal-6- amine) (other name: MDAI)
Any compound that is structurally derived from 2-amino-1-phenyl-1-propanone by
modification or substitution in any of the following ways:
In the phenyl ring to any extent with alkyl, alkoxy, alkylenedioxy, haloalkyl,
or halide substituents, whether or not further substituted in the phenyl ring
by one or more other univalent substituents;
At the 3-position with an alkyl substituent;
At the nitrogen atom with alkyl, dialkyl, benzyl, or methoxybenzyl groups;
Or by inclusion of the nitrogen atom in a cyclic structure.
   B.   Sale Or Delivery: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer
for sale or deliver any product containing a synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant
or psychedelic/hallucinogen.
   C.   Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess a
product containing a synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/
hallucinogen.
   D.   Use: It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of a
synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen.
   E.   Penalties: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall
be subject to a fine as set forth herein:
      1.   Each day that an offense is committed, or continues to be committed,
shall be considered a new and separate offense.
      2.   The court shall consider as an aggravating factor for purposes of
imposition of any penalty for conviction of an offense committed under this
section, the following:
         a.   That the sale or delivery, possession or use occurred on the real
property comprising any school, or any conveyance owned, leased or contracted
by a school to transport students to or from school or a school related
activity, or on any public way within one thousand feet (1,000') of the real
property comprising any school or of any conveyance owned, leased or contracted
by a school to transport students to or from school or a school related
activity;
         b.   That the sale or delivery was by a person who is at least
eighteen (18) years of age to any person under eighteen (18) years of age and
who is at least three (3) years his junior;
         c.   Any other pertinent factor or circumstance.
      3.   Upon conviction of an offense under this section, the court shall
impose a penalty or penalties as follows:
         a.   For a conviction of sale or delivery under subsection B of this
section, a fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation.
         b.   For a conviction of possession under subsection C of this
section, or a conviction of use under subsection D of this section, a fine of
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. (Ord. 11-24, 11-3-2011)
2-3-16: TATTOOING A MINOR; MINOR ON PREMISES:
   A.   A person, other than a person licensed to practice medicine in all its
branches, commits the offense of tattooing the body of a minor when he or she
knowingly or recklessly tattoos or offers to tattoo a person under the age of
eighteen (18).
      1.   For purposes of this section, "tattoo" means to insert pigment under
the surface of the skin of a human being, by pricking with a needle or
otherwise, so as to produce an indelible mark or figure visible through the
skin.
      2.   This subsection A does not apply to a person under eighteen (18)
years of age who tattoos or offers to tattoo another person under eighteen (18)
years of age away from the premises of any business at which tattooing is
performed.
   B.   A person who is an owner or employee of a business that performs
tattooing, other than a person licensed to practice medicine in all its
branches, may not permit a person under eighteen (18) years of age to enter or
remain on the premises where tattooing is being performed unless the person
under eighteen (18) years of age is accompanied by his or her parent or legal
guardian.
   C.   Every person convicted of a violation of this section shall be guilty
of a class A misdemeanor. (Ord. 14-20, 5-1-2014)
ARTICLE IV
VEHICLE CODE
SECTION:
2-4-1: Adoption Of Illinois Vehicle Code
2-4-2: Miscellaneous Traffic Regulations
2-4-3: Use Of Mechanical Exhaust Device For Braking Prohibited
2-4-4: Motor Driven Scooters
2-4-5: Towing And Impoundment Of Motor Vehicles Used In Connection With Illegal
Activities
2-4-1: ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE:
   A.   There is hereby adopted by the village as its vehicle code the
provisions of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq.
   B.   Subject to provisions of the vehicle code, the village may in its
discretion prosecute as a local ordinance charge any citation brought against
any person pursuant to the vehicle code, specifically including, but not
limited to, the following offenses:
5/11-501
5/11-501.01
5/11-501.1
5/11-501.2
5/11-501.4
5/11-501.4-1
5/11-501.6
5/11-501.7
   C.   The burden of proof for any such offenses classified as a "misdemeanor"
under the Illinois vehicle code shall be "beyond a reasonable doubt", and for
any offense classified as either a "petty" offense or a "business" offense
under the Illinois vehicle code or otherwise shall be "by a preponderance of
the evidence".
   D.   Penalties shall be imposed as prescribed in article XVI of this
chapter. (Ord. 14-26, 6-5-2014)
2-4-2: MISCELLANEOUS TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
In supplement to the adoption of the Illinois vehicle code, the following
existing miscellaneous traffic regulations of the village are hereby readopted,
and shall remain in full force and effect unless otherwise amended or repealed
by future ordinance, and shall be renumbered and referred to as follows:
Section 2-4-2/11-601: No person may drive any vehicle upon the following
highway(s) or streets at a speed which is greater than specified herein:
 
Kelly Road                                                   35 miles per hour
State Street (Southbound between Town Place Road and Jackson 25 miles per hour
Avenue)
Widmayer Road                                                45 miles per hour
 
Section 2-4-2/11-604: Altered Speed Zones: There is hereby established a school
entrance speed zone on Ketchum Road, in general between its intersection with
Big Timber Road on the north and a distance beyond the southern boundary of the
property owned by school district 300 on the south, and specifically as
indicated by appropriate signage where posted on said roadway, and vehicles
traveling northbound and southbound on Ketchum Road within said school entrance
zone shall not exceed thirty (30) miles per hour.
Section 2-4-2/11-605: The following thoroughfares be and hereby are established
as school zones, and no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess
of twenty (20) miles per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling
upon any public thoroughfare where children pass going to and from school,
under conditions described in section 11-605 of the Illinois motor vehicle
code:
   Hampshire Elementary School:
      West Edgewood Street, from State Street to Klick Street.
      West Terwilliger Street, from State Street to Klick Street.
   Hampshire High School:
      South State Street, from Grove Avenue to Timber Lane.
   St. Charles Borromeo Grade School:
      Walnut Street, from East Washington Street to East Jefferson Street.
      Warner Street, from East Washington Street to a point 525 feet south on
Warner Street.
   East Washington Street, from a point 582 feet west of the intersection with
Warner Street to a point 362 feet east of the intersection with Warner Street.
   East Jefferson Street, from a point 700 feet west of the intersection with
Warner Street to a point 263 feet east of the intersection with Warner Street.
Section 2-4-2/11-605.3: The following streets or highways are hereby
established as park zone streets, and no person shall drive a motor vehicle at
a speed in excess of twenty (20) miles per hour, on any day when children are
present and within fifty feet (50') of motorized traffic, while traveling on
the following park zone street(s):
   Kelly Road, from a point one thousand, three hundred thirteen feet (1,313')
east of the intersection of Harmony Road and Kelly Road to Marney Drive.
Section 2-4-2/11-707(b): No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center
of the roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction on the following roadways and within the area designated:
South State Street (also known as Getzelman Road), from State Route 72 (Oak
Knoll Drive) to the village limits, in both directions.
The pertinent area described in this section shall be posted at the beginning
and end of the no-passing zone with appropriate signs, and the pavement shall
be marked with appropriate striping throughout such no-passing zone.
Section 2-4-2/11-707(e): No vehicle shall be driven on the left-hand side of
the roadway at the following locations in the village:
East Washington Street, between State Street and Elm Street, in both
directions.
State Street, from Jackson Street to the Hampshire Creek Tributary Bridge, in
both directions.
The prohibition of this subsection (e) shall include any turning movement over
or across the left hand side of the road, or the oncoming lane of traffic, for
any purpose, including but not limited to a U-turn, or J-turn, to enter into
any parking space on the side of the street opposite the lane of traffic in
which a vehicle is traveling at the time such turning movement is commenced.
The village shall post an appropriate sign or signs at such locations, and
shall stripe the roadway pavement with double yellow lines at the locations
described above.
Section 2-4-2/11-802(c): No such turn shall be made upon the designated
portions of the following village streets:
East Jefferson Avenue between State Street and Elm Street.
East Washington Avenue between State Street and Ash Street.
South State Street between Jackson Avenue and Rinn Avenue.
Section 2-4-2/11-802(d): No vehicle shall be turned so as to cross the center
of the roadway and change the direction of the vehicle by parking or stopping
on the opposite side of the roadway.
Section 2-4-2/11-901(c): The driver of a vehicle shall stop at the entrance to
a through street and shall yield the right of way to other vehicles which have
entered the intersection or which are approaching so close on a through street
as to constitute an immediate hazard, unless directed otherwise by a traffic
officer or a traffic control signal.
Section 2-4-2/11-901(d): The following streets are designated through streets
in the village:
Allen Road from the easterly village limits to the westerly village limits.
East Washington Avenue from State Street to the easterly village limits.
Edgewood Avenue from Klick Street to State Street.
Jackson Avenue from westerly village limits to State Street, and from State
Street easterly to Warner Street.
Jefferson Avenue from westerly village limits to State Street, and from State
Street easterly to Warner Street.
Mill Street from westerly village limits to State Street.
Oak Knoll Drive from the westerly village limits to the easterly village
limits.
Rinn Avenue from the westerly village limits to State Street.
State Street from Allen Road to Oak Knoll Drive.
Terwilliger from the westerly village limits to State Street.
Section 2-4-2/11-904: Stop Intersections:
   A.   The corporate authorities may from time to time designate certain
intersections in the village as stop intersections, and shall indicate same by
posting an appropriate stop sign thereat.
   B.   Every driver approaching any stop intersection indicated by a stop sign
shall stop, and shall thereafter proceed, in accordance with the requirements
specified in section 11-904 of the Illinois vehicle code.
Section 2-4-2/11-904(e): The following intersections shall be designated as
stop intersections, and all vehicles being operated in either direction, or if
a direction is stated, then in the direction so specified, on the first named
street below must stop at the intersection described before crossing or
entering the second named street:
Bennington Lane, northbound, at Sunriver Court.
Bennington Lane, southband, at Dawn’s End.
Bluestem Lane, northbound, at Sawgrass Lane.
Bluestem Lane, southbound, at Hampshire Drive.
Campion Drive, eastbound, at Jessamine Lane.
Campion Drive, westbound, at Jessamine Lane.
Centennial Boulevard, northbound, at Panama Street.
Centennial Drive, northbound, at Jake Lane.
Centennial Drive, southbound, at Hillcrest Avenue.
Centennial Drive, southbound, at Jake Lane.
Century Drive, westbound, at Johnson Street.
Channing Street, westbound, at Johnson Street.
Clearwater Drive, eastbound, at Wild Prairie Pointe.
Clearwater Drive, westbound, at Larkspur Drive.
Clover Circle, southbound, at Hampshire Drive.
Clover Circle, westbound, at Bluestem Lane.
Coyote Court, eastbound, at Pheasant Trail.
Coyote Trail, eastbound, at Oak Hill Lane.
Coyote Trail, westbound, at Pheasant Court.
Da Vinci Drive, at Tuscany Trail.
Dawn’s End, eastbound, at Wild Prairie Pointe.
Dawn’s End, westbound, at Larkspur Drive.
Dawn’s End, westbound, at Wild Prairie Pointe.
Edgewood Avenue, westbound, at Klick Street.
Elm Street, at Grove Street.
Elm Street, at Jefferson Street.
Elm Street, at Panama Street.
Elm Street, northbound, at Washington Avenue.
Fieldstone Lane, eastbound, at Woodside Terrace.
Fox Run Lane, at Prairieview Parkway.
Fox Run Lane, northbound, at Whitetail Circle.
Fox Run Lane, southbound, at Whitetail Circle (northern intersection).
Fox Run Lane, southbound, at Whitetail Circle (southern intersection).
Grace Place, northbound, at Washington Avenue.
Grace Place, southbound, at Jefferson Avenue.
Grove Street, at Madison Avenue.
Hampshire Drive, eastbound, at Prairieview Parkway.
Hampshire Drive, northbound, at Whitetail Circle.
Hampshire Drive, westbound, at Prairieview Parkway.
High Avenue, at Elm Street.
Highland Avenue, at Warner Street, and at Centennial Drive.
Hillcrest Avenue, at Elm Street.
Hillcrest Avenue, at Warner Street, and at Centennial Drive.
Jack Dylan Drive, eastbound, at Getzelman Road.
Jack Dylan Drive, westbound, at Schmidt Drive.
Jackson Avenue, at Warner Street.
Jake Lane, at Elm Street.
Jake Lane, at Warner Street.
Jefferson Avenue, at Warner Street.
Johnson Street, southbound, at Century Drive.
Johnson Street, southbound, at White Oak Street.
Julie Lane, at Elm Street.
Julie Lane, at Warner Street.
Kelley Road, eastbound, at Wild Prairie Pointe.
Kelly Road, westbound, at Wild Prairie Pointe.
Klick Street, southbound, at Edgewood.
Larkspur Drive, eastbound, at Wild Prairie Pointe.
Madison Avenue, at East Jefferson Avenue.
Madison Avenue, southbound, at South Street.
Maple Place, northbound, at Washington Street.
Maple Place, southbound, at Jefferson Street.
Oak Hill Lane, eastbound, at Getzelman Road.
Oak Hill Lane, southbound, at Pheasant Trail.
Oak Street, at West Jackson Avenue.
Oak Street, northbound, at Rinn Avenue.
Old Mill Lane, at Warner Street.
Old Mill Lane, eastbound, at Centennial Drive.
Old Oak Court, southbound, at Oak Hill Lane.
Panama Avenue, at Warner Street.
Panama Street, eastbound, at Centennial Boulevard.
Panama Street, northbound, at White Oak Street.
Panama Street, westbound, at Centennial Boulevard.
Park Street, at West Jackson Avenue.
Pheasant Trail, eastbound, at Getzelman Road.
Prairie Street, at Terwilliger Avenue.
Prairieview Parkway, at Terwilliger Avenue, and at Route 72.
Prairieview Parkway, at Whitetail Circle (southern intersection).
Sawgrass Lane, northbound, at Woodside Terrace.
Smith Drive, northbound, at South Street.
Smith Drive, southbound, at Panama.
South Street, at Elm Street.
South Street, eastbound, at Smith Drive.
State Street, northbound, at Route 72.
Sunriver Court, eastbound, at Bennington Lane.
Sunriver Court, eastbound, at Dawn’s End.
Terwilliger Avenue, at Prairie Street.
Tuscany Trail, at Da Vinci Drive.
Warner Street, at Jake Lane.
Warner Street, at Jefferson Avenue.
Whitetail Circle, at Prairieview Parkway.
Whitetail Circle, westbound, at Prairieview Parkway.
Wild Prairie Pointe, northbound, at Campion Drive.
Wild Prairie Pointe, northbound, at Dawn’s End.
Wild Prairie Pointe, northbound, at Larkspur Drive.
Wild Prairie Pointe, southbound, at Campion Drive.
Wild Prairie Pointe, southbound, at Dawn’s End.
Wild Prairie Pointe, southbound, at Larkspur Drive.
Wild Sienna, eastbound, at Wild Prairie Pointe.
Wild Sienna, westbound, at Larkspur Drive.
Woodside Terrace, eastbound, at Prairieview Parkway.
Section 2-4-2/11-906: Vehicles entering highway from private road or driveway:
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an
alley, building, private road or driveway shall yield the right of way to all
vehicles approaching on the highway to be entered.
   (b)   The driver of any bus shall not enter onto Klick Street from the
semicircle driveway serving the Hampshire Elementary School and located on the
north side of said school. Exit from said driveway shall be made at the eastern
exit of said driveway and onto Terwilliger Avenue only.
Section 2-4-2/11-1504(a): Clinging To Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any
person on any street riding a bicycle, motorcycle or any toy vehicle to cling
or attach himself or his vehicle to any moving motor vehicle.
Section 2-4-2/15-102(e): The provisions of this subsection (e) shall apply
within the village to all vehicles being operated on any street or highway from
time to time designated by the municipal authorities as a class II highway
within the village, as set forth in section 2-4-2/15-111(k) of this article.
Section 2-4-2/15-107(e): The provisions of this subsection (e) shall apply
within the village to all vehicles being operated on any street or highway from
time to time designated by the municipal authorities as a class II highway
within the village, as set forth in section 2-4-2/15-111(k) of this article.
Section 2-4-2/15-111(g): The provisions of this subsection (g) shall apply
within the village to all vehicles being operated on any street or highway from
time to time designated by the municipal authorities as a class II highway
within the village, as set forth in section 2-4-2/15-111(k) of this article.
Section 2-4-2/15-111(k): The following local streets and highways within the
boundaries of the Village are designated as Class II highways for purposes of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, and upon which vehicles may be operated subject to
the maximum width requirement of Section 2-4-2/15-102(e), the maximum length
requirements of Section 2-4-2/15-107 (e), and the maximum wheel and axle loads
and gross weights of Section 2-4-2/15-111(g) of the Illinois Vehicle Code, and
as adopted by the Village and incorporated into the Village vehicle
regulations:
   Arrowhead Drive, from US Highway 20 to its easterly terminus
   Arrowhead Court, from Arrowhead Drive to its northwesterly terminus
   Dietrich Road, from US Highway 20 east to the corporate limits
   Elgiloy Drive, from Hauk Road to its northwesterly terminus
   Flannigan Road, from Gast Road to its northerly terminus
   Gast Road, from US Highway 20 to Flannigan Road
   Hauk Road, from a point 60 feet more or less south of Elgiloy Drive to its
northern terminus
   Industrial Drive, from Keyes Avenue to its eastern terminus
   Keyes Avenue, from State Street to its eastern terminus
   Melms Road, from Harmony Road west to the corporate limits
   Rowell Road, from Industrial Drive to Allen Road
   Stanley Drive, from Keyes Avenue to its north terminus
   Tang Boulevard, from U.S. Highway 20 to Elgiloy Drive
Section 2-4-2/15-316(e): It shall be unlawful to drive any truck, except for
the purpose of making a delivery, and then for one block only, on any street so
designated by ordinance properly posted by sign. Any person who is convicted of
a violation of this section shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
Section 2-4-2/15-316(f): Notwithstanding any provisions of this vehicle code,
or the load limitations specified herein for primary, arterial, and residential
streets, and any lower limits that are imposed by ordinance and signs
indicating such limitations pursuant to this paragraph, it shall be unlawful to
operate a vehicle in excess of such weight in such street, except for the
purpose of making delivery or picking up a load and for driving upon such
street for not more than the minimum distance necessary for such purpose. Any
person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor.
Section 2-4-2/15-101, 15-111 and 15-316: Overweight Vehicles Prohibited:
   A.    As provided under the authority of Sections 15-101, 15-111 and 15-316
of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/15-101; 15-111 and 15-316). it shall
be unlawful to operate any vehicle upon any street or roadway within the
village where the operation of that vehicle is prohibited by ordinance and
where signs of such prohibition are posted. Vehicles operating under the
authority of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-100, et seq.) while using
village streets or roadways under "reasonable access" rules will be considered
in violation of this section if they are not using the most direct route to
points of loading and unloading.
   B.   The following streets or roadways are restricted to a weight limit of
13 tons (26.000 pounds) as determined by either Registered Weight, Gross
Vehicle Weight Rating (GVWR). Gross Combination Vehicle Weight Rating (GCWR) or
actual weight:
      State Street from Route 72 to Keyes Avenue.
      The following streets located in Lakewood Crossing Subdivision:
         Ridgecrest Drive.
         Carlisle Lane.
         Hearthstone Drive.
         Justin Lane.
         Bristol Drive.
         Ross Street.
         Cameron Drive.
         Cesario Drive.
         Rockport Road.
         Fallbrook Drive.
         Hennig Road.
   C.   Signs: The village shall post signs designating the foregoing streets
or roadwavs as restricted weight routes at the entrances of said streets or
roadways.
   D.   Penalty:
      1.   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the weight
limitations set forth herein and cited under Section 15-111 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/15-111), any person, firm or corporation convicted of
such violation shall be fined in accordance with the provisions of Section 15-
113 of the Illinois Vehicle Code {'{'}625 ILCS 5/15-113) in effect as of the
date of the such violation.
      2.   For any violation set forth and cited under Section 15-316 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/15-316), any person, firm or corporation
convicted of such violation shall be fined in accordance with the provisions of
Section 15-316 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/15-316) in effect as of
the date of the such violation.
      3.   In addition to seeking a fine, as herein above provided, the village
may institute any proper action in the name of the village to enjoin the
violation of any provision of this section or to collect any damages allowed by
law as of the date of the underlying violation.
      4.   Whenever any vehicle or combination of vehicles is operated in
violation of this section, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed
guilty of such violation and either the owner or driver of such vehicle may be
prosecuted for such violation.
(Ord. 87-2, 3-19-1987; amd. Ord. 87-12, 8-20-1987; Ord. 87-19, 10-15-1987; Ord.
87-20, 10-15-1987; Ord. 89-3, 3-16-1989; Ord. 93-11, 7-15-1993; Ord. 94-26, 8-
11-1994; Ord. 96-9, 5-16-1996; Ord. 96-22, 9-19-1996; Ord. 98-13, 7-16-1998;
Ord. 98-30, 11-4-1998; Ord. 99-5, 4-15-1999; Ord. 01-08, 5-17-2001; Ord. 01-23,
8-2-2001; Ord. 01-32, 9-20-2001; Ord. 01-36, 10-18-2001; Ord. 02-01, 2-7-2002;
Ord. 02-20, 7-18-2002; Ord. 02-40, 10-17-2002; Ord. 02-41, 11-21-2002; Ord. 03-
25, 8-21-2003; Ord. 03-27, 8-21-2003; Ord. 12-17, 6-7-2012; Ord. 14-33, 10-16-
2014; Ord. 15-43, 11-19-2015; Ord. 15-44, 11-19-2015; Ord. 15-42, 12-17-2015;
Ord. 16-21, 7-21-2016; Ord. 21-14, 4-15-2021; Ord. 24-24, 8-1-2024; Ord. 24-38,
10-3-2024; Ord. 25-05, 2-6-2025)
2-4-3: USE OF MECHANICAL EXHAUST DEVICE FOR BRAKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall operate, or cause to be used or operated, within the
village any mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or
deceleration of any vehicle by converting engine power to compressed air.
   B.   It shall be an affirmative defense that the person operating, or
causing to be used or operated, such mechanical exhaust device in circumstances
where it was necessary to avoid injury or an accident.
   C.   Any person violating the terms and provisions of this section shall be
subject to penalties as provided in section
12-1-3 of this code. (Ord. 00-34, 9-21-2000)
2-4-4: MOTOR DRIVEN SCOOTERS:
   A.   No person shall operate a "motor driven cycle or scooter", as defined
in section
2-2-21 of this chapter, upon any public street, sidewalk, alleyway, parking
lot, bike path, park, or any other public property.
   B.   No person shall cause, authorize or knowingly permit a "motor driven
cycle or scooter," as defined in section
2-2-21 of this chapter, owned by him or under his control, to be operated in
violation of the provisions of subsection A of this section by any person.
   C.   No parent or guardian shall cause, authorize or knowingly permit a
"motor driven cycle or scooter," as defined in section
2-2-21 of this chapter, owned by him or under his control, to be operated in
violation of the provisions of subsection A of this section by a minor child or
ward under his direct control.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the following types
of vehicles:
      1.   Electric personal assistive mobility devices, as defined in section
5/1-117.7 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 1.
      2.   Any police, fire, municipal, special district, county or forest
preserve district vehicle operated by an employee of such entity in the course
of his or her official duties.
      3.   "Motorized wheelchairs," as defined in section 5/1-148.3 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code 1 .
      4.   Motor driven scooters capable of traveling at a speed not greater
than ten (10) miles per hour.
   E.   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be subject
to a fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00), and not more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), for each offense. (Ord. 04-40, 9-9-2004;
amd. Ord. 21-38, 10-7-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
2-4-5: TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES USED IN CONNECTION WITH ILLEGAL
ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Seizure; Impoundment: A motor vehicle, operated with the permission,
express or implied, of the registered owner that is used in connection with or
involved in the commission of any of the following violations shall be subject
to tow from any public street, public place, or private property, and
impoundment by the village, provided that the subsection headings below are for
general reference only, and shall not be deemed to be any limitation on the
authority granted herein in accordance with specific references to a state law
or laws:
      1.   DUI: Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs,
an intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation
of section 11-501 of the Illinois vehicle code; or
      2.   DWLS - DWLR: Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege
to operate a motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to section 6-303 of
the vehicle code; except that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or
impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or
due to failure to comply with emission testing; or
      3.   Expired DL: Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired
driver's license, in violation of section 6-101 of the vehicle code, if the
period of expiration is greater than one year; or
      4.   DL Never Issued: Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever
having been issued a driver's license or permit, in violation of section 6-101
of the vehicle code, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been
issued a driver's license or permit due to a person's age; or
      5.   FTA - Warrant Outstanding: Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a
person against whom a warrant has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois
for failing to answer charges that the driver violated section 6-101, 6-303, or
11-501 of the vehicle code; or
      6.   Felony: Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or
in the attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the cannabis control act;
or
      7.   Cannabis: Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting,
possessing, or attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled
substance, as defined by the cannabis control act or the Illinois controlled
substances act; or
      8.   Controlled Substances: Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the
commission of, or in the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the
Illinois controlled substances act; or
      9.   UUW: Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of section 24-1, 24-1.5, or 24-
3.1 of the criminal code of 1961; or
      10.   Theft: Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or
in the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of article 16 or 16A of the
criminal code of 1961; or
      11.   Section 36-1 Offense: Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the
commission of, or in the attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor
vehicle may be seized and forfeited pursuant to section 36-1 of the criminal
code of 1961; or
      12.   Other Misdemeanor; Felony: Operation or use of a motor vehicle in
the commission of, or in the attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony
offense in violation of the criminal code of 1961, when so provided by village
ordinance and added to this section.
   B.   Administrative Processing Fee: The owner of record of such vehicle
shall be liable to the village for an administrative processing fee of not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), in addition to any towing and storage
fees which result from the tow and impoundment of the vehicle.
   C.   General Regulations:
      1.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a vehicle which
was stolen at the time of towing and impoundment, provided that the theft of
the vehicle had been reported to appropriate police authorities within twenty
four (24) hours of discovery of the theft and provided further, that verifiable
proof of the theft of the vehicle is timely presented to the village in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      2.   The registered owner of the vehicle shall be subject to all fees set
forth in this section in addition to any penalties that may be assessed by a
court of law for the underlying violations.
      3.   The provisions of this section shall not replace or otherwise
abrogate any existing state or federal laws or village ordinances pertaining to
seizure, towing and impoundment of vehicles.
      4.   Fees for towing and storage of a vehicle under this section shall be
those approved from time to time by the board of trustees.
      5.   For purposes of this section, the "registered owner" shall be that
person shown to be the owner of the vehicle in question on the records of the
Illinois secretary of state at the time of tow; or in the case of any vehicle
registered in any other state, shown on the vehicle registration for the
vehicle in question.
   D.   Probable Cause And Notice:
      1.   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to tow and impoundment pursuant to this section the officer
shall, after issuing applicable citations to the driver or operator of the
motor vehicle, order the towing of the vehicle to a facility authorized by the
chief of police, and its impoundment there subject to the provisions of this
section. Provided, in cases where the vehicle has been involved in the
commission of a felony, under subsection A of this section, the tow may take
place prior to the preparation and service of appropriate felony complaints.
      2.   At the time of the tow, the police officer shall give written notice
to the operator or person found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation that the vehicle will be towed and impounded, and of the
right to a hearing pursuant to this section.
      3.   If the registered owner of the motor vehicle is not present at the
time of the tow, the village police department shall within ten (10) days of
the towing and impoundment deliver notice of the tow and impoundment of said
vehicle, and of the time, date and location of the administrative hearing
required pursuant to this section, to the registered owner of the vehicle, by
personal service or by first class mail at the registered owner's address per
the records of the Illinois secretary of state; or in the case of a vehicle
registered with any other state, shown on the vehicle registration for the
vehicle in question.
      4.   An owner may secure release of an impounded vehicle pending
completion of the preliminary hearing provided for in subsection E of this
section or the hearing provided for in subsection F of this section by posting
a bond of cash, money order, or certified check with the village police
department in the amount of tow penalty due plus all applicable towing charges
plus any accrued impoundment charges as of the time of posting.
      5.   The village police department shall hold any funds posted as such
bond in escrow until such time as all hearings have been completed in
conformance with this section.
   E.   Preliminary Review: Whenever the village tows and impounds a motor
vehicle, the owner thereof may request a preliminary hearing within one day of
the day of the tow.
      1.   Such request shall be made to the village attorney (or his
designee), who shall conduct a preliminary review within twenty four (24) hours
of the request.
      2.   The hearing may be conducted by telephone or in person, and all
interested parties will be given an opportunity to be heard. The formal rules
of evidence shall not apply.
      3.   If after such preliminary review, the village attorney (or his
designee) believes that there is probable cause for towing the vehicle, he
shall order the continued impoundment of the vehicle, subject to payment of the
amounts due, or in the alternative, posting of the bond described in this
section.
      4.   If the village attorney (or his designee) determines that there is
no such probable cause, the motor vehicle shall be returned to the registered
owner without payment of the administrative processing fee, the tow charges, or
any storage or other fees.
      5.   For purposes of this subsection, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays
shall not be included when computing time.
   F.   Administrative Hearing:
      1.   Hearing Officer: An administrative hearing shall be conducted by a
qualified hearing officer appointed by the village president with the advice
and consent of the board of trustees.
      2.   Scheduling Of Hearing: The hearing shall be conducted within forty
five (45) days of mailing or service of the original notice of hearing to or on
the registered owner, unless the parties mutually agree to another date.
      3.   Rules Of Hearing: The hearing shall be subject to the following
rules:
         a.   At any time prior to the hearing the hearing officer may, at the
request of the village or the owner, issue a subpoena to any witness to appear
and give testimony at the hearing.
         b.   The formal rules of evidence shall not apply at the hearing.
         c.   Hearsay testimony shall be admissible only if such testimony is
of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of
their affairs.
         d.   The signed report of the arresting officer, and the reports of
any other officers involved in the incident which resulted in towing the
vehicle, shall be admissible.
         e.   The hearing officer shall make a record of the proceedings by
audio recording or other reliable means.
      4.   Outcome Of Hearing:
         a.   If, after the hearing, the hearing officer determines by a
preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle was used in connection with a
violation set forth in this section, the hearing officer shall enter an order
finding the owner of the vehicle civilly liable to the village for an
administrative fee, plus the towing and impoundment charges. If bond has been
posted in accordance with the requirements of this section, the village shall
apply the bond to the administrative fee and all towing and impoundment charges
due.
         b.   If, after the hearing, the hearing officer enters an order
finding the owner of record liable to the village for the administrative fee
and the towing and impoundment charges, any vehicle then remaining impounded
shall continue to be impounded until the owner pays the administrative fee to
the village, plus all applicable towing and impoundment charges to the tow
operator.
         c.   If the owner of record fails to appear at the hearing, the
hearing officer shall enter a default order in favor of the village.
         d.   If the hearing officer finds by a preponderance of the evidence
that the vehicle was not used in connection with an offense set forth in this
section, the hearing officer shall order the immediate return of the vehicle to
the owner, without payment of the administrative processing fee and the towing
or impoundment fees. Any cash bond on deposit shall also be ordered to be
returned to the owner.
         e.   The order of the hearing officer shall be final, and is subject
to review in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois administrative
review law.
   G.   Debt To Village:
      1.   The administrative processing fee due from the owner of any such
vehicle shall constitute a debt due and owing to the village. The debt may be
satisfied by the bond posted pursuant to this section; or where no bond is
posted, by cash, money order, or certified check.
         a.   If the administrative processing fee, and the applicable towing
and impoundment fees, are not paid within thirty (30) days after the
administrative fee is imposed against the owner of record who defaults by
failing to appear at the hearing, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and may
be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of any
unclaimed vehicle under the Illinois vehicle code.
         b.   In all other cases, if the administrative processing fee and
applicable towing and impoundment fees are not paid within thirty five (35)
days after the expiration of time for administrative review of the hearing
officer's determination, or within thirty five (35) days after an action
seeking administrative review has been finally resolved in favor of the
village, whichever is applicable, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed, and
abandoned, and shall be disposed of in the manner provided for under the
Illinois vehicle code.
   H.   Vehicle Possession; Owner Or Lienholder:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided by law, no owner, lienholder, or other
person shall be legally entitled to take possession of a vehicle impounded
under this section until the administrative fee, and the towing and impoundment
fees, have been paid in full, or in the alternative, bond has been posted for
same.
      2.   Whenever a person with a lien of record against an impounded vehicle
has commenced foreclosure proceedings, possession of the vehicle shall be
delivered to such person if she or he agrees, in writing, to pay over to the
village from the amount of proceeds resulting from any foreclosure sale, the
applicable administrative fee, towing and impoundment charges, and any amounts
required to be paid to any other lienholders of record. (Ord. 12-23, 11-1-2012)
ARTICLE V
PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
2-5-1: Definitions
2-5-2: Responsibility For Damage To Property
2-5-3: Prohibitions As To Weapons And Dangerous Instruments
2-5-4: Prohibitions As To Illegal Drugs And Illegal Drug Paraphernalia
2-5-5: Prohibitions As To Alcoholic Liquor
2-5-6: Prohibitions As To Stolen Property
2-5-7: Improper Supervision Of Minors
2-5-8: Penalty
2-5-9: Severability
2-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Article, the following terms shall have the meanings recited in
this Section:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: As defined according to the Illinois Liquor Control Act, 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1.305.
GANG RELATED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY OR STREET GANG RELATED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Any
criminal activity, enterprise, pursuit, or undertaking directed by, ordered by,
authorized by, consented to, agreed to, requested by, acquiesced in, or
ratified by any gang leader, officer, or governing or policy-making person or
authority, or by any agent, representative, or deputy of any such officer,
person or authority, and/or participated in by any gang member or other person:
   A.   With the intent to increase the gang's size, membership, prestige,
dominance, or control in any geographical area; or
   B.   With the intent to provide the gang with any advantage in, or any
control over or part in any criminal activity, including but not limited to,
the manufacture, delivery, or sale of controlled substances or cannabis; arson
or arson-for-hire; traffic in stolen property or stolen credit cards; and/or
traffic in prostitution, obscenity, or pornography; or
   C.   With the intent to exact revenge or retribution for the gang or any
member of the gang; or
   D.   With the intent to obstruct justice, or intimidate or eliminate any
witness against the gang or any member of the gang; or
   E.   With the intent to otherwise directly or indirectly cause any benefit,
aggrandizement, gain, profit or other advantage whatsoever to or for the gang,
its reputation, influence, or membership; or
   F.   That involves robbery, burglary, or theft.
For purposes of this Article, "gang" or "street gang" shall mean any
combination, confederation, conspiracy, or other similar conjoining of three
(3) or more persons with an established hierarchy that, through its membership
or through the agency of any member engages in a course of criminal activity.
It shall not be necessary to show that a particular combination, conspiracy, or
conjoining of persons possesses, acknowledges or is known by any signal, code,
belief, insignia, name, or otherwise, when the conspiracy's existence may be
demonstrated by a preponderance of other competent evidence; and any evidence
tending to demonstrate the existence in any combination, confederation,
conspiracy, or conjoining described herein, or probative of the existence of
such combination, conspiracy, confederation or conjoining shall be admissible
in any action or proceeding brought under this Article.
ILLEGAL DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: Any of the equipment, products or materials
referred to and identified in the provisions of the Illinois Drug Paraphernalia
Control Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/1 et seq., as amended.
ILLEGAL DRUGS: Any of the drugs or substances referred to and identified in the
provisions of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 570/100 et seq., as amended, and the Illinois Cannabis Control Act,
720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq., as amended, or any other local,
State or Federal law prohibiting the manufacture, distribution, delivery, use
or possession of a controlled substance.
KNOWINGLY: Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
ground for belief which warrants further inquiry or inspection.
LEGAL GUARDIAN: Includes a person appointed as guardian or given custody of a
minor by a circuit court of this State or similar county in any other state;
but does not include a person appointed as guardian or given custody of a minor
under the Illinois Juvenile Court Act.
MINOR: A natural person who has not yet reached eighteen (18) years of age.
PARENTS: Includes the lawful father or mother of an unemancipated minor,
whether by birth or adoption.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
or organization of any kind, the State of Illinois, or any governmental unit.
RECKLESSLY: Acting in a manner or under circumstances such as evince disregard
of, or indifference to, consequences involving danger to the property, life, or
safety of others.
UNSUPERVISED: A lack of visual or oral oversight coupled with lack of
sufficient proximity to obtain immediate control over the item or minor.
WILFUL: Proceedings from conscious and voluntary intentional motion of the
will. (Ord. 96-36, 12-19-1996)
2-5-2: RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
   A.   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with
such parent or legal guardian shall be liable for actual damages arising from
the knowing, wilful, reckless or malicious act or acts of such minor which
cause injury to a person or property.
   B.   Whenever such a minor is charged with a violation of law or ordinance,
which has resulted in injury to a person or property of another and which
charge shall require said minor's appearance in court, then his or her parent,
parents or legal guardian shall be notified in writing by personal service, or
by U.S. mail, certified, return receipt requested, by the Village Police
Department that he, she or they shall be required to appear in court, together
with said minor, at the same time, date and place.
   C.   A minor, his parent or parents, or legal guardian, shall make
restitution to any injured or damaged party or parties, in an amount as ordered
by the Court. It is the intent of this Section to provide that minors, parents
and guardians shall be responsible individually and jointly.
   D.   No order of restitution under this Section shall exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) actual damages for each person for each occurrence causing
the injury, in addition to taxable court costs, or the maximum amount otherwise
allowed by State law, whichever is greater. In determining the actual damages
to be allowed under this Section, only medical, dental, nursing and hospital
expenses, and actual property damage, shall be considered. (Ord. 96-36, 12-19-
1996)
2-5-3: PROHIBITIONS AS TO WEAPONS AND DANGEROUS INSTRUMENTS:
   A.   It is declared unlawful for any parent, legal guardian or other person
eighteen (18) years of age or older to wilfully, knowingly or recklessly permit
any minor to come into unsupervised possession of any of the following items:
      1.   Bowie, switchblade, or ballistic knife, or other edged weapons
defined by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1, as amended;
      2.   Metallic knuckles;
      3.   Martial arts weaponry, including, but not limited to, nunchakus and
throwing stars;
      4.   Arrows designed for firing from a bow or crossbow device;
      5.   Stun gun or Taser;
      6.   Any device or attachment of any kind designed, used or intended for
use in silencing the report of a firearm;
      7.   Machine gun as defined by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1, as
amended;
      8.   Any bomb, bombshell, grenade, bottle or other container containing
an explosive substance over one-quarter (1/4) ounce, such as, but not limited
to, black powder bombs, Molotov cocktails, pipe bombs or artillery projectiles;
      9.   Firearms, or the ammunition therefor, as defined by 430 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/1.1, as amended;
      10.   Fireworks, as defined by 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 30/2, as
amended; or
      11.   Any pneumatic gun, pneumatic pistol, spring gun, spring pistol,
pellet gun, pellet pistol, BB gun, or BB pistol which expels a single globular
or other geometric shaped projectile, not exceeding .18 inch in diameter,
constructed of plastic, steel, lead or other hard material; any paint ball gun
or paint ball pistol which expels a breakable paint ball containing marking
colors with a force that may be reasonably expected to cause bodily harm.
   B.   It shall be an affirmative defense to a violation of this Section if:
      1.   A minor in possession of a firearm holds a valid hunting license or
FOID card pursuant to 520 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1 et seq., as amended,
and 430 Illinois Compiled Statutes 65/0.01 et seq., as amended; and
      2.   The minor is engaged in hunting, supervised target shooting, or the
otherwise legal transportation of a firearm for such purposes; and
      3.   Neither the minor, nor the adult person otherwise liable under this
Section, are otherwise in violation of any law related to the sale or
possession of weapons, including, but not limited to: 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/24-3.1(1), 5/24-3(a) or 5/24-3.3, as amended. (Ord. 96-36, 12-19-
1996)
2-5-4: PROHIBITIONS AS TO ILLEGAL DRUGS AND ILLEGAL DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
It shall be unlawful for any parent, legal guardian or other person eighteen
(18) years of age or older to wilfully, knowingly or recklessly permit any
minor to come into possession or to retain possession of illegal drugs or
illegal drug paraphernalia. (Ord. 96-36, 12-19-1996)
2-5-5: PROHIBITIONS AS TO ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR:
It shall be unlawful for any parent, legal guardian or other person eighteen
(18) years of age or older to wilfully, knowingly or recklessly permit any
minor to come into possession of, or to consume, alcoholic liquor. (Ord. 96-36,
12-19-1996)
2-5-6: PROHIBITIONS AS TO STOLEN PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any parent, legal guardian or other person eighteen
(18) years of age or older to wilfully, knowingly or recklessly permit any
minor to come into possession or retain possession of stolen property. (Ord.
96-36, 12-19-1996)
2-5-7: IMPROPER SUPERVISION OF MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any parent, legal guardian or other person eighteen
(18) years of age or older to wilfully, knowingly or recklessly permit a minor
in his custody or control to commit any act tending to break the peace, violate
a Municipal curfew ordinance, or engage in street gang related criminal
activity. (Ord. 96-36, 12-19-1996)
2-5-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this Article shall be punished by a fine
of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 96-36, 12-19-1996)
2-5-9: SEVERABILITY:
   A.   If any provision, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or part of this
Article, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall for
any reason be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unconstitutional or invalid, said judgment shall not affect, impair or
otherwise invalidate the remainder of this Section and/or the application of
such provision to other persons or circumstances, but shall be confined in its
operation to the provision, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or part
thereof directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall have
been rendered and to the person or circumstances involved.
   B.   It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent of the Village Board
of Trustees that this Article would have been adopted had such unconstitutional
or invalid provisions, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or part thereof not
been included. (Ord. 96-36, 12-19-1996)
ARTICLE VI
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
2-6-1: No Parking Places
2-6-2: Definitions
2-6-3: Restricted Parking In Residential Districts
2-6-4: Semitrailers And Tractors Outside Of Residential Districts
2-6-5: Parking On Paved Surface
2-6-6: Prohibited And Restricted Parking Of Certain Motor Vehicles
2-6-7: Angle Parking
2-6-8: Unauthorized Use Of Parking Places Reserved For Handicapped Persons
2-6-9: Traffic Regulations
2-6-10:    Penalty For Parking Violations
2-6-1: NO PARKING PLACES:
It shall be unlawful for any person at any time to stop, stand or park any
vehicle at any of the following locations, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police
officer or traffic control device:
   A.   In any intersection.
   B.   In any crosswalk.
   C.   Upon any bridge or viaduct, or in any subway or tunnel or the approach
thereto.
   D.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet (30')
of a point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone.
   E.   Within thirty feet (30') of a traffic signal, beacon or sign on the
approaching side.
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') of any intersection or crosswalk.
   G.   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway of moving traffic to less than eighteen feet (18').
   H.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant, except in the business
district, a vehicle may be parked within nine feet (9') of a fire hydrant
provided that there is at least fifteen feet (15') of no parking on the
opposite side of said fire hydrant.
   I.   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway.
   J.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing.
   K.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any Fire
Department station and on the side of the street opposite the entrance within
seventy five feet (75') of such entrance when properly signposted.
   L.   On any sidewalk or parkway, except that a vehicle may be parked over a
sidewalk, and on any paved surface in the parkway (such as, for example, a
driveway apron) between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on one day and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day.
   M.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking. Parking will be
prohibited on all days from one o'clock (1:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
on State Street from Jackson Avenue to Keyes Avenue within the Village limits.
   N.   On the following streets in the Village, at all times:
      1.   Tang Boulevard.
      2.   Hauk Road.
      3.   Elgiloy Drive.
      4.   The north side of Terwilliger Street, from Prairie Street west to
the park entrance.
      5.   Dietrich Road.
      6.   On Keyes Avenue, on the north side only, between State Street and
Industrial Drive.
      7.   Terwilliger Street:
         a.   On both sides of the street between State Street and Klick Street
(except that parking shall be allowed on the south side of the street only,
between 8:00 A.M. and 12:00 noon, on Sundays only).
         b.   On the south side of the street, west of the westerly entrance to
the semicircle driveway serving Hampshire Elementary School, for a distance
west of thirty feet (30').
      8.   Prairieview Parkway, on the east side of the street, between State
Route 72 (Oak Knoll Street) and Terwilliger Street.
      9.   Rowell Road.
      10.   Industrial Drive.
      11.   Brandt Drive.
      12.   Arrowhead Drive.
      13.   Gast Road.
      14.   Flannigan Road.
      15.   Ryan Drive.
      16.   Loves Crossing.
      17.   Metrix Drive.
      18.   Kelly Road between Harmony Road and Marney Drive.
   O.   Reserved.
   P.   On Rinn Avenue, on the north and south sides, from the intersection of
Park Street west to the alley located between Park Street and Oak Street.
   Q.   On Edgewood Avenue on the south side of the street.
   R.   On High Avenue on the south side of the street.
   S.   In the Lakewood Crossing Subdivision, on the following streets:
      1.   On the following streets or roads, but only on the side of the
street or road on which mailboxes and fire hydrants are located:
         Acorn Court
         Bristol Drive
         Cameron Drive
         Carlisle Lane
         Cesario Drive
         Fallbrook Street
         Hearthstone Drive
         Hennig Road
         Justin Lane
         Ridgecrest Drive, between Ross Street and Fallbrook Drive
         Rockport Road
         Ross Street
      2.   There shall be no parking at any time on Ridgecrest Drive between
Big Timber Road and Ross Street.
   T.   On the following streets or highways in the Tuscany Woods Subdivision,
but only on the side of the street or road on which mailboxes and fire hydrants
are located:
         Castle Way
         Caterina Way
         Como Circle
         DaVinci Drive
         Florence Street
         Lombard Street
         Maestro Lane
         Marcello Drive
         Naples Way
         Noble Lane
         Olive Lane
         Palermo Trail
         Piedmonte Circle
         Spezia Lane
         Summit Drive
         Turin Drive
         Tuscany Trail
         Villa Drive
         Vine Street
         Vineyard Street (south of Romke Road only)
   U.   On Romke Road, north of IL 72, at any time.
   V.   On Jake Lane, east of Centennial Drive, at any time.
   W.   On Runge Road, north of IL 72, at any time.
   X.   On Palermo Court, at any time.
   Y.   On the west side of Vineyard Street (north of Romke Road only).
   Z.   On the north side of Mill Street, from State Street west to the
westerly boundary line of parcel 01-21-427-012 (common address: 202 North State
Street).
   AA.   On the south side of Mill Street, from State Street west to East
Street.
   BB.   On Jefferson Street, on the north side only, from Madison Street
extending east to Stoneshire Court.
   CC.   On White Oak Street, on the northerly and easterly side of the street
from the location of the driveway serving the property at 207 White Oak Street
extending easterly and southerly to the location of the north side of the
driveway for the property at 219 White Oak Street.
   DD.   On White Oak Street, on the southerly and westerly side of the street
from the location of the easternmost access to the parking lot for the park
district property lot extending southerly to the location of the driveway for
the property at 216 White Oak Street.
   EE.   On the east side of Elm Street, from the easternmost boundary line of
the property at 811 Elm Street continuing northerly to the intersection of Elm
Street and Julie Lane.
   FF.   On Arrowhead Court.
   GG.   On both sides of Prairie Street between Terwilliger Street and
Edgewood Avenue between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and between the
hours of two o’clock (2:00) P.M. on school days.
(1985 Code; amd.Ord. 89-10, 10-19-1989; Ord. 90-12, 11-15-1990; Ord. 97-34, 11-
20-1997; Ord. 99-24, 8-19-1999; Ord. 99-31, 10-21-1999; Ord. 99-29, 9-16-1999;
Ord. 00-09, 4-20-2000; Ord. 00-36, 9-21-2000; Ord. 00-53, 12-21-2000; Ord. 01-
42, 12-20-2001; Ord. 02-41, 11-21-2002; Ord. 07-77, 12-20-2007; Ord. 08-04, 2-
21-2008; Ord. 08-29, 6-19-2008; Ord. 11-23, 10-6-2011; Ord. 17-13, 2-16-2017;
Ord. 18-34, 10-4-2018; Ord. 19-34, 12-19-2019; Ord. 23-24, 12-7-2023; Ord. 24-
37, 10-3-2024; Ord. 24-47, 12-19-2024)
2-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of these regulations:
CLASS D OR HIGHER: Class D, Class E, Class F and so on, as defined in the
Illinois Vehicle Code.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Defined as set forth in the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code,
section 1-111.8, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-111.8, as now stated and as
may be hereafter modified or amended from time to time, any of which
modifications or amendments to be incorporated herein by this reference. (Ord.
18-27, 7-19-2018)
2-6-3: RESTRICTED PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   In a residential district in the Village, it shall be unlawful to stop,
stand or park any commercial vehicle with a Class D registration or higher upon
any public street or roadway for a period in excess of sixty (60) minutes,
except that this prohibition shall not apply to any commercial vehicle stopped,
standing or parked in an alley when loading and unloading from such vehicle;
and except for any public utility or emergency vehicle while engaged in a
lawful purpose within said residential district.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to stop, stand or park any semi- trailer or
tractor on any public or private property in a residential zoning district;
except as follows:
      1.   When said truck or tractor is actually delivering, unloading or
loading personal property to or from premises located in such residential
zoning district;
      2.   When parked wholly inside any lawful structure; or
      3.   For emergency purposes; provided, whenever a semitrailer or tractor
is stopped, standing, or parked in an emergency situation, all requirements
regarding flares or other warning devices shall be complied with; and the
driver or owner shall notify the Police Department of the circumstances as soon
as possible.
   C.   A resident may stop, stand or park a travel trailer, camper,
recreational vehicle, or boat, or a truck, trailer or moving van on a public
right-of-way or street directly in front of his or her dwelling, for purposes
of loading or unloading, for a period not to exceed twenty four (24) hours,
unless said parking will cause a danger to public safety. Provided, such
resident shall notify the Police Department prior to stopping, standing or
parking such travel trailer, camper, recreational vehicle, or boat, or truck,
trailer or moving van pursuant to this subsection. (Ord. 18-27, 7-19-2018)
2-6-4: SEMITRAILERS AND TRACTORS OUTSIDE OF RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   No trailer used for hauling or storing any construction materials,
equipment, apparatus, or any miscellaneous goods, and whether or not attached
or detached from a motor vehicle at the time, shall be stopped, left standing,
or parked on any public right-of-way, street, parkway, or sidewalk, between the
hours of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following
day. (Ord. 18-27, 7-19-2018)
2-6-5: PARKING ON PAVED SURFACE:
No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle, trailer, camper,
recreational vehicle, or boat, on any grass, dirt, parkway or similar natural
surface; but all such vehicles shall be stopped, left standing, or parked at
all times on a paved surface. (Ord. 18-27, 7-19-2018)
2-6-6: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED PARKING OF CERTAIN MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to use any public parking location in any business
zoning district in the Village, whether street side parking or public parking
lot, for the parking and/or storage of motor vehicles for commercial purposes.
      1.   Any owner, proprietor, officer or partner in a commercial enterprise
who shall use public parking spaces or lots whether street side or in public
parking areas for such commercial purposes for more than three (3) hours,
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.,
except on Sundays and holidays, shall be subject to fine and penalty pursuant
to section
2-6-9 of this article.
      2.   Said offense shall occur when any such vehicle shall remain in a
public parking space or public parking lot, whether street side or in a public
parking area, for more than three (3) hours during said times without then
being removed to a private property for storage.
      3.   It is the intention of this section to prohibit the commercial use
of public parking spaces, whether or not said vehicles shall be moved from one
public parking space to another, for any period longer than three (3) hours
during said times.
      4.   After the expiration of three (3) hours, said offense shall be
deemed to have been committed, and each day said offense continues beyond the
initial offense shall be deemed a complete and separate offense under the terms
of the penalty provisions of section
2-6-9 of this article.
   B.   Except as otherwise specified in this subsection, there shall be and
hereby is established a limit equal to three (3) hours for parking of any and
all vehicles on both sides of State Street from Jackson Avenue north to the
Hampshire Creek. This limit shall apply at all times between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M., Monday through Saturday;
provided:
      1.   Two (2) parking spaces otherwise designated for parking in the 100
block of State Street shall each be subject to a limit of thirty (30) minutes;
and two (2) spaces otherwise designated for parking in the 200 block of State
Street shall also each be subject to a limit of thirty (30) minutes. These
spaces shall be located one on each side of the street, and shall be marked by
appropriate signs.
      2.   The first designated parking space on the east side of North State
Street, immediately south of Keyes Avenue, address at 193 North State Street,
shall be subject to a limit of thirty (30) minutes. Said restriction shall be
in effect between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:
00) P.M. each day of the week, except Sundays and holidays.
      3.   The first designated parking space on the north side of West
Jefferson Street, immediately west of South State Street, shall be subject to a
limit of fifteen (15) minutes. Said restriction shall be in effect between the
hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. each day of
the week, except Sundays and holidays.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to use any public parking lot located in any
business or industrial zoning district in the Village, except in the Highway
Commercial Zoning District, for the parking and/or storage of a motor vehicle
bearing registration of Class C or higher class, or the parking and/or storage
of any truck trailer, for any purpose.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in any public parking lot
located in the Village for a period in excess of seventy two (72) hours. (Ord.
18-27, 7-19-2018)
2-6-7: ANGLE PARKING:
It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle in a designated angled parking
space, which is neither parallel nor perpendicular to the curb, by backing said
vehicle into the angled parking space. (Ord. 18-27, 7-19-2018)
2-6-8: UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING PLACES RESERVED FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS:
   A.   No person shall park any motor vehicle which is not bearing
registration plates issued to a physically handicapped person pursuant to 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-616, or to a disabled veteran pursuant to 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-609, or is not bearing a handicapped motorist
decal or device issued by a local governing authority pursuant to 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-1301.2, in any parking place, including any private or
public off street parking facility, specifically reserved, by posting of an
official sign, for motor vehicles bearing such registration plates or decal.
   B.   The following parking places shall be designated, by posting an
official sign, parking places reserved for handicapped persons, and shall be
specifically reserved for parking of motor vehicles bearing registration plates
or decals described in this section:
      1.   The southernmost parking place on the east side of South State
Street at the northeast corner of its intersection with Jefferson Street.
      2.   The northernmost parking place on the west side of South State
Street at the southwest corner of its intersection with Washington Street.
      3.   The easternmost parking place on the north side of the Municipal
parking lot at the intersection of Park Street and Rinn Street. (Ord. 18-27, 7-
19-2018)
2-6-9: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   The following portions of certain streets shall be and are designated
as “park zone streets” in the Village:
      1.   Jefferson Avenue, between Parkside Drive and the easterly side of
the driveway at 441 East Jefferson Avenue (the Hampshire Park District
building);
      2.   Barn Owl Street, between Schmidt Drive and the easterly property
line of 183 Barn Owl Drive;
      3.   Schmidt Drive, between the westerly intersection line with Maxwell
Court and the easterly intersection line with Barn Owl Drive; and
      4.   Romke Road between the northerly intersection line with Jake Lane
and the present terminus of Romke Road north and east of Jake Lane.
   B.   There shall be and is established a park zone speed limit of twenty
(20) mph on all park zone streets in the Village.
   C.   On any day when children are present and within fifty (50) feet of
motorized traffic, it shall be a violation for any person to drive a motor
vehicle at a speed in excess of twenty (20) miles per hour while traveling on a
park zone street.
   D.   On any day when children are present and within fifty (50) feet of
motorized traffic, it shall be a violation for any driver traveling on a park
zone street to fail to come to a complete stop at a stop sign or red light, and
for any driver to fail to come to a complete stop at a red light before turning
right onto a park zone street. (Ord. 19-21, 8-22-2019)
2-6-10:      PENALTY FOR PARKING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   For any offense other than a violation of section
2-6-8 , "Unauthorized Use Of Parking Places Reserved For Handicapped Persons",
of this article;
      1.   The owner of the vehicle or the person receiving the citation may
settle and compromise the claim against him or her for such illegal parking by
paying to the Village, not later than ten (10) days after the date of issuance
of the citation, the sum of thirty five dollars ($35.00) for compromise and
settlement of the alleged violation; and
      2.   If the citation has not been compromised and settled by the
Village's receipt of such payment within ten (10) days after the date of
issuance of the citation, then the fine for such violation shall be seventy
five dollars ($75.00); and the Village may institute proceedings on said
citation against the owner of the vehicle in the Circuit Court at any time
after said ten (10) days, in which case court costs shall be added to the fine.
   B.   For an offense under section
2-6-8 , "Unauthorized Use Of Parking Places Reserved For Handicapped Persons",
of this article;
      1.   The owner of the vehicle or the person receiving the citation shall
be liable for a fine equal to three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00), which fine
shall be paid within ten (10) days of the date of issuance of the citation; and
      2.   If said fine has not been paid within ten (10) days after the date
of issuance of said citation, the Village may institute proceedings on said
citation against the owner of the vehicle in the Circuit Court at any time
after said ten (10) days, in which case court costs shall be added to the fine.
(Ord. 18-27, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE VII
SNOW EQUIPMENT, MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES
SECTION:
2-7-1: Parking During Inclement Weather
2-7-2: Snowmobile Purpose And Equipment
2-7-3: Snowmobile Operation
2-7-4: Snowmobile Speed Limit
2-7-5: Additional Snowmobile Violations
2-7-6: Riding On Motorcycles
2-7-7: Special Equipment For Persons Riding Motorcycles
2-7-8: Riding On Bicycles, Other Pedal-Driven Cycles, Skateboards, Scooters And
Roller Skates
2-7-9: Clinging To Motor Vehicles
2-7-10: Riding On Roadways And Bicycle Paths
2-7-11: Carrying Articles On Bicycles
2-7-12: Lamps And Other Equipment On Bicycles
2-7-1: PARKING DURING INCLEMENT WEATHER:
   A.   Parking Prohibited After Snowfall Or Ice Event: Anytime there is a snow
or ice event, it shall be unlawful for any driver or vehicle owner to allow
their vehicle to stand, park, or remain parked on any public street, roadway or
alley, including the curb and gutter or shoulder of a public roadway, for a
period of time longer than: (1) five (5) minutes for the loading and unloading
of passengers; or (2) thirty (30) minutes for the loading, unloading, pick up,
or delivery of materials from any service, delivery, commercial, or private
vehicle. If said vehicle restricts or obstructs the passage of any emergency
vehicle including, but not limited to, snowplow trucks or machinery used for
snow/ice removal, it must be removed immediately upon request. These
restrictions will be enforced: (1) when there is a publicly broadcast U.S.
weather service snow or ice forecast and the snow/ice has started to fall; (2)
while the snow, ice, sleet, or freezing rain is falling; (3) as long as snow,
ice, or sleet remains on the pavement; or (4) while any snow removal operations
are going on. This prohibition shall remain in effect until such time as the
street, roadway, or alley has been plowed or the snow, ice or sleet has been
removed therefrom.
   B.   Nuisance Declared; Removal; Responsibility For Costs: Whenever a
village police officer finds a vehicle parked in violation of this section and
such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic, interferes with the use of
streets or in any other manner creates a dangerous or unsafe condition, such a
vehicle is declared a nuisance and a hazard to public safety, and the police
officer may cause the removal of such vehicle to a public garage or other place
of safety during snow, ice and sleet removal operations of the village. The
expense of such removal and storage in such public garage shall be paid by the
owner or operator of the vehicle, in addition to any other penalties imposed by
this code.
   C.   Dates Of Parking Restrictions: The parking prohibitions listed in this
section shall apply from November 1st through April 1st.
   D.   Additional Discretionary Prohibitions: The chief of police of the
village, or his or her designee, shall have the discretion to implement
additional parking bans to facilitate the abatement of dangerous or inclement
weather conditions under this section.
(Ord. 99-1, 3-18-1999; amd. Ord. 23-01, 2-16-2023; Ord. 24-47, 12-19-2024)
2-7-2: SNOWMOBILE PURPOSE AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   The purpose of the following sections shall be to allow the use of
Village streets and highways for snowmobile traffic going and coming from areas
allowing snowmobiles, while providing for the safety and protection of Village
residents.
   B.   All snowmobiles shall be equipped with:
      1.   Headlamp: At least one white headlamp having a minimum candlepower
of sufficient intensity to exhibit a white light plainly visible from a
distance of at least five hundred feet (500') ahead during hours of darkness
under normal atmospheric conditions.
      2.   Taillight: At least one red taillight having a minimum candlepower
of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the rear during darkness under normal atmospheric
conditions.
      3.   Brakes: A brake system in good mechanical condition.
      4.   Reflective Material: Reflective material of a minimum area of
sixteen (16) square inches mounted on each side of the cowling. Identifying
numbers may be included in computing the required sixteen (16) square inch
area.
      5.   Muffler: Adequate sound suppression equipment.
   C.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this Section shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-7-3: SNOWMOBILE OPERATION:
   A.   Snowmobiles shall be subject to all State and Municipal traffic
regulations, and in addition shall:
      1.   Yield right of way to all vehicles;
      2.   Make a complete stop at all Village intersections; and
      3.   Keep headlight and taillight lit at all times during operation.
   B.   Snowmobiles as defined herein:
      1.   Shall not be operated on private property without consent of the
owner;
      2.   Shall not be operated by other than a licensed driver;
      3.   Shall not be parked or left unattended anywhere within the Village
limits, except on private property; and (1985 Code)
      4.   Shall not be operated on State Street other than to traverse said
street at a perpendicular angle; provided, that no crossing of State Street
shall be made between the railroad crossing and Terwilliger Street except along
the south side of the railroad crossing right of way. (Ord. 89-2, 2-16-1989)
   C.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this Section shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-7-4: SNOWMOBILE SPEED LIMIT:
   A.   The maximum speed limit allowed for operation of a snowmobile within
the Village limits shall be fifteen (15) miles per hour.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this Section shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-7-5: ADDITIONAL SNOWMOBILE VIOLATIONS:
   A.   No operation of a snowmobile within the Village limits shall violate
any State or Municipal law with regard to operation of a vehicle while under
the influence of intoxicating beverages, and shall have no firearms or other
weapons on him while operating said snowmobile, and all State implied consent
laws under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501 et seq., shall be
applicable.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this Section shall be
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-7-6: RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES:
   A.   The operator of a motorcycle shall ride only astride the permanent and
regular seat or saddle attached thereto, and the operator shall not permit more
than one other person to ride thereon nor shall such other person ride on the
motorcycle unless it is designed to carry two (2) people, in which event, the
passenger shall also ride astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle if
it is designed for two (2) persons, or astride another seat or saddle firmly
attached to the rear of the operator; however, any seat or saddle designed for
a passenger must be equipped with permanent handgrips, and, in addition, the
motorcycle must be equipped with footrests adjusted to fit such passenger. A
sidecar may be attached to a motorcycle in which additional persons may ride.
   B.   Riding On Motorized Pedalcycles: The operator of a motorized pedalcycle
shall ride only astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and
shall not permit two (2) persons to ride thereon at the same time, unless the
motorized pedalcycle is designed to carry two (2) persons; any motorized
pedalcycle designed for two (2) persons must be equipped with a passenger seat
and permanent handgrips and footgrips for use of a passenger.
   C.   Neither the operator nor any passenger of a motorized pedalcycle shall
be required to wear any special goggles, shield, helmet or glasses.
   D.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this Section shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-7-7: SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR PERSONS RIDING MOTORCYCLES:
   A.   The operator of a motorcycle and every passenger thereon shall be
protected by glasses, goggles or a transparent shield.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this Section shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-7-8: RIDING ON BICYCLES, OTHER PEDAL-DRIVEN CYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, SCOOTERS AND
ROLLER SKATES:
   A.   A person propelling or riding upon a bicycle or other pedal-driven
cycle shall not ride other than upon or astride a permanent and regular seat
attached thereto.
   B.   No bicycle or other pedal-driven cycle shall be used to carry more
people at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
   C.   No person shall ride any bicycle, other pedal-driven cycle, skateboard,
scooter or roller skates on any sidewalk in the business district.
   D.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this Section shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. (Ord. 88-6, 7-21-1988)
2-7-9: CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any motor vehicle upon a roadway.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this Section shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-7-10: RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS:
   A.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   B.   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall ride single file except on
paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   C.   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided for adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
   D.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this Section shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-7-11: CARRYING ARTICLES ON BICYCLES:
   A.   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or
article which prevents the driver from keeping both hands upon the handlebars.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this Section shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-7-12: LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES:
   A.   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear
which shall be visible from all directions from one hundred feet (100') to six
hundred feet (600') to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of
head lamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
   B.   A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle any siren.
   C.   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold such bicycle.
   D.   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector on each pedal, visible from the front
and rear of the bicycle during darkness from a distance of two hundred feet
(200').
   E.   No persons shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with wide reflectors. Such reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of five hundred feet (500') and shall be
essentially colorless or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and
essentially colorless or amber to the front of the center of the bicycle. The
requirements of this subsection may be met with reflective materials which
shall be at least three-sixteenths of an inch (3/16") wide on each side of each
tire or rim to indicate as clearly as possible the continuous circular sphere
and size of the tires or rims of such bicycle and which reflective materials
may be of the same color on both the front and rear tire or rim.
   F.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this Section shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE VIII
GOLF CARTS, ELECTRIC UTVS AND LOW-SPEED VEHICLES
SECTION:
2-8-1: Purpose
2-8-2: Definitions
2-8-3: Golf Cart/Electric UTV Permit Required
2-8-4: Golf Cart And Electric UTV Rules And Regulations
2-8-5: Enforcement Of Golf Carts
2-8-6: Low-Speed Vehicle Rules And Regulations
2-8-7: Enforcement Of Low-Speed Vehicles
2-8-1:   PURPOSE:
This article is adopted in the interest of public safety. Golf carts and
electric UTVs were not designed or manufactured to be used on public streets
and roadways. By regulating the operation of golf carts and electric UTVs. the
village is addressing safety concerns. All persons operating golf carts.
electric UTVs and low-speed vehicles must be observant and attentive to the
safety of themselves and others, including their passengers, other motorists.
bicyclists and pedestrians. All persons who operate or ride golf carts,
electric UTVs or low-speed vehicles on village streets do so at their own risk.
The village has no liability under any theory of liability for permitting golf
carts to be operated on village streets. By enacting this article, the village
is not designating the operation of golf carts or electric UTVs as an intended
or permitted use of property with respect to section 3-102 of the Local
Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act (745 ILCS 10/3-102)
and the village waives no immunities provided by the Local Governmental and
Governmental Emplovees Tort Immunity Act (745 ILCS 10/1-101, et seq.). (Ord.
25-21, 6-5-2025)
2-8-2:   DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this article shall have the meanings as set
forth below:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The chief of police of the Hampshire Police Department or a
designee thereof.
ELECTRIC UTV: A utility terrain vehicle (sometimes referred to as a utility
task vehicle) with an electric motor; while an electric UTV falls under the
umbrella of an all-terrain vehicle. it is typically used more for work than
recreation.
GOLF CART: Has the meaning ascribed to it in section 1-123.9 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-123.9).
LOW-SPEED VEHICLE: Has the meaning ascribed to it in section 1-140.7 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-140.7).
VILLAGE STREETS: Any of the streets or roadways within the corporate limits of
the village and under the jurisdiction of the village. (Ord. 25-21, 6-5-2025)
2-8-3:   GOLF CART/ELECTRIC UTV PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall operate a motorized golf cart or
electric UTV on village streets without first obtaining a permit from the
village.
   B.   Application for Permit; Proof of Compliance: Golf cart and electric UTV
owners must complete a permit application. The completed applications will be
maintained by the village. The village may issue a permit sticker or a permit
as proof of compliance and may require that permit stickers are properly
displayed on each golf cart and electric UTV.
   C.   Permit Fee: A fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) shall be
assessed to cover the costs of implementing and enforcing this article.
   D.   Insurance Required: Insurance coverage will be verified as in effect by
the owner when applying for a permit.
   E.   Term of Permit; Renewals: Permits shall be granted for a period of one
(1) year, from May 1st to April 30th, and may be renewed annually.
   F.   Denial or Revocation of Permit: The village retains the right to
prohibit any nonresident from operating a golf cart or electric UTV in the
village and to refuse to issue, revoke or suspend any permit issued for a golf
cart or electric UTV, at any time. if such prohibition, refusal, revocation or
suspension is appropriate to ensure the safety and wellbeing of residents of
the village.
   G.   Hearings: Any person receiving a refusal, violation. revocation or
suspension notice under this article, except for moving violations under the
Illinois Vehicle Code, shall have an opportunity for a hearing in accordance
with the procedures of the village. Any suspension or revocation of a privilege
granted pursuant to this article will be at the discretion of the hearing
officer. (Ord. 25-21, 6-5-2025)
2-8-4:   GOLF CART AND ELECTRIC UTV RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Where authorized. golf carts and electric UTVs may only be operated on village
streets in accordance with the following rules and regulations:
   A.   Any person who operates a golf cart or electric UTV in the village
shall take full responsibility for all liability associated with operating the
golf cart or electric UTV.
   B.   Any person who operates a golf cart or electric UTV in the village must
be at least sixteen 16) years of age and possess a valid driver's license to
operate a motor vehicle issued in his or her name by the Illinois Secretary of
State or by a foreign jurisdiction.
   C.   Any person who operates a golf cart or electric UTV in the village must
possess proof of liability insurance and shall be subject to the mandatory
insurance requirements set forth in Article VI of Chapter 7 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/7-601, et seq.).
   D.   Car seats must be used when required by the State of Illinois. Children
must be properly seated while a golf cart or electric UTV is in motion and may
not be transported in a negligent manner.
   E.   No golf cart or electric UTV may be operated on a village street
unless, at a minimum, it has the following: brakes. seat belts. a windshield. a
steering apparatus. tires, a rearview mirror, red reflectorized warning devices
in the front and rear, a slow moving emblem (as required of other vehicles in
section 12-709 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/12-709)) on the rear of
the golf cart or electric UTV, a headlight that emits a white light visible
from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front, a tail lamp that
emits a red light visible from at least one hundred feet (100') from the rear,
brake lights and turn signals.
   F.   When operated on a village street, a golf cart and electric UTV shall
have its headlight and tail lamps lighted as required by section 12-201 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/12-201).
   G.   Golf carts and electric UTVs are not permitted to drive in public
parks. on sidewalks or any private property not owned by the user or has not
received permission from the property owner. This section shall not preclude a
golf cart or electric UTV conducting farm operations in accordance with the
provisions of subsection 11-1426.1(h) of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/
11-1426(h)).
   H.   Golf carts and electric UTVs may only be operated on village streets
that have a posted speed limit of thirty-five (35) miles per hour or less. Golf
carts and electric UTVs may cross a road or street at an intersection where the
street has a posted speed limit of more than thirty-five (35) miles per hour.
   I.   Golf carts and electric UTVs shall not make a direct crossing upon or
across any toll road, interstate highway or controlled access highway in
Illinois. Golf carts and electric UTVs shall not make a direct crossing upon or
across any other highway under the jurisdiction of the State of Illinois except
at an intersection of the highway with another public street, road or highway.
   J.   Golf carts and electric UTVs must yield the right-of-way to overtaking
vehicles at all times. Golf carts and electric UTVs shall yield the right of
way to all pedestrians, bicycles and emergency vehicles.
   K.   The operation of golf carts and electric UTVs shall be in compliance
with the provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-100, et seq.),
as amended.
   L.   Golf carts and electric UTVs may only park in areas within the village
where vehicles are legally allowed to park, except for angled parking on State
Street. Golf carts and electric UTVs may not park upon any shoulder, grassy
area, or right-of-way.
   M.   Any person who operates a golf cart or electric UTV on village streets
must adhere to all applicable state laws concerning the possession and use of
alcoholic beverages, and all other illegal drugs, as well as all other state
traffic laws. No person shall drive or be in actual physical control of a golf
cart or electric UTV while under the influence. Any person who drives or is in
actual physical control of a golf cart or electric UTV while under the
influence shall be subject to sections 11-500 through 11-502 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-500 - 5/11-502).
   N.   The maximum occupancy of golf carts traveling on village streets will
be one (1) person per bucket seat or three (3) people per bench seat. Golf cart
capacity may not exceed the capacity calculated by the manufacturer of the golf
cart. Electric UTV capacity may not exceed the capacity calculated by the
manufacturer of the electric UTV.
   O.   No person shall operate a golf cart or electric UTV having a decibel
level exceeding EPA factory set regulatory levels within the village.
   P.   All golf carts and electric UTVs operated on village streets must have
valid permit documentation from the village. (Ord. 25-21, 6-5-2025)
2-8-5:   ENFORCEMENT OF GOLF CARTS:
   A.   Any person who violates the provisions of this article concerning golf
carts and has been issued a citation shall be fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) on the first offense and up to seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00) on each subsequent offense.
   B.   Persons who have violated the provisions ofthis article on more than
one occasion may have the privileges granted by this article refused. suspended
or revoked by the village.
   C.   Upon investigation by and the recommendation of the Hampshire Police
Department, the village may refuse to issue a permit or may a suspend or revoke
a golf cart or electric UTV permit upon finding that there is evidence that:
      1.   The golf cart or electric UTV operator or immediate members of their
family have not safely operated a golf cart or electric UTV;
      2.   The permit sticker or permit was fraudulently or erroneously issued;
      3.   A registered golf cart or electric UTV has been dismantled or
wrecked or is not properly equipped;
      4.   Any required fees have not been paid to the village. and the same
are not paid upon reasonable notice and demand: or
      5.   A permit sticker is displayed upon a golf cart or electric UTV other
than the one for which it is issued.
   D.   The interpretation of the above rules and regulations by the village is
final.
   E.   The corporate authorities reserve the right to repeal and revoke this
article at any time. (Ord. 25-21, 6-5-2025)
2-8-6:   LOW-SPEED VEHICLE RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Where authorized. low-speed vehicles may be operated on village streets in
accordance with the following rules and regulations:
   A.   Every owner of a low-speed vehicle manufactured after January 1, 2010,
shall have a valid certificate of title.
   B.   Every owner of a low-speed vehicle shall have evidence of proper
registration.
   C.   Any person may drive or operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street in
the village where the posted speed limit is thirty (30) miles per hour or less.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the village determines that public safety
would be jeopardized. the village will post appropriate signs on streets where
low-speed vehicles are not allowed to be driven or operated on.
   D.   Low-speed vehicles may cross a street at an intersection where the
street being crossed has a posted speed limit of not more than forty-five (45)
miles per hour. Low-speed vehicles may not cross a street with a speed limit in
excess of forty-five (45) miles per hour unless the crossing is at an
intersection controlled by a traffic light or four (4)-way stop sign.
   E.   No low-speed vehicle may be operated on any village street unless, at a
minimum, it has the following: a parking brake, a steering apparatus, tires, a
windshield that conforms to the federal vehicle safety standards on glazing
materials as set forth in 49 C.F.R. § 571.205, a vehicle identification number,
seat belts. a rearview mirror. an exterior rearview mirror mounted on the
driver's side of the vehicle, red reflectorized warning devices on each rear
side and one on the center rear of the vehicle, a headlight that emits a white
light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front, a tail lamp that emits
a red light visible from at least 100 feet from the rear. brake lights. and
front and rear turn signals. When operated on a street. a low-speed vehicle
shall have its headlight and tail lamps lighted as required by Section 12-201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/12-201).
   F.   A person may not operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street in the
village unless he or she has a valid driver's license issued in his or her name
by the Illinois Secretary of State or a foreign jurisdiction.
   G.   The operation of a low-speed vehicle upon any street is subject to the
provisions of Chapter 11 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-100, et
seq.) as well as all other state traffic laws and applicable village
ordinances.
   H.   Every owner of a low-speed vehicle is subject to the mandatory
insurance requirements specified in Article VI of Chapter 7 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/7-601, et seq.).
   I.   Low-speed vehicles may only park in areas within the village where
vehicles are legally allowed to park. except for angled parking on State
Street. Low-speed vehicles may not park upon any shoulder, grassy area. or
right-of-way. (Ord. 25-21, 6-5-2025)
2-8-7:   ENFORCEMENT OF LOW-SPEED VEHICLES:
Any person who violates the provisions of this article concerning low-speed
vehicles and has been issued a citation shall be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) on the first offense and up to seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00) on each subsequent offense. (Ord. 25-21, 6-5-2025)
ARTICLE IX
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-9-1: Street Cleaning
2-9-2: Time Limit Parking
2-9-3: Parking At Curb
2-9-4: Vehicles For Sale
2-9-5: Alleys
2-9-6: Towing Cars
2-9-7: Presumption Of Liability
2-9-8: Posting Of Signs
2-9-9: Prima Facie Proof
2-9-10: Restrictions On Fences
2-9-11: Items Left At Containers For Collection Of Secondhand Items
2-9-1: STREET CLEANING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street or
portion thereof in the village at any time when such street is being cleaned.
Signs indicating that a street or portion thereof is being cleaned shall be
posted immediately before the cleaning of the street, and shall be removed
after the cleaning of the street is finished.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
guilty of a class B misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-9-2: TIME LIMIT PARKING:
   A.   Except on Sundays or holidays, it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle
for more than one hour in any consecutive period of time between the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. in any area designated by
ordinance as a restricted parking area.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
guilty of a class B misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-9-3: PARKING AT CURB:
No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the curb
or edge of pavement except on one-way streets, or as designated by ordinance,
and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any vehicle in a street other than
parallel with the curb or edge of pavement and with the two (2) right wheels of
the vehicle within twelve inches (12") of the regularly established curb or
edge of pavement line, except that upon those streets that have been marked for
angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb or edge of
pavement indicated by such marks. (1985 Code)
2-9-4: VEHICLES FOR SALE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street or public
parking lot for the purpose of displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle
upon any business street from which vehicle merchandise is peddled. (Ord. 93-5,
3-18-1993)
   B.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
guilty of a class B misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-9-5: ALLEYS:
   A.   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   B.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
guilty of a class B misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
2-9-6: TOWING CARS:
The police department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty are
hereby authorized to remove and tow away or have removed and towed away by
commercial towing service, any car or other vehicle illegally parked in any
place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks
the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the movement of any
emergency vehicle, or any vehicle which has been parked in any public street or
other public place for a period of twenty four (24) consecutive hours. (1985
Code)
2-9-7: PRESUMPTION OF LIABILITY:
The fact that an automobile which is illegally parked is registered in the name
of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person was in
control of the automobile at the time of such parking. (1985 Code)
2-9-8: POSTING OF SIGNS:
The chief of police or any other person authorized by the village president and
board of trustees shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where parking is
limited or prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (1985 Code)
2-9-9: PRIMA FACIE PROOF:
The fact that an automobile which is illegally operated or parked is registered
in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person
was in control of the automobile at the time of such violation. (1985 Code)
2-9-10: RESTRICTIONS ON FENCES:
It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any fence composed in whole or in
part of barbed wire, or with any similar material designed to cause injury to
persons, or any wire charged with electric current, anywhere within the
village, except as follows:
   A.   Barbed wire may be utilized in the construction of a fence located
within three feet (3') of any public place, street, alley, sidewalk, parkway,
or other public place, in the B-3 business district, the M-1 restricted
industrial district, or the M-2 general industrial district, but only as a
special use approved in accordance with the requirements of subsection 6-14-3H
of this code.
   B.   A fence composed in whole or in part of wire charged with electric
current shall be allowed within or surrounding any livestock area located on
any property in the F-1 farming district located in the village.
   C.   A fence commonly referred to as an "invisible fence" used for animal
control purposes, as described in section
2-11-9 of this chapter, shall be allowed, subject to all other applicable
requirements. (Ord. 09-21, 6-18-2009)
2-9-11: ITEMS LEFT AT CONTAINERS FOR COLLECTION OF SECONDHAND ITEMS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place a collection container on
any property in the village without a permit.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, dump, discard, or leave:
      1.   At the location of any collection container for secondhand items and
outside of the container any items of apparel, clothing, or footwear, or any
other item; or
      2.   At the location of any collection container for secondhand items any
flammable or hazardous materials.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person, including the owner of the
property on which any collection container for secondhand items is located: 1)
to leave or to allow to remain outside of the container any articles of
apparel, clothing or footwear, or any other item, otherwise placed there by any
third party; or 2) to leave or to allow to remain outside of such container any
flammable or hazardous materials placed there by any third party.
   D.   For purposes of this section, the term "collection container for
secondhand items" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in section
6-2-2 of this code.
   E.   Any person found to have violated the provisions of this section shall
be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day that such offense
occurs or remains without cure shall be deemed a separate offense for purposes
of this section. (Ord. 14-23, 5-1-2014)
ARTICLE X
CURFEW AND TRUANCY
SECTION:
2-10-1: Definitions
2-10-2: Curfew Hours
2-10-3: Truancy; Truant In Public Place
2-10-4: Exceptions
2-10-5: Parental Responsibility
2-10-6: Contributing To Truancy
2-10-7: Hearing Requirements; Parental Obligation To Attend
2-10-8: Penalties
2-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
Except as otherwise specifically defined herein, the words and phrases utilized
in this article shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Illinois
criminal code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 555/1.
PARENT: A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person, and
any other person who is at least eighteen (18) years of age and who has been
authorized by a parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
PERMISSION: The exceptions described in section
2-10-4 of this article.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, any public street,
avenue, road, highway, curb area, alley, park, playground, public place or
public building, place of amusement or eating place, vacant lot/land or
unsupervised place; or any place open to the public, including, but not limited
to, any hospital, apartment house, office building, transport facility, or
shop, within the village of Hampshire.
STUDENT: Any person who is required by law to attend school and who is subject
to the compulsory attendance requirements of the Illinois school code, and/or
enrolled in a public, private (including home school) or parochial school (a
"student"). (Ord. 12-21, 9-20-2012)
2-10-2: CURFEW HOURS:
It is unlawful for a person less than seventeen (17) years of age to be present
at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway at the
following times unless accompanied and supervised by a parent or guardian, or
unless engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of this state
authorize a person less than seventeen (17) years of age to perform:
   A.   Between one minute after eleven o'clock (11:01) P.M. on Sunday through
Thursday, inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day;
   B.   Between one minute after eleven o'clock (11:01) P.M. Friday and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. Saturday; and
   C.   Between one minute after eleven o'clock (11:01) P.M. Saturday and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. Sunday. (Ord. 12-21, 9-20-2012)
2-10-3: TRUANCY; TRUANT IN PUBLIC PLACE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any student who is subject to compulsory
school attendance under Illinois law to absent himself or herself from
attendance at school during the hours in which he or she is enrolled, including
summer school, without permission from his or her parent or guardian, or the
permission of an appropriate official of such student's school.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any student who is subject to compulsory
school attendance under Illinois law to absent himself or herself from
attendance at school during the hours in which he or she is enrolled, including
summer school, without permission from his or her parent or guardian, or the
permission of an appropriate official of such student's school, and to be found
in any public place.
For purposes of this section, a student is absent from school and found in a
public place if said person is found loitering, wandering, idling, strolling,
playing or aimlessly driving or riding about in or upon any public place during
the hours of the same day when the school said student should be attending is
in session. (Ord. 12-21, 9-20-2012)
2-10-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of sections
2-10-2 and
2-10-3 of this article shall not apply when:
   A.   The minor has in his or her possession a written excuse from his or her
parent or guardian, which provides an explanation under the circumstances
considering the time of day, the conduct being engaged in at the time by the
minor or student, and other observable factors, so as to determine the validity
of the minor's presence after curfew;
   B.   The student has in his or her possession a valid written excuse from
his or her parent or guardian which provides valid cause for the student's
absence from school, valid cause being determined by the requirements of the
Illinois school code as in effect at the time of the absence, which are hereby
incorporated herein by reference;
   C.   The minor or student is at the time accompanied by his or her parent or
guardian;
   D.   The minor or student is on an emergency errand directed by his or her
parent or guardian;
   E.   The minor or student is going directly to or from a medical
appointment;
   F.   The student has permission to leave the building or campus of his or
her school or the place of his or her home school and has in his or her
possession a valid, school issued (including home school) off campus permit;
and
   G.   The minor or student is going directly to, or returning directly from,
a public meeting or the student is going directly to, or returning directly
from, a school related activity, such as a movie, play, sporting event, dance
or other school related activity, provided such meeting, event or activity is a
school approved activity for the student or is otherwise supervised by school
personnel of the student's school. (Ord. 12-21, 9-20-2012)
2-10-5: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit a person in
his or her custody or control to violate the provisions of this article. (Ord.
12-21, 9-20-2012)
2-10-6: CONTRIBUTING TO TRUANCY:
It shall be unlawful for any person eighteen (18) years of age or older to
perform any act of commission or omission which act encourages, contributes to
or facilitates the truancy of any person as prohibited in this article. (Ord.
12-21, 9-20-2012)
2-10-7: HEARING REQUIREMENTS; PARENTAL OBLIGATION TO ATTEND:
Any minor or student cited for a violation under this article must attend all
court proceedings on the alleged violation and must be accompanied at all such
proceedings by his or her parent(s) or guardian(s). If any such parent or
guardian fails to attend the proceeding with the minor, the court may continue
the proceedings until said parent or guardian shall be in attendance. Any
parent or guardian who shall knowingly fail to attend the proceedings shall be
in violation of this article and upon a determination of guilt by the court
under this article shall be sentenced in accordance with the penalty provisions
in section
2-10-8 of this article. (Ord. 12-21, 9-20-2012)
2-10-8: PENALTIES:
Any person found to be in violation of this article shall be subject to the
following:
   A.   For a violation of the regulations set out in section
2-10-2 and/or
2-10-5 of this article, and/or for a violation of section
2-10-7 of this article arising out of a charge for failure to attend
proceedings arising out of a charge of failure to observe curfew, a student or
person shall be subject to a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
   B.   For a violation of the regulations set out in section
2-10-3 of this article, any student thirteen (13) years of age and older shall
be sentenced:
      1.   To perform community service, as follows:
         a.   Not less than ten (10) hours of community service for the first
offense,
         b.   Not less than twenty five (25) hours of community service for a
second offense, and
         c.   Not less than fifty (50) hours of community service for each
offense thereafter;
      2.   In addition, such person may be fined in an amount not to exceed one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
   C.   Any parent or guardian of a student under thirteen (13) years of age
who is found to have violated the provisions of this article regarding truancy,
or any such person who has violated section
2-10-5,
2-10-6, and/or
2-10-7 of this article, shall be sentenced to perform a number of hours of
community service as determined by the court, and may also be sentenced to pay
a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 12-21, 9-20-2012)
ARTICLE XI
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
2-11-1: Animal Defined
2-11-2: Animal Cruelty
2-11-3: Dangerous Animals
2-11-4: Animal Noise
2-11-5: Stray Animals
2-11-6: Diseased Animals
2-11-7: Animal Housing
2-11-8: Adoption Of Illinois Animal Control Act
2-11-9: Adoption Of Kane County Animal Control Ordinances
2-11-10: Invisible Or Electronic Fencing
2-11-11: Running At Large; Leash Required
2-11-12: Penalty
2-11-1: ANIMAL DEFINED:
The word "animal", as used in this article, shall include any living being
capable of sensation and the power of voluntary motion, other than man and
plants. (1985 Code)
2-11-2: ANIMAL CRUELTY:
No person shall cruelly treat, in any of the following ways, any animal within
the village:
   A.   By overloading, overdriving, overworking, cruelly beating, torturing,
tormenting, mutilating or cruelly killing any animal, or cause or knowingly
allow the same to be done.
   B.   By unnecessarily failing to provide any animal in his charge or
custody, as owner or otherwise, with proper food, drink, shelter and air.
   C.   By abandoning any old, maimed, infirm, sick or disabled animal. (1985
Code)
2-11-3: DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous or vicious animal of any
kind to run at large within the village. Exhibitions or parades of animals
which are ferae naturae, as defined by law, may be conducted only upon securing
a permit from the chief of police.
   B.   The members of the Hampshire police department, or any other persons in
the village, are authorized to kill any dangerous animal when it is necessary
for the protection of any person. (1985 Code)
2-11-4: ANIMAL NOISE:
It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which provokes a breach of
the peace by loud noises at any time of the day or night. (1985 Code)
2-11-5: STRAY ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to permit any cattle, horses, swine, sheep, goats or
poultry to run at large in the village. Any such animal running at large in any
public place in the village shall be impounded in the manner provided herein.
It shall further be unlawful to picket or tie any such animal in any of the
streets of the village for the purpose of grazing or feeding. (1985 Code)
2-11-6: DISEASED ANIMALS:
   A.   No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease
shall be allowed to run at large, or to be exposed in any public place whereby
the health of man or animal may be affected; nor shall such diseased animal be
shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof, except under
supervision of the health officer.
   B.   It is hereby made the duty of the health officer to secure such
disposition of any diseased animal and such treatment for the affected premises
so as to prevent the communication and spread of contagion or infection, except
in cases where the state veterinarian is in power to act. (1985 Code)
2-11-7: ANIMAL HOUSING:
No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal is or may
be kept to become unclean or unwholesome, and it shall be unlawful to keep any
live swine or pigs within the village. (1985 Code)
2-11-8: ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS ANIMAL CONTROL ACT:
The village of Hampshire hereby adopts and incorporates by reference 510
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1. (1985 Code)
2-11-9: ADOPTION OF KANE COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCES:
The village of Hampshire hereby adopts and incorporates by reference all
ordinances of Kane County, Illinois, as amended, relating to the regulations of
animals and animal control, with the following exception(s):
   A.   Section 5/9(a) of the Kane County animal control ordinance shall be and
hereby is amended to state the following:
Persons who utilize "invisible fencing" to contain any animal must display
prominently on their property immediately adjacent to the public right of way a
sign which indicates that any animal located thereon is contained by means of
"invisible fencing." Invisible fencing installed after March 31, 2000, must be
set back from the public right of way a minimum of five feet (5').
      1.   For purposes of this section, the setback distance shall be measured
from the front lot line; from any side lot line abutting a street line (in
particular, on a corner lot); and from any rear lot line abutting a public
alleyway, as those terms are otherwise defined in the Hampshire municipal code,
chapter 6: zoning regulations.
      2.   Any invisible fencing may be located on or adjacent to any rear lot
line not abutting a public alleyway, or any side lot line not abutting a street
line, without any required setback.
(Ord. 09-21, 6-18-2009)
2-11-10: INVISIBLE OR ELECTRONIC FENCING:
   A.   Persons who utilize invisible or electronic fencing to contain any dog
or cat must prominently display on their property immediately adjacent to the
public right of way a sign which indicates that any dog or cat located thereon
is contained by way of invisible or electronic fencing.
   B.   Invisible or electronic fencing shall be set back a minimum of five
feet (5') from any public right of way and property lines. In cases where a
side yard is less than five feet (5'), then the invisible or electronic fence
shall be placed at the farthest point away from the structure on the property.
(Ord. 08-35, 9-11-2008)
2-11-11: RUNNING AT LARGE; LEASH REQUIRED:
   A.   No owner or any person entitled to the custody of any dog or cat shall
permit the dog or cat to be at large or to confine the dog or cat in a manner
so that it can escape and so be at large without his permission, unless the dog
or cat is securely confined upon a leash of sufficient strength and accompanied
by any able bodied person capable of controlling the actions of the dog or cat
under any circumstances.
   B.   Any dog or cat in an unfenced property and not using an invisible or
electronic fence shall be properly restrained on the property a minimum of five
feet (5') from any public right of way and property lines. (Ord. 08-35, 9-11-
2008)
2-11-12: PENALTY:
Every person who is convicted of a violation of this article shall be guilty of
a class B misdemeanor. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 08-35, 9-11-2008)
ARTICLE XII
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE; REMOVALS
SECTION:
2-12-1: Property Maintenance
2-12-2: Lien For Removal Costs
2-12-3: Priority Liens For Removal Costs
2-12-4: Release Of Liens
2-12-5: Foreclosure Of Liens
2-12-6: Penalties
2-12-7: Agents, Etc., Included
2-12-1: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Cutting And Removal Of Grass, Weeds, Trees And Bushes:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, occupant, possessor, or
person having any control over any parcel of real estate in the village to
allow or maintain, or to fail to destroy or remove, any nuisance greenery on
the property, including the area of parkway of any public right of way abutting
said property.
      2.   For purposes of this section, "nuisance greenery" shall mean and
include all grasses used for lawn or yard purposes, or any high or rank
vegetation growth, which exceed eight inches (8") in height; and shall also
mean any annual or perennial herbaceous plant not cultivated or useful for
human food or enjoyment and which, when in blossom, gives off an unpleasant or
noxious odor or pollen irritating to human tissues; any plant which grows where
it is not wanted, including jimson, ragweed (Ambrosia), Canada thistle (Cirsuim
arvense) and all of its varieties, perennial snow thistles (Sonchus arvensis),
European bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis), leafy spurge (Tithmyalus esula),
hoary cress (Lipidium draba), leafy spurge, Russian knapweed (Centaurea
repens), dandelion weed, burdock, blue vervain, wild carrot, poison ivy, wild
mustard, tough pigweed, lamb's quarters weed, wild lettuce, curled dock, smart
weeds, including all varieties, poison hemlock, wild hemp, oxeye daisy,
goldenrod, yellow hemlock, buckthorn; and any unkempt trees and bushes.
      3.   The following grasses and weeds are exempt from the provisions of
this article: Bouteloua (Curtipendula, Hirsuta), Brachyelytrum (Erectum),
Bromus (Kaimil), Calamagrostis (Canadensis), Carex (Bicknelli, Stricta), Cinna
(Arundinacea), Diarrhenna (Americana), Elymus (Candensis, Villosus,
Virginicus), Eragrostis (Spectabilla), Glyceria (Striata), Hierochloe
(Odorata), Hystrix (Patula), Koeleria (Cristata), Muhlenbergia (Cuspidata),
Panicum (Leibergii, Aligosanthes, Virgatum), Scirpus (Atrovirens), Sorghastrum
(Nutans), Spartina (Pectinata), Sporobolus (Heterolepis), Stipa (Spartea),
Uniola (Latifolia), prairie grass and Forbes.
      4.   Every owner, lessee, occupant, possessor, or other person having any
control of any parcel of real estate in the village shall take such steps as
are necessary to cut and maintain the greenery on his property, in accordance
with the requirements of this section, so as not to constitute nuisance
greenery. If such person fails, refuses or neglects to do so, the village may
cut, or cause the cutting of, such nuisance greenery on the property.
      5.   Prior to the cutting of any nuisance greenery by the village, the
village shall serve a notice upon any such owner, lessee, occupant, possessor,
or other person having any control of such real estate, by certified mail,
return receipt, or by personal service, which shall set forth the date,
location and nature of the violation and which shall allow such person a period
of seven (7) days from receipt thereof to cut such nuisance greenery.
      6.   If such owner, lessee, occupant, possessor, or other person having
any control of such real estate fails to correct the violation within the time
specified, the village may then cut, or cause to be cut, the nuisance greenery.
   B.   Pest Extermination:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, occupant, possessor or
other person having any control of a parcel of real estate in the village to
allow undesirable pests on the property.
      2.   The term "undesirable pests" means and includes undesirable
arthropods, including insects, spiders, mites, ticks, and related or similar
organisms; wood infesting organisms; and rats, mice, and other obnoxious
undesirable animals; but specifically, does not include a feral cat; a
"companion animal" as that term is defined in the humane care for animals act 1
, "animals" as that term is defined in the Illinois diseased animals act 2 ; or
animals protected by the wildlife code 3 .
      3.   Every owner, lessee, occupant, possessor, or person having any
control over any parcel of real estate in the village shall take such steps as
are necessary to exterminate such pests and/or prevent the ingress of pests
onto the property, as needed. If such person fails, refuses or neglects to do
so, the village may undertake or cause to be undertaken pest control activities
for the extermination of such pests from, or the prevention of the ingress of
such pests onto, the property.
      4.   Prior to the village undertaking such pest control activities, the
village shall serve notice on any such owner, lessee, occupant, possessor or
other person having any control of such real estate by certified mail, return
receipt, or by personal service, which shall allow such person a period of
seven (7) days from receipt thereof to undertake appropriate pest control
activities. If any such person fails, refuses, or neglects to undertake
appropriate pest control activities within the time specified, the village may
then undertake, or cause to be undertaken, pest control activities to
accomplish such extermination, or prevention of ingress of such pests onto the
property.
   C.   Infected Trees:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, occupant, possessor or
other person having any control of a parcel of real estate in the village to
allow or maintain on any such real estate any tree infected with Dutch elm
disease or any ash tree infected with the emerald ash borer (Agrilus
planipennis fairmaire).
      2.   Any owner, lessee, occupant, possessor, or any other person having
any control over any parcel of real estate in the village shall remove any elm
tree infected with Dutch elm disease and any ash tree infected with the emerald
ash borer. If such person fails, refuses or neglects to remove such tree or
trees from the property, the village may do so.
      3.   Prior to removal of any such infected trees by the village, the
village shall serve a notice upon any such owner, lessee, occupant, possessor,
or other person having any control of such real estate, by certified mail,
return receipt, or by personal service, which shall set forth the date,
location and nature of the violation and which shall allow such person a period
of seven (7) days from receipt thereof to remove any such tree. If such person
fails, refuses, or neglects to remove any such tree within the time specified,
the village may then remove, or cause the removal of, any such tree.
   D.   Garbage And Debris:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, occupant, possessor or
other person having any control of a property in the village to fail, refuse or
neglect to remove any garbage or debris placed on, kept on, strewn about, or
littered on any private property in the village.
      2.   For purposes of this article, "garbage or debris" is defined to
include all household waste; scrap metals and their alloys; bones; rags and
used cloth; refuse; trash; used rubber and tires; used rope; used tinfoil; used
bottles; old or used machinery and tools; used appliances; used structures;
used utensils; used lumber; used boxes, crates, or paper items; used pipe and
pipe fittings; unlicensed, inoperable or abandoned motor vehicles; and any
other goods or items that are so worn, deteriorated, or obsolete as to render
them unusable in their existing condition.
      3.   Every owner, lessee, occupant, possessor, or other person having any
control over any parcel of real estate in the village shall remove any garbage
or debris from his property. If such person fails, refuses or neglects to
remove such garbage or debris from the property, the village may do so.
      4.   Prior to the removal of any such garbage or debris by the village,
the village shall serve a notice upon any such owner, lessee, occupant,
possessor, or other person having any control of such real estate by certified
mail, return receipt, or by personal service, which shall set forth the date,
location and nature of the violation and which shall allow such person a period
of seven (7) days from receipt thereof to remove such garbage and debris. If
such person fails to correct the violation within the time specified, the
village may then remove any such garbage or debris from the property.
   E.   Graffiti:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, occupant, possessor or
other person having any control of a parcel of real estate in the village to
maintain, or to fail to remove, any graffiti from any such property in the
village.
      2.   For purposes of this article, "graffiti" shall mean and include any
writing, printing, marks, signs, symbols, figures, designs, inscriptions or
other drawings which are marked, scratched, etched, scrawled, painted, drawn or
otherwise placed on any exterior surface of a building, wall, fence, sidewalk,
curb or other permanent structure on public or private property, and which have
the effect of defacing the property.
      3.   Every owner, lessee, occupant, possessor, or other person having any
control over any parcel of real estate in the village shall remove any such
graffiti from his property. If such person fails, refuses, or neglects to
remove such graffiti, the village may remove, or cause to be removed, such
graffiti.
      4.   Prior to the removal of any such graffiti by the village, the
village shall serve a notice upon any such owner, lessee, occupant, possessor,
or other person having any control of such real estate, by certified mail,
return receipt, or by personal service, which shall set forth the date,
location and nature of the violation and which shall allow such person a period
of seven (7) days from receipt thereof to remove the graffiti. If such person
fails, refuses, or neglects to remove the graffiti within the time specified,
the village may then remove such graffiti from the property. (Ord. 11-01, 1-6-
2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 70.
2 2. 510 ILCS 50.
3 3. 520 ILCS 5.
2-12-2: LIEN FOR REMOVAL COSTS:
   A.   The costs incurred by the village for any such maintenance work
performed on private property, including, but not limited to, cutting of any
nuisance greenery; the removal of any trash or debris; cutting of any infected
tree; and/or pest control activities for extermination or prevention of ingress
on private property, together with the costs incurred by the village for
recording the notice of lien described herein, shall be a lien upon the real
estate, if within sixty (60) days after such costs and expenses are incurred,
the village records a notice of lien in the office of the recorder of Kane
County.
   B.   Any such notice of lien shall contain at least the following
information:
      1.   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof.
      2.   The amount of the money representing the cost and expense incurred
or payable for the service, and the cost of recording.
      3.   The date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by the
village.
   C.   The village may not claim any lien for the cost associated with the
removal of graffiti. (Ord. 11-01, 1-6-2011)
2-12-3: PRIORITY LIENS FOR REMOVAL COSTS:
The village may claim a priority for any such lien, subject to the following
requirements:
   A.   The village shall keep records of the following data regarding any
property on which such work is performed and as to which it may seek a priority
for its lien:
      1.   A dated statement finding that the property is abandoned.
      2.   The date when the property was first observed to be vacant.
      3.   A description of the actions taken by the municipality to contact
the legal owner of the property, together with a statement that no such
contacts were successful.
      4.   A dated certification by a village official of the necessity and
specific nature of the work performed.
      5.   An agreement with the person or company performing the work, if
applicable including rates and estimated costs of the work.
      6.   Detailed invoices and payment vouchers for the work.
      7.   A statement whether the work was competitively bid and a copy of all
bidders' proposals, if applicable.
   B.   The claim for lien shall be recorded in the office of the county
recorder within one year from the date the cost has been incurred.
   C.   The notice of lien shall contain at least the following information:
      1.   A description of the abandoned residential property;
      2.   The cost incurred by the village for the work;
      3.   The date or dates on which the work was performed;
      4.   Reference to the statutory authority for the priority lien, 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-15.1. (Ord. 11-01, 1-6-2011)
2-12-4: RELEASE OF LIENS:
Upon payment of the cost and expense, after notice of lien has been recorded,
the lien shall be released by the village, or by the person in whose name the
lien has been filed, and a release of lien document shall be forwarded to the
property owner as soon as practicable thereafter. (Ord. 11-01, 1-6-2011)
2-12-5: FORECLOSURE OF LIENS:
   A.   Property subject to a lien shall be sold for nonpayment of the same,
and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay the charges, after
deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such
foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the village.
   B.   The attorney for the village is hereby authorized and directed to
institute such proceedings, in the name of the village, in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which a bill for weed
cutting has remained unpaid sixty (60) days after it has been rendered. (Ord.
11-01, 1-6-2011)
2-12-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who does not perform the required work, or abate the
identified nuisance, within the required time period, or who otherwise violates
the provisions of this article, shall be subject to a fine upon conviction
hereof of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
   B.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a nuisance continues unabated after seven (7) days from receipt of
notice.
   C.   In addition to any penalties herein provided, the village may issue a
stop work order to the owner, lessee, occupant, possessor, or other person
having control of a lot under a previously issued building permit for any
violation of this article. (Ord. 11-01, 1-6-2011)
2-12-7: AGENTS, ETC., INCLUDED:
For all purposes of this article, any agent, servant, representative, or
employee of any owner, lessee, occupant, possessor, or other person having any
control of the subject property, shall be responsible for conditions on the
property, and may be served with any notice required hereunder. (Ord. 11-01, 1-
6-2011)
ARTICLE XIII
JUNK
SECTION:
2-13-1: Definitions
2-13-2: Junkyards Prohibited
2-13-3: Prohibitions
2-13-4: Removal
2-13-5: Penalty For Violation
2-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this article shall have the meanings as set
forth below:
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS: Includes all waste materials from interior
and exterior household construction, remodeling and repair projects, including,
but not limited to, drywall, plywood, and paneling pieces, lumber, and other
building materials; windows and doors, cabinets, carpeting, disassembled
bathroom and kitchen fixtures.
GARBAGE: Includes discarded and unwanted putrescible and nonputrescible
household and kitchen wastes, including, but not limited to, those resulting
from handling, processing, preparing, cooking and consuming food, including
food residues, and materials necessarily used for packaging, storing,
preparing, and consuming same.
JUNK: Includes all scrap metals and their alloys; bones; rags; used items such
as cloth, rubber, rope, tin foil, bottles, old or used machinery, tools,
utensils, appliances, lumber, boxes or crates, pipes or pipe fittings, and
other used manufactured goods that are so worn, deteriorated or obsolete as to
make them unusable in their existing condition.
MEDICAL WASTE: Potentially infectious medical waste as defined in section 3.84
of the Illinois environmental protection act.
MISCELLANEOUS HOUSEHOLD ITEMS: Include, but are not limited to, discarded and
unwanted furniture, sofas, chairs, bookcases, tables, beds, mattresses, box
springs, trash compactors, microwave ovens, televisions, computers, electronic
devices, pianos, organs, and other similar items.
RECYCLABLES: Include, but are not limited to, brown paper bags; corrugated
boxes; frozen food packages; magazines and catalogs; mixed paper; newspaper;
paperboard; telephone books; wet strength carrier stock; aerosol cans; aluminum
cans; aluminum foil; aseptic packaging and gable top containers; formed steel
containers; glass bottles and jars; plastic containers, bottles, jars and jugs
#1 through #5 and #7; plastic 6- and 12-pack rings; steel cans; steel paint
cans and lids; and household batteries.
REFUSE: Includes all combustible and noncombustible waste materials resulting
from domestic housekeeping, including, but not limited to, aluminum and steel
cans; glass containers; plastic containers; crockery and other containers;
metal; paper items of all types, including newspapers, books, magazines, and
catalogs; boxes and cartons; cold ashes; tires; furnishings, and fixtures,
household appliances of all kinds; textiles and leather; toys and recreational
items or equipment; and similar items; and all recyclables, yard waste,
household construction and demolition debris, miscellaneous household items,
white goods and other waste materials; and Christmas trees, greenery and
wreaths.
WHITE GOODS: Include, but are not limited to, refrigerators, ranges, ovens,
water heaters, freezers, air conditioners, humidifiers, de-humidifiers, and
other similar domestic large appliances, including those containing CFCs
(chlorofluorocarbons), PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls), and any mercury.
YARD WASTE: Includes all grass clippings, sod, leaves, branches and brush,
other yard and garden trimmings, vines, garden plants, and flowers, weeds, tree
droppings (for example, pine cones and crab apples), and other similar organic
waste materials accumulated as the result of the cultivation and maintenance of
lawns, shrubbery, vines, trees, and gardens. (Ord. 15-11, 3-19-2015)
2-13-2: JUNKYARDS PROHIBITED:
   A.   The operation or existence of places for the accumulation of solid
waste, scrap, waste material, debris and other material commonly described as
garbage, junk, or refuse, and any junkyard, within the corporate limits of the
village or within one mile thereof, is defined and declared to be a nuisance.
   B.   It is unlawful, within the corporate limits of the village or within
one and one-half (11/2) miles thereof, for any person, firm or corporation to
operate a place for the accumulation of solid waste, scrap, waste material,
debris and other material commonly described as garbage, junk, or refuse, or
any junkyard or business aforesaid, or to cause or permit the accumulation in
open yards or places of garbage, junk or refuse. (Ord. 15-11, 3-19-2015)
2-13-3: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave or cause or
permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding or leaving of
any garbage, junk or refuse upon any public or private property in the village,
or upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream, detention or retention area, or
any body of water in the village, unless:
      1.   The garbage, junk or refuse is placed into a receptacle or other
container intended by the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property
for deposit of such garbage, junk or refuse; or
      2.   The property has been designated by the state or any of its
agencies, a unit of local government, a school district, or the village, for
the disposal of garbage, junk or refuse and the garbage, junk or refuse is
disposed of on that property in accordance with the applicable rules and
regulations of the Illinois pollution control board.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person who is the owner, or a tenant in
possession, of private property upon which is strewn or littered garbage, junk
or refuse to fail to remove said garbage, junk or refuse after receipt of
written notice from the village.
   C.   Whenever garbage, junk or refuse is thrown, deposited, dropped, or
dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, or other conveyance in violation of this
section, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of such motor
vehicle, boat or other conveyance has violated this section.
   D.   Whenever any garbage, junk or refuse which is dumped, deposited,
thrown, or left on public or private property in violation of subsection A of
this section and is discovered to contain any item or items, including, but not
limited to, letters, bills, publications, or other writings which display the
name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the item belongs
or belonged to such person, it shall create a rebuttable presumption that such
person has violated this section.
   E.   The dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding or leaving of
any garbage, junk or refuse upon any public or private property in the village,
is defined and declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 15-11, 3-19-2015)
2-13-4: REMOVAL:
In addition to any other remedies that may be available to the village, at law
or in equity, for abatement of such nuisance, the village may remove any such
garbage, junk or refuse from the property, subject to the provisions of article
XII of this chapter. (Ord. 15-11, 3-19-2015)
2-13-5: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
   A.   Any person found to have violated the provisions of this article shall
be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) and
not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for such offense, in
addition to the costs assessed to the village by the circuit clerk for any
court proceedings.
   B.   Each day during which a violation of this article continues or is
permitted to exist shall be considered a separate and distinct offense. (Ord.
15-11, 3-19-2015)
ARTICLE XIV
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
2-14-1: Definitions
2-14-2: Regulations
2-14-3: Brush Burning
2-14-4: Limited Burning
2-14-5: Penalty
2-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
BRUSH: Tree trunks, limbs, branches, and twigs.
CEREMONIAL FIRE: An outdoor fire larger than three feet by three feet by three
feet (3' x 3' x 3') which is used for entertainment purposes as part of a
specifically scheduled public or private event, and excludes any and all
landscape waste.
GARBAGE: Any refuse products or materials, including, but not limited to, the
following: putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, sale, spoilage, or consumption of food; glass, metal or
plastic containers, products or objects discarded as no longer usable; paper,
wood and cardboard waste; and discarded furniture or clothing.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: All accumulations of leaves, flowers, and weeds from grass,
shrubbery or weeds, or clippings or cuttings thereof.
RECREATIONAL FIRE: An outdoor fire for warmth, cooking for human consumption or
temporary nonceremonial purposes where the fire is not larger than three feet
by three feet by three feet (3' x 3' x 3'), and excluding any landscape waste.
REFUSE: Garbage, rubbish, ashes, sweepings, manure, dead animals, privy or
cesspool containers, or litter.
RUBBISH: Combustible and noncombustible waste material except garbage, and
includes paper, boxes, dry grass, cans, broken crockery, glass, plastics, and
the like. (Ord. 06-45, 8-10-2006)
2-14-2: REGULATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, suffer, allow or permit
any open burning of any material, including, but not limited to, rubbish,
refuse, wood, garbage, landscape waste, or any other material, except brush, in
an open fire.
   B.   Any open burning of brush shall take place only in accordance with the
conditions expressed in this article.
   C.   The terms of this section shall not apply to the following types of
fires, whether on private property or on public property:
      1.   Burning of brush for cooking, in a domestic fireplace, in an
exterior fireplace, or in a self-contained outdoor wood burning device or
fireplace;
      2.   Burning of brush for a recreational fire;
      3.   Burning of brush for a ceremonial fire; provided, that notice of any
ceremonial fire has been given to the local fire protection district serving
the area where the fire is to take place and a permit has been obtained from
the Kane County health department. Failure to obtain the health department
permit prior to conducting the ceremonial fire shall be deemed a violation of
this article. Failure to notify the local fire protection district and obtain
its approval shall be deemed to be a violation of this article;
      4.   Burning of brush for purposes of the village department of public
works;
      5.   Burning for natural area or habitat management, maintenance,
reclamation or restoration;
      6.   Burning for firefighter training. (Ord. 06-45, 8-10-2006)
2-14-3: BRUSH BURNING:
   A.   Burning is permitted only on sunny days between ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. and three o'clock (3:00) P.M.
   B.   No burning shall be done on the paved surface of any public street,
sidewalk or alleyway in the village.
   C.   Burning shall not be permitted when the wind velocity is in excess of
ten (10) miles per hour, or when it has been determined by pronouncement of the
Kane County health department that an atmospheric inversion or an ozone alert
condition exists.
   D.   Only clean, dry brush shall be burned.
   E.   All burning must be supervised at all times until the fire has been
extinguished; the person supervising the burning shall have readily available
to him or her a garden hose connected to a source of water, or an adequate fire
extinguisher, for fire extinguishing purposes.
   F.   It is the sole responsibility of the person conducting the burning to
satisfactorily determine that all conditions under which burning shall be
permitted under this section are met during any given period when he or she
conducts such burning. (Ord. 06-45, 8-10-2006)
2-14-4: LIMITED BURNING:
Upon specific request to the village board of trustees, controlled burning on a
limited basis for a school, governmental or other institutional function, may
be allowed by the corporate authorities; provided that the corporate
authorities find that such burning will pose no undue danger or inconvenience
to adjoining property owners, and will not be detrimental to the general public
health and safety of the community. (Ord. 06-45, 8-10-2006)
2-14-5: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this article
shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
   B.   Any person who is found to have violated this section shall be subject
to a fine in accord with section
12-1-3 of this code. Burning of any toxic material, or any prior charge for a
violation of this section which has resulted in a plea of guilty or finding of
guilty, shall be considered a factor in aggravation for purposes of assessment
of a fine. (Ord. 06-45, 8-10-2006)
ARTICLE XV
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
2-15-1: Containers Required
2-15-2: Garbage Containers, Specifications
2-15-3: Collection Time
2-15-4: Penalty
2-15-1: CONTAINERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of all
premises at all times to maintain in good order and repair a container or
containers for the deposit of garbage, tin cans, bottles and similar refuse.
   B.   It shall be the duty of every owner, tenant, lessee or occupant to
deposit all garbage and refuse in such required containers. (1985 Code)
2-15-2: GARBAGE CONTAINERS, SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Garbage containers shall be watertight and made of either metal or
plastic with suitable handles for carrying and close fitting covers, or shall
be heavy gauged plastic bags of at least one and one-half millimeters (11/2 mm)
in thickness when securely tied and when the contents will not cause the bag to
tear.
   B.   Garbage containers shall have a capacity of not more than forty five
(45) gallons and the weight of the containers and its contents shall not exceed
fifty (50) pounds in weight. (1985 Code)
2-15-3: COLLECTION TIME:
   A.   No garbage or refuse of any kind shall be deposited in any street,
alley or public place, at any time, except as provided herein.
   B.   Containers of garbage or refuse, and any other household trash, refuse,
or items to be discarded may be placed on the tree bank or parkway adjoining
the public street or alley not more than twenty four (24) hours prior to
scheduled collection, and shall be so placed that any contents will not be
blown about or scattered by natural elements.
   C.   A garbage collection schedule, and any specific contractual rules
regarding garbage and refuse collection, shall be established by the
superintendent of public works, or such agent or agents as the village shall
contract for the removal and disposal of garbage, and shall be available in the
office of the village clerk for public inspection.
   D.   Residents shall also comply with any other rules established by village
contract for garbage and refuse collection, such as for collection of "white
goods" and other specific items. (Ord. 06-74, 11-2-2006)
2-15-4: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of a violation of the provisions of this article shall
be guilty of a class B misdemeanor. In addition to any other penalty provided
by law, the village or its agent or agents is authorized to refuse collection
services until such time as all requirements of this article are met. (1985
Code)
ARTICLE XVI
PENALTIES
SECTION:
2-16-1: Penalties And Fines
2-16-2: Additional Penalties
2-16-1: PENALTIES AND FINES:
   A.   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to the following fines and penalties:
      1.   Class A Misdemeanors: Every person who is convicted of an offense
under this chapter, which has been designated a class A misdemeanor, other than
driving under the influence, shall be subject to a fine of not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
      2.   Driving Under The Influence: Every person who is convicted of
driving under the influence in a local prosecution brought under this chapter
shall be subject to such penalties as are prescribed by the Illinois vehicle
code.
      3.   Class B Misdemeanors: Every person who is convicted of an offense
under this chapter, which has been designated a class B misdemeanor, other than
driving under the influence, shall be subject to a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
      4.   Class C Misdemeanors: Every person who is convicted of an offense
under this chapter, which has been designated a class C misdemeanor shall be
subject to a fine of not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
      5.   Petty Or Business Offenses: Every person who is convicted of an
offense under this chapter, which has been designated a petty offense or
business offense shall be subject to a fine of not more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 14-26, 6-5-2014)
2-16-2: ADDITIONAL PENALTIES:
In addition to any fine prescribed in this article the court may require the
payment of applicable court costs, and may impose any other or further
sentencing alternative in its discretion, including any form of public service.
The court shall consider the financial resources and ability of the offender to
pay a fine, and whether the fine will unduly hinder or prevent the offender
from making any court ordered restitution or reparation to the victim of the
offense; and the ability of the offender to comply with any other sentencing
alternatives which may be imposed. (Ord. 14-26, 6-5-2014)
ARTICLE XVII
FAIR HOUSING POLICY
SECTION:
2-17-1: Declaration Of Policy
2-17-2: Definitions
2-17-3: Prohibited Acts
2-17-4: Penalty
2-17-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
   A.   In furthering the policy of the State of Illinois as expressed in its
constitution and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace and health of all the inhabitants of the Village may be ensured, it is
hereby declared the policy of the Village, to assure equal opportunity to all
residents, regardless of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or physical disability, to live in decent, healthful living
quarters.
   B.   It is further the policy of the Village that no owner, lessee,
sublessee, assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm or corporation
having the right to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing
accommodation and/or real property within the City, or any agent of these shall
refuse to sell, rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person
or group of persons of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed, or disability in the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental
or lease of any furnishing accommodation and/or services in connection
therewith.
   C.   It is further the policy of the Village that any relocation shall be
carried out in a manner that will promote maximum choice within the community's
total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and economic concentrations; and
facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive patterns of occupancy and use
of public and private facilities. (Ord. 99-10, 6-17-1999)
2-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context, the following
terms shall have the meanings as described in this Section and as used in this
Article.
DECENT, HEALTHFUL LIVING QUARTERS: Housing which is in sound, clean, and
weathertight condition in conformance with applicable local, State, and
national codes.
DISCRIMINATE: The terms "discriminate" or "discrimination" mean any difference
expressed in any way toward a person or persons in the terms of the sale,
exchange, lease, rental or financing for housing accommodation and/or real
property in regard to such sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability
of such person.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Any person, institution or business entity of any kind
which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a secured
interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Includes any building, structure, or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or
any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
OWNER: Any person/persons who hold a legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to share of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchange or rental of a housing accommodation, and/or real property
of another, or collects rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real
property of another. (Ord. 99-10, 6-17-1999)
2-17-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sublessee,
real estate broker or salesman, financial institution, or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability with regard to
the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
   B.   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial
institution dealing with housing of real property in the Village:
      1.   To discriminate against any person in the availability of, or the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the City or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection
therewith.
      2.   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated, any
notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any form
of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real property,
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or indirectly any
discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed, or disability of any person.
      3.   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgage or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property.
      4.   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability.
      5.   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner of any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or disability of persons in the neighborhood.
      6.   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale or
listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is located.
      7.   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent, or
otherwise deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability.
      8.   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant. (Ord. 99-10, 6-17-1999)
2-17-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this Article shall
be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation. This Section shall in no way abrogate or
impair the right of the Village, to specifically enforce, by any legal means,
any of the provisions of this Article. (Ord. 99-10, 6-17-1999)
ARTICLE XVIII
NEWSPAPER DISPENSING DEVICES
SECTION:
2-18-1: Objectives
2-18-2: Definitions
2-18-3: Locations
2-18-4: Features Of Dispensing Devices
2-18-5: Violations
2-18-6: Appeals
2-18-7: Costs
2-18-8: Penalty
2-18-1: OBJECTIVES:
These regulations are intended to govern the placement, coloring, design, and
other features of newspaper dispensing devices in the central business area and
elsewhere in the village. (Ord. 03-35, 12-18-2003)
2-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
CENTRAL BUSINESS AREA: The area bounded by Jackson Street, Elm Street,
Washington Street and Rinn Street, and Park Street, in the village.
NEWSPAPER DISPENSING DEVICE: A container constructed of metal or other material
of substantially equivalent strength and durability which is used for the
dispensing of newspapers, fliers, handbills, or other similar printed
materials, at a cost or free of charge. (Ord. 03-35, 12-18-2003)
2-18-3: LOCATIONS:
   A.   Newspaper dispensing devices may be placed on private property in the
village, and on any private property in the central business area shall be not
more than six feet (6') distant from the nearest adjacent building, and set
back a minimum of eighteen inches (18") from any street curb.
   B.   No newspaper dispensing devices shall be placed on any public right of
way or any public sidewalk in the village.
   C.   No newspaper dispensing device shall be placed, installed, located or
maintained:
      1.   Within twenty feet (20') of any electric utility pole, fire hydrant,
fire station, or police station.
      2.   Within twenty feet (20') of any intersection of a street, alley,
driveway or other right of way.
      3.   Within fifteen feet (15') of any no parking zone on any adjacent
street or highway.
      4.   At any location where the width of clear space for passage of
pedestrians on a paved or other suitable hard surface is reduced to a width of
less than five feet (5').
      5.   So as to be chained or otherwise secured to any tree, utility pole,
light pole, parking meter, traffic control post, street signpost, or other
public property (unless the chain in use is coated with rubber, plastic, or
other suitable nonabrasive material). (Ord. 03-35, 12-18-2003)
2-18-4: FEATURES OF DISPENSING DEVICES:
Any and all newspaper dispensing devices in the central business area of the
village shall be as follows:
   A.   Black in color, satin in finish, with lettering in antique gold color.
   B.   Design of such boxes shall be Shorack TK-80 or equivalent.
   C.   Lettering shall be placed in the lower front panel of the rack only.
There shall be no lettering or other design on either side or the back of any
such box. Lettering shall be restricted to identifying the materials or product
available inside the box, and shall not be used for any advertising signs or
publicity purposes for any other product or service. (Ord. 03-35, 12-18-2003)
2-18-5: VIOLATIONS:
If any newspaper dispensing device, and/or any materials contained therein, be
deemed by the village to be in violation of any of the regulations contained in
this article, then the village shall first send, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, a written notice of violation to the address of the owner or
user of the newspaper dispensing device. The notice shall state a description
of why the newspaper dispensing device and/or materials contained therein are
considered to be in violation; that the owner or user is ordered to cause the
immediate removal of the newspaper dispensing device from its location; and
that the newspaper dispensing device will be removed by the village after a
date designated in the notice, which date shall be not less than fifteen (15)
days after the date of mailing. (Ord. 03-35, 12-18-2003)
2-18-6: APPEALS:
The owner or user of any newspaper dispensing device who has received a notice
of violation pursuant to section
2-18-5 of this article may request an appeal of the alleged violation, by
filing a written request with the village clerk within fifteen (15) days after
the date of mailing the notice. The appeal shall be to the village board of
trustees. The written request shall detail the reasons why the description of
the violation is in error. The appeal shall be heard by the board of trustees
as soon as practicable after the request for appeal has been received by the
clerk. The clerk shall notify the owner or user in question of the time and
date of the meeting at which the appeal is to be considered by the board. The
newspaper dispensing device may remain in place until resolution of the appeal.
(Ord. 03-35, 12-18-2003)
2-18-7: COSTS:
If the village removes any newspaper dispensing device and/or its contents,
after notice of violation sent pursuant to section
2-18-5 of this article, the owner or user of said newspaper dispensing device
shall be responsible to pay or reimburse the village for all expenses incurred
for removal, storage, and disposal of same. If the newspaper dispensing device
and/or contents thereof are not claimed by any owner or user, or if the owner
or user shall fail to pay or reimburse the village for any costs incurred
within the time specified by the village, such newspaper dispensing device and/
or contents thereof shall be deemed to be unclaimed, abandoned property and may
be disposed of pursuant to law; provided, the owner or user of same shall in
any event remain responsible for all or any portion of the amounts due under
this section remaining unpaid. (Ord. 03-35, 12-18-2003)
2-18-8: PENALTY:
Any person found to be in violation of any of the provisions of this article
shall be subject to being fined in accordance with the provisions of article 16
of this chapter. In addition, the court may upon request of the village order
the removal of the newspaper dispensing device and/or any materials contained
therein. (Ord. 03-35, 12-18-2003)
ARTICLE XIX
FIREWORKS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
2-19-1: Definitions
2-19-2: Application; Permit Required
2-19-3: Insurance Required
2-19-4: Inspection
2-19-5: Indemnification
2-19-6: State Law
2-19-1: DEFINITIONS:
Definitions shall be as set forth in the state fireworks use act, 425 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 35/0.01 et seq. ("fireworks use act"). (Ord. 06-25, 6-15-
2006)
2-19-2: APPLICATION; PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any person desiring to conduct any pyrotechnic display in the village shall
first obtain a permit therefor. Application for such permit shall be filed with
the village clerk not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the
proposed display. Any applicant for a permit must meet the eligibility and
other requirements of the fireworks use act. The applicant for permit shall
name the lead pyrotechnic operator in said application; and the permit if
issued shall identify such lead pyrotechnic operator. (Ord. 06-25, 6-15-2006)
2-19-3: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
No permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has filed
with the village clerk a certificate of insurance, for general liability
coverage, issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the state
of Illinois, and naming the village as an additional insured, in an amount not
less than two million dollars ($2,000,000.00). (Ord. 06-25, 6-15-2006)
2-19-4: INSPECTION:
No permit shall be issued unless and until the fire chief of the Hampshire
township fire protection district, or his designee, has inspected the site of
the proposed display, and has determined that the display can be performed in
full compliance with the rules adopted by the state fire marshal, and that the
display shall not be hazardous to property or endanger any person or persons.
The fire chief or his designee shall indicate such determination by signing the
permit to be issued under this article. (Ord. 06-25, 6-15-2006)
2-19-5: INDEMNIFICATION:
The applicant for and recipient of any permit issued under this article shall
indemnify and hold harmless the village, and the fire protection district, and
their respective servants, agents, and employees, from any and all claims,
demands, suits, liabilities and judgments arising out of or resulting from the
issuance of the permit, the inspection required under this article, and/or the
fireworks display itself. This indemnification shall include the costs of any
attorney fees and any court costs incurred by the indemnities for review,
investigation, discussion, negotiation, or defense of any such claim, demand,
suit, liability or judgment. (Ord. 06-25, 6-15-2006)
2-19-6: STATE LAW:
The application for permit, any permit, and any use or display of fireworks,
shall in all respects comply with the requirements of the fireworks use act,
and this article, as now in force and as amended from time to time hereafter.
(Ord. 06-25, 6-15-2006)
ARTICLE XX
LARGE GROUP OUTDOOR GATHERINGS
SECTION:
2-20-1: Permit Required
2-20-2: Termination Of Event; Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit
2-20-3: Penalty
2-20-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, group, or entity to organize, lead,
supervise, preside over, or conduct any gathering of seventy five (75) or more
persons on public property in the village without first obtaining a permit
therefor.
   A.   Any person, group, or entity proposing a gathering of seventy five (75)
or more persons, or which in fact results in a gathering of seventy five (75)
persons or more, shall apply for a permit by filing an application with the
village clerk, on a form to be provided by the village.
   B.   The application shall:
      1.   Identify the person or persons bearing overall responsibility for
the conduct of the large group outdoor gathering; and
      2.   Provide such information as is required by the village for such
permit, including a site plan and a narrative describing the conduct and
operations of the gathering event; and
      3.   Be filed with the village clerk not less than thirty (30) days prior
to the proposed gathering.
   C.   The applicant shall:
      1.   Meet with designated representatives of the village police and
public works departments and the Hampshire fire protection district, prior to
the gathering event, to review said plans; and
      2.   Take such steps that are required by the chief of police (or
designee), the superintendent of public works (or designee) and the fire chief
(or designee) to better assure the safety of participants in the gathering, and
the prompt and effective response by the fire protection district, police
department, or public works department, as the case may be, to incidents which
may arise out of or be related to the gathering. (Ord. 13-14, 5-16-2013)
2-20-2: TERMINATION OF EVENT; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Any gathering of seventy five (75) or more persons without a permit may be
immediately terminated, or any permit issued by the village for a large group
outdoor gathering, may be summarily suspended or revoked by the Hampshire
police department for any of the following reasons:
   A.   Failure to apply for and obtain a permit in advance of such gathering.
   B.   Any statement in the application for permit which proves to be false or
untrue.
   C.   Any failure of the person or persons bearing responsibility for the
gathering to conduct the gathering event in accordance with the final approved
plan for the gathering and/or the village's incident action plan.
   D.   Any incident of such nature or severity in the reasonable discretion of
the Hampshire police department as to render impossible the further safe or
healthful operation of the gathering in accordance with the approved plan for
the event or the village's incident action plan. (Ord. 13-14, 5-16-2013)
2-20-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this article shall be fined an amount
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), and not more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00), for each such violation. Each calendar day on which a
violation occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate and distinct violation
of this chapter. (Ord. 13-14, 5-16-2013)
ARTICLE XXI
ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
SECTION:
2-21-1: Definitions
2-21-2: Abandoned Vehicles
2-21-3: Storage Of Inoperable Motor Vehicles
2-21-4: Complaint Of Violation
2-21-5: Observance Of/Complaint Regarding Violation
2-21-6: Service Of Notice Of Violation
2-21-7: Investigation Of Complaint
2-21-8: Court Complaint
2-21-9: Penalty
2-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: A. Any motor vehicle for which no current license
registration has been issued by the Illinois secretary of state, pursuant to
the Illinois motor vehicle code;
   B.   Any motor vehicle from which the engine, wheels, tires, or other parts
have been removed; or a motor vehicle on which the engine, wheels, tires or
other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so maintained or treated
that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor power;
   C.   Any motor vehicle which is kept within a building when not in use shall
not be considered an inoperable motor vehicle.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Defined as set forth in the Illinois vehicle code, presently at
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-146, and as may from time to time hereafter
be redefined or designated. (Ord. 15-10, 3-19-2015)
2-21-2: ABANDONED VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to abandon a motor vehicle in any public street
or way, or on any property other than property owned by the owner of such motor
vehicle. It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to abandon any inoperable motor
vehicle in any public street or on property of any person other than that of
the owner of such motor vehicle. The chief of police or his designee is hereby
authorized to remove any such motor vehicle and make such disposal of it as may
be required to abate such nuisance. (Ord. 15-10, 3-19-2015)
2-21-3: STORAGE OF INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to have,
possess, own, permit, allow, or store any inoperable motor vehicle:
      1.   On any public property, on any private property in any residential
zoning district, on any other zoning district in which a residential use is
approved for the property on which the inoperable motor vehicle is located, or
      2.   On any other private property where having, possessing, owning,
permitting, allowing or storing inoperable motor vehicles is not customarily
incidental to the use existing on that property, whether or not in view of the
general public.
   B.   It shall also be unlawful for any person to use any premises in the
village, whether licensed for garage purposes or otherwise, to dismantle or
junk any motor vehicle and to permit such dismantled or junk motor vehicle to
remain on the premises in such condition for more than fifteen (15) days. (Ord.
15-10, 3-19-2015)
2-21-4: COMPLAINT OF VIOLATION:
Any person who observes a violation of this article may file with the police
department his affidavit setting forth in detail the violation, the location
and the name of the owner and/or occupant of the property on which such
violation is allegedly occurring. The facts set forth in said affidavit shall
be investigated, and if a violation is found to exist, the village may issue a
notice of violation to the owner or occupant of the property as provided in
this article. (Ord. 15-10, 3-19-2015)
2-21-5: OBSERVANCE OF/COMPLAINT REGARDING VIOLATION:
   A.   The village, upon observing, discovering, or confirming after an
investigation that any violation of the provisions of this article is
occurring, shall issue a notice directed to the owner of record of the property
on which said violation is occurring, or to the occupant of the property, or to
both (as such owner and/or occupant is shown by the village's water billing
records, or by the records of the Kane County recorder); or if said nuisance
occurs on public property, to the owner of the vehicle (as shown by the records
of the Illinois secretary of state).
   B.   Said notice shall describe the violation charged, and shall give notice
that said violation is to be corrected and/or eliminated and to cease by
removal, proper storage, or disposal of such vehicle, not later than fifteen
(15) days from the date of issuance of such notice. (Ord. 15-10, 3-19-2015)
2-21-6: SERVICE OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
The notice of violation shall be personally served upon the owner or occupant
of the property where such violation exists, or upon both of them, and any
person serving said notice shall make his return upon a copy of such notice,
showing the time of service, the person upon whom it was served, and the manner
in which it was served. Provided, in the event that the owner or occupant
cannot be found for personal service, service may be made by attaching a copy
of the notice upon the premises where the violation exists, and by mailing a
copy by registered mail to the last known address of such owner or occupant,
and the person(s) so attaching and so mailing said notice shall attest to same
by affidavit. (Ord. 15-10, 3-19-2015)
2-21-7: INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINT:
Immediately upon the termination of the time allowed in any such notice for
correction or elimination of the violation, the village shall investigate to
determine whether or not the violation has been corrected or eliminated. (Ord.
15-10, 3-19-2015)
2-21-8: COURT COMPLAINT:
In the event that the violation has not been corrected and/or eliminated, and
continues, the village may file a complaint in the circuit court for the 16th
judicial circuit, charging a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 15-10, 3-19-2015)
2-21-9: PENALTY:
Any person found to be in violation of the provisions of this article shall be
subject to a fine of not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) or more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), in addition to court costs incurred
in bringing said complaint. Each day that the violation continues after filing
the complaint shall be considered a new violation subject to penalty. (Ord. 15-
10, 3-19-2015)
ARTICLE XXII
TRUCK PERMITS
SECTION:
2-22-1: Definitions
2-22-2: Permits
2-22-3: Applications For Permit
2-22-4: Escorts
2-22-5: Suspension And Reinstatement
2-22-6: Fees For Special Permits
2-22-7: Penalty
2-22-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
ANNUAL PERMIT: An annual permit is a permit which allows for unlimited moves by
a specified vehicle for a period of time not to exceed three hundred sixty five
(365) days from date of issuance.
CHIEF OF POLICE: The Chief of Police of the Village of Hampshire Police
Department, or his designee.
NON-DIVISIBLE LOAD: A load is deemed to be non-divisible when the load to be
moved by the applicant vehicle cannot in the judgment of the Chief of Police
reasonably be dismantled or disassembled into smaller pieces or portions, so as
to be carried, when divided, within the maximum size or weight regulations
specified in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-301(a) of the Illinois Vehicle
Code.
QUARTERLY PERMIT: A quarterly permit is a permit which allows for unlimited
moves by a specified vehicle for a period of time not to exceed ninety (90)
days from the date of issuance.
ROUND TRIP PERMIT: A round trip permit is a permit which allows for two (2)
trips, over one route, to convey one or more loads of substantially similar
weight and dimension.
SINGLE TRIP PERMIT: A single trip permit is a permit which allows for one move
from a point of origin to a point of destination.
VEHICLE: Any truck, truck-tractor power unit, combination of vehicles, special
hauling vehicle, or special mobile equipment to be utilized to carry a load
within the Village.
VILLAGE: The Village of Hampshire. (Ord. 17-22, 7-20-2017)
2-22-2: PERMITS:
   A.   A permit shall be required for the movement of any vehicle, or
combination of vehicles, which is non-divisible, or is carrying a load which is
non-divisible, while operating on highways and bridges within the jurisdiction
of the Village while exceeding the maximum dimension and weight limits
contained within 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-102 (width), 15-103
(height), 15-107 (length), and 15-111 (weight) of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   B.   The following are exempt from the requirement of obtaining a permit:
      1.   Fire District apparatus.
      2.   Vehicles operating under a declaration of emergency by an authorized
governmental official.
      3.   Village-owned vehicles engaged in emergency utility repair.
      4.   Village or Township apparatus or equipment used for snow and ice
removal.
   C.   Permits shall be issued only in the name of a person, firm, business,
or corporation which owns and operates the transporting vehicle or which
operates said vehicle under a bona fide lease agreement.
   D.   Issued permits are valid only during the period one-half (1/2) hour
before sunrise until one-half (1/2) hour after sunset, and shall be considered
invalid on the following days: New Years Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day,
Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
   E.   Permits are non-transferable and apply only to the applicant owner/
operator, vehicle, and load to which the permit was issued.
   F.   The permit, when issued, shall constitute an agreement between the
permittee and the Village that the vehicle movement(s) described in the
application will take place without modification.
   G.   The permittee has the responsibility to report to the Chief of Police
any inaccuracies or error in the permit on the part of either the Village or
the permittee before starting any move, and undertaking the move described in
the permit shall constitute prima facie evidence of the permittee's acceptance
of the permit as issued and the terms contained within.
   H.   The routing prescribed in the permit shall constitute the sole extent
of the authority granted by the permit for the use of highways within the
jurisdiction of the Village, and any vehicle and/or load found to be off the
prescribed route will be considered to be operating without a permit. The
original permit shall be in the driver's possession in paper form and presented
upon request to any police officer or Village official for inspection.
   I.   Any vehicle or load found to be divisible shall render the permit void,
and the vehicles with the load shall be and are subject to legal size and
weight requirements. It is the duty of the applicant to confirm the non-
divisibility of the load and vehicle before making application for the permit,
and the permit application shall constitute prima facie evidence that the
applicant confirmed that the vehicle and load were each non- divisible for all
purposes under this article.
   J.   If required, arrangement shall be made by the applicant to notify the
appropriate utility companies before undertaking the vehicle movement described
in the permit, such that all affected utilities have been properly moved, any
necessary bridge or highway analysis has been performed and completed in
advance of any permitted vehicle movement.
   K.   Any person driving any vehicle, object, or contrivance upon any highway
or highway structure within the jurisdiction of the Village may be held liable
for any damage sustained, in accordance with 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
15-318.
   L.   All movements under the permit shall be made in accordance with all
applicable Federal, State and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
The provisions of this article and/or conditions imposed on any permit shall
not be more restrictive than those listed in OPER 993 form issued by the
Illinois Department of Transportation, except in extreme cases as determined in
the discretion of the Chief of Police.
   M.   The provisions and conditions of any permit issued by the Village shall
be included in and/or accompany any permit issued.
   N.   The Chief of Police at his discretion and/or at the request of the
applicant may revise any permit after issuance, subject to payment of the
applicable fee.
   O.   No person shall operate or move a vehicle within the Village under a
fraudulent permit. No permit shall be altered by the permittee in any way. Any
fraudulent permit shall be considered void. Any permit that has been altered in
any way shall be considered fraudulent and void. Whenever any vehicle is
operated or movement made under a fraudulent permit, the person, firm, or
corporation to whom such permit was granted, the driver of the vehicle and any
other accessory to the alteration, shall be charged with a violation of this
article and either one or all persons may be prosecuted for such violation
under the provisions of the Motor Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/15-301(i), or of this article.
   P.   The permits issued under this article shall constitute a grant of a
privilege by the Village and may be denied or suspended for such reasons as the
Village may deem rationally related to its governmental interests including,
but not limited to:
      1.   A permittee fraudulently provides incorrect information in an
application for a permit.
      2.   A permittee, its agents, or employees operate on a permit which has
been altered.
      3.   A permittee, its agents or employees do not comply with any Federal,
State or local ordinances, rules or regulations pertaining to the transport of
goods or operation of a vehicle engaged in the transport of goods.
      4.   A permittee, its agents or employees do not comply with the terms or
provisions of any permit issued by the Village.
   Q.   Any single trip permit shall be subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   Limited to vehicle movements on the route(s) described in such
permit, only and any additional stops outside of the prescribed route are
expressly prohibited.
      2.   Valid for five (5) consecutive days from and after the date of
issuance, unless otherwise directed by the Chief of Police.
   R.   Any round trip permit shall be subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   Valid for ten (10) consecutive days from and after the date of
issuance.
      2.   Limited to no more than two (2) trips over the same route.
      3.   Limited to conveyance of loads which are substantially similar in
both weight and dimension.
   S.   Quarterly or annual permits shall be subject to the following:
      1.   The holder of any quarterly or annual overweight permit may not use
any Village highway as a cut-thru to avoid using a State, County, or Township
highway.
      2.   All quarterly or annual overweight permits are restricted to the
following maximum limitations:
         a.   Width: Twelve feet zero inches (12'0").
         b.   Height: Thirteen feet six inches (13'6").
         c.   Length: One hundred fifteen feet zero inches (115'0").
      3.   Quarterly and annual permits are subject to all standards for
application set forth in this article, except that the load may be interchanged
provided none of the listed maximum weights and dimensions are exceeded.
      4.   Quarterly and annual permits shall list the state of registration
and registration number and the vehicle identification number (VIN) for the
vehicle to be utilized for the move(s).
   T.   Any vehicle, load, or individual operating under a permit issued by the
Village or Chief of Police shall be subject to all requirements contained
within chapter 15 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, even if not specifically
mentioned within this article or any permit issued by the Village.
   U.   The provisions of this article may be modified when deemed necessary or
advisable in the discretion of the Chief of Police to achieve the purposes of
this article. (Ord. 17-22, 7-20-2017)
2-22-3: APPLICATIONS FOR PERMIT:
   A.   All applications for permits shall be given full consideration. Permits
for proposed moves may be issued:
      1.   When the Village highways and/or bridges will not be unduly damaged;
and
      2.   When the safety of the traveling public will be adequately
protected.
   B.   Applications for a permit to move an oversized and/or overweight
vehicle, and/or load, must be filed with the Chief of Police. The following
information shall be included on the permit application in addition to any
other information deemed necessary by the Chief of Police:
      1.   Applicant's name.
      2.   Applicant's address.
      3.   Contact information (name, address if different, telephone number
and email address) for applicant or its representative for the proposed move.
      4.   Make and model of the hauling vehicle or power unit.
      5.   Description of load to be moved.
      6.   Maximum weight and dimension of the vehicle(s) to be used for the
trip, including load.
      7.   Route of travel on any highways under the jurisdiction of the
Village. (Ord. 17-22, 7-20-2017)
2-22-4: ESCORTS:
   A.   Civilian or police escorts shall be required at the discretion of the
Chief of Police. The total number of persons necessary to provide an adequate
escort for a safe move shall be determined by the Chief of Police.
   B.   Fees for a police escort shall be in addition to the permit fees set
forth herein and included in the billing, invoicing, and collection of permit
fees.
   C.   When a police escort is required as a condition of the permit, a fee or
fees shall be charged to the applicant, subject to the following:
      1.   Sixty dollars ($60.00) per hour per Police Department vehicle based
upon the actual time of the movement, with a minimum fee of three hundred
dollars ($300.00) per Police Department vehicle.
      2.   The actual time of the movement shall be the time the police escort
is required to pick up the movement to the time the movement through Village
jurisdiction is completed.
      3.   Any fraction of an hour shall be rounded up to the next whole hour.
      4.   Any delays or breakdowns shall be considered part of the movement
time and included in the calculation of the fee due. (Ord. 17-22, 7-20-2017)
2-22-5: SUSPENSION AND REINSTATEMENT:
   A.   The Chief of Police shall administer and enforce this article and shall
have the authority to grant, deny, suspend or reinstate permits. Any applicant
or permittee denied a permit or who has had a permit suspended, upon request,
shall be afforded a hearing before the Chief of Police for reconsideration of
such decision.
   B.   A permit may be suspended by the Chief of Police for the time
determined appropriate by the Chief of Police; and such permit may be
reinstated upon conditions determined by the Chief of Police, including but not
limited to payment of all outstanding fines, judgments, or settlement amounts.
   C.   No permits shall be issued to an applicant or company who has
outstanding any fee, fine, judgment or other payment due to the Village. (Ord.
17-22, 7-20-2017)
2-22-6: FEES FOR SPECIAL PERMITS:
   A.   The Chief of Police with respect to highways under Village jurisdiction
shall collect a fee from the applicant for the issuance of a permit to operate
or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles or load. The charge for each
permit shall consist of the following:
      1.   A service charge for special handling of a permit,
      2.   A fee for any dimension, axle weight, or gross weight in excess of
the maximum size or weight specified in this article, and
      3.   Any fee for special investigations or analyses undertaken pursuant
to subsection 2-22-2J of this article, and
      4.   Any fee charged for police escort pursuant to section
2-22-4 of this article.
   B.   Fees may be established from time to time considering the following:
      1.   With respect to overweight fees, the charge shall be sufficient to
compensate the Village in part for the cost of the extra wear and tear on the
mileage of highways over which the load is to be moved.
      2.   With respect to over-dimension permits, the fee shall be sufficient
to compensate the Village in part for the special privilege of transporting an
oversize vehicle or vehicle combination and load within the Village.
   C.   Fees for legal weight over-dimension loads and vehicles:
 
Single trip permit $ 20.00
Round trip permit  40.00
Quarterly permit   150.00
Annual permit      600.00
 
   D.   Fees for overweight gross loads and vehicles 80,000 pounds - 100,000
pounds:
 
Single trip permit $ 30.00
Round trip permit  60.00
Quarterly permit   250.00
Annual permit      1,000.00
 
   E.   Fees for overweight gross loads and vehicles 100,001 pounds - 120,000
pounds:
 
Single trip permit $100.00
Round trip permit  200.00
Quarterly permit   n/a
Annual permit      n/a
 
   F.   The fee for revisions to any permit after issuance shall be twenty
dollars ($20.00), or fifty percent (50%) of the original permit fee if the
original permit fee was thirty dollars ($30.00) or less.
   G.   The fees prescribed in this section shall be in addition to any other
fee or fees assessed at the discretion of the Chief of Police. (Ord. 17-22, 7-
20-2017)
2-22-7: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person found to have operated or moved a vehicle in violation of
the terms and provisions of a permit issued under this article by being off the
prescribed route shall be considered to have had no valid permit and is subject
to payment of a fine upon conviction as set out in the Illinois Motor Vehicle
Code, chapter 15, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-101 et seq.
   B.   Any person found to have operated or moved a vehicle under a fraudulent
permit, pursuant to the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/13-301,
shall be guilty of a Class 4 felony and any and all penalties prescribed by the
Uniform Code of Corrections shall apply. Provided, further, the Chief of Police
shall not for a period of one year after the date of conviction of such offense
issue a permit to any person, firm, or corporation who or which has been
convicted of such violation.
   C.   Any person otherwise found to have operated or moved a vehicle in
violation of the terms and provisions of a permit issued under this article is
subject to payment of a fine upon conviction, in accordance with the provisions
of the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-301(j),
as follows:
      1.   First offense: Not less than fifty dollars ($50.00), and not more
than two hundred dollars ($200.00);
      2.   Second offense within one year of the first offense: Not less than
two hundred dollars ($200.00), nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00);
      3.   Third or subsequent offense within one year of the first offense:
Not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00); and furthermore, no other permit shall be issued to such
person; and
      4.   Provided, any penalty imposed under this subsection C shall be
imposed in addition to any penalties imposed for violating any other provision
of the Illinois Vehicle Code or this chapter. (Ord. 17-22, 7-20-2017)
ARTICLE XXIII
CANNABIS; DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
SECTION:
2-23-1: Cannabis
2-23-2: Drug Paraphernalia
2-23-1: CANNABIS:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this article:
   CANNABIS: Shall have the meaning defined as in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 550/3(a), as amended; and shall include but not be limited to
marijuana, hashish, and other substances which are identified as including any
parts of the plant Cannabis sativa, and including derivatives or subspecies,
such as indica of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or not; the seeds
thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and any compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its
seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other naturally
produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or indirectly by
extraction; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber
produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant, any
other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such
mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or
the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination. "Cannabis"
does not include industrial hemp as defined and authorized under the Industrial
Hemp Act. "Cannabis" also means concentrate and cannabis-infused products.
   COMPASSIONATE USE OF MEDICAL CANNABIS PILOT PROGRAM: The act codified at 410
ILCS 130/1 et seq.. as enacted and as shall from time to time be amended by the
Illinois General Assembly.
   COMMUNITY COLLEGE VOCATIONAL PILOT PROGRAM: The program described at 410
ILCS 705-25-1 et seq., and as shall from time to time be amended by the
Illinois General Assembly.
   ILLINOIS CANNABIS REGULATIONS AND TAX ACT: Shall mean P.A. 101-0027, as
enacted and as shall from time to time be amended by the Illinois General
Assembly.
   B.   Possession, Use Prohibited; Other Prohibitions:
      1. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21)
years to purchase, possess, use, process, transport, grow, or consume cannabis,
except as otherwise authorized by the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Pilot Program or by the Community College Vocational Pilot program.
      2.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law authorizing the
possession of medical cannabis, no person under the age of twenty-one (21)
years shall possess cannabis.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person who is twenty-one (21) years of
age or older to possess cannabis in violation of the possession limit(s)
established by the Illinois Cannabis Regulations and Tax Act.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, inject, ingest, inhale
or otherwise introduce into the human body cannabis, or to be under the
influence of cannabis within the corporate limits of the Village, in violation
of the Cannabis Regulations and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027). Provided, however,
notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be unlawful for any individual to
possess or use cannabis consistent with the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Pilot Program Act.
      5.   It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer cannabis to any
person under twenty-one (21) years of age, with or without remuneration.
      6.   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit his or
her residence, any other private property under his or her control, or any
vehicle, conveyance, or watercraft under his or her control to be used by an
invitee of the parent's child or the guardian's ward, if the invitee is under
twenty-one (21) years of age at the time, in any manner which constitutes a
violation of the Illinois Cannabis Regulations and Tax Act.
      7.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in any of the the following
conduct:
         a.   Possessing cannabis in or at any of the following locations:
            (1)   In a vehicle not open to the public, unless the cannabis is
in a reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonably inaccessible while the
vehicle is moving;
            (2)   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act;
            (3)   On the grounds of any pre-school or primary or secondary
school, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
            (4)   In any correctional facility; or
            (5)   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises.
         b.   Using cannabis in or at any of the following locations or under
the following circumstances:
            (1) In any motor vehicle;
            (2)   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act;
            (3)   On the grounds of any pre-school or primary or secondary
school, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
            (4)   In any correctional facility;
            (5)   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
            (6)   Knowingly in close physical proximity to anyone under twenty-
one (21) years of age who is not a registered medical cannabis patient under
the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act; or
            (7)   In any public place.
         c.   Smoking cannabis in or at any place where smoking is prohibited
under the Smoke Free Illinois Act.
         d.   Operating, navigating, or being in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle, aircraft, or motorboat while using or under the influence of
cannabis, in violation of Section 11-501 or 11-502.1 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code.
         e.   Facilitating the use of cannabis by any person who is not allowed
to use cannabis under the Cannabis Regulations and Tax Act or the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.
         f.   Transferring cannabis to any person contrary to the Cannabis
Regulations and Tax Act or the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot
Program Act.
         g.   While on duty:
            (1)   In the position of a law enforcement officer, corrections
officer, probation officer, or firefighter.
            (2)   In the position of any person who has a school bus permit or
a commercial driver's license.
   C.   For purposes of this section, the term "public place":
      1.   Shall mean any place where a person could reasonably be expected to
be observed by others, including but not limited to all parts of buildings
owned in whole or in part, or leased, by the State or a unit of local
government; and also, any park space or open space in the Village; and any
street, avenue, alleyway, sidewalk, or parking area open to the public.
      2.   Shall not include a private residence, unless the private residence
is used to provide licensed childcare, foster care, or other similar social
service care on the premises.
   D.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the arrest or
prosecution of a person for reckless driving or driving under the influence of
cannabis if probable cause exists. (Ord. 18-06, 1-4-2018; amd. Ord. 20-05, 1-
16-2020)
2-23-2: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, drug paraphernalia is
defined as in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/2(d), as amended, and
includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of cannabis
plant, or from which cannabis can be derived;
      2.   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis;
      3.   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances or cannabis;
      4.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
      5.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding cannabis;
      6.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use or designed for use in packaging quantities of cannabis;
      7.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, or intended for
use, in injecting a controlled substance or cannabis into the human body,
except as authorized by the Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act;
      8.   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish oil into the
human body, such as: pipes, water pipes, cocaine spoons, roach clips or objects
used to hold burning material, such as a marijuana cigarette, or bongs.
   B.   Possession Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly
possess any drug paraphernalia within the corporate limits of the Village.
   C.   Sale To Minors Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to sell, or
offer to sell, any drug paraphernalia to any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years.
   D.   Exception: Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be unlawful for
any individual to possess drug paraphernalia, or for any person to sell or
offer to sell, any drug paraphernalia, consistent with the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act 1 , as amended, the terms of which are
incorporated herein.
   E.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this
section shall be fined a sum not greater than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). Such person shall also pay all applicable court costs. Each day that
a violation exists or continues shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord.
18-06, 1-4-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
ARTICLE XXIV
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
2-24-1: Purpose
2-24-2: Definitions
2-24-3: Permit Required
2-24-4: Permit Application
2-24-5: Duties Of The Alarm User
2-24-6: Fines For False Alarms
2-24-7: Prohibited Acts
2-24-8: Enforcement Of Provisions
2-24-9: Government Immunity
2-24-10: Penalty
2-24-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these regulations is to ensure that citizens residing in the
Village of Hampshire register their alarm systems and take necessary measures
to prevent false alarms. False alarms are a public nuisance prejudicial to the
general health, safety, and welfare of the public. These regulations are
intended to reduce the number of responses by the Hampshire Police Department
to false alarms and thereby to reduce exposure of its police officers and the
public to the dangers associated with emergency responses and waste of the
resources of the Hampshire Police Department. (Ord. 18-51, 12-6-2018)
2-24-2: DEFINITIONS:
ALARM ADMINISTRATOR: A person or persons designated by the Chief, or his
designee, to administer, control and review false alarm reduction efforts and
administer the provisions of these regulations.
ALARM COMPANY: Any person subject to licensing requirements or a company
engaged in selling, leasing, installing, servicing, or monitoring alarm
systems. This person shall be licensed and in compliance with State, County,
and City laws.
ALARM PERMIT APPLICATION: An application for authorization or consent by the
Hampshire Police Department for the installation of an alarm system.
ALARM SIGNAL: A detectable signal, audible or visual, generated by an alarm
system to which the Police Department is requested or notified to respond.
ALARM SYSTEM: Any signal device or assembly of equipment designed to signal the
occurrence of an illegal or unauthorized entry or other activity requiring
immediate attention to which the Police Department is requested to respond.
ALARM USER: Any person, corporation, partnership, proprietorship, governmental,
or educational entity or any other entity owning, leasing, or operating an
alarm system, or on whose premises an alarm system is maintained for the
protection of such premises.
AUDIBLE ALARMS: An alarm system or device that generates an audible sound.
AUTOMATIC DIAL PROTECTION DEVICE: An automatic dialing device or an automatic
telephone dialing alarm system, including any system which, upon being
activated, initiates to the Hampshire Police Department a recorded message or
code indicating a need for law enforcement response.
CANCELLATION: The process when response is terminated and the alarm company
(designated by the alarm user) notifies the Hampshire Police Department that
there is no existing situation at the alarm site requiring police response
after an alarm dispatch request. If cancellation occurs prior to police
arriving at the scene, this is not a false alarm for the purpose of a fine, and
no penalty will be assessed.
FALSE ALARM: The activation or transmission of an alarm signal through
mechanical or electronic failure, malfunction, improper installation or
maintenance, or the negligence of the alarm user, and/or his or her employee(s)
or agent(s), unless Police Department response was cancelled by the alarm user
and/or his or her alarm company before Police Department personnel arrive at
the alarm location. An alarm is false within the meaning of this definition
when, upon inspection by the Hampshire Police Department, evidence indicates
that no unauthorized event or occurrence was committed or attempted in or on
the premises, which would have activated a properly functioning alarm system.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a false alarm will not include an alarm which
can reasonably be determined to have been caused or activated by unusually
violent conditions of nature, nor does it include other extraordinary
circumstances not reasonably subject to control by the alarm user.
FALSE ALARM NOTIFICATION: An alarm request or notification for response when
the responding Hampshire police officer finds, through inspection of the
interior and/or exterior of the alarm site, no evidence of an attempted or
actual unauthorized event or occurrence and the officer has responded.
PERMIT YEAR: A twelve (12) month period beginning on the first day of the
calendar year (January 1).
POLICE DEPARTMENT: The Police Department of the Village of Hampshire.
RUNAWAY ALARM: An alarm system that produces repeated alarm signals that do not
appear to be caused by separate human action. The Village of Hampshire may, in
its discretion, discontinue police responses to alarm signals from what appears
to be a runaway alarm. (Ord. 18-51, 12-6-2018)
2-24-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall install or operate an alarm system without first obtaining an
alarm permit for said alarm system from the Hampshire Police Department. An
alarm user has the duty to complete an Alarm Permit Application and/or renewal
from the Hampshire Police Department.
   A.   An alarm permit shall be valid for a period of one calendar year
beginning January 1st and ending on December 31st.
   B.   An Alarm Permit Application fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00) is
required for an initial application. No fee is required for the yearly renewal.
   C.   Each approved alarm shall be assigned a permit number, and the alarm
user shall provide the permit number to the alarm company to facilitate
dispatch of Police Department personnel. The permit number will be issued to
the alarm user upon completion of the application process including payment of
the alarm permit fee.
   D.   Alarm permits are not transferable. When possession of the premises at
which an alarm system is located is transferred, the person obtaining
possession of the property shall file an application for an alarm permit within
thirty (30) days of the transfer date in order to continue use of said alarm.
   E.   Whenever information provided on the Alarm Permit Application changes,
the alarm user shall provide correct information to the Hampshire Police
Department within thirty (30) days of the change.
   F.   If an alarm user has one or more alarm system(s) protecting two (2) or
more separate structures, having different addresses and/or tenants, a separate
alarm permit shall be required for each structure and/or tenant. (Ord. 18-51,
12-6-2018)
2-24-4: PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   Each alarm user's Alarm Permit Application shall be held on file at the
Hampshire Police Department and must contain the following information:
      1.   Alarm user's legal name/address, and telephone number.
      2.   Name, address, and telephone number of the premises where the alarm
system is located.
      3.   Type of alarm system at the premises location.
      4.   Minimum of three (3) individuals, including their addresses and
telephone numbers, who can be contacted and will respond to the premises in the
event of an emergency, or can reset or deactivate the alarm system or who could
contact the alarm user if the alarm user is not at the protected premises.
      5.   Name, address, and telephone number of the person or company that
installed the alarm system.
      6.   The name, address, and telephone number of the person or company
that is responsible for the maintenance and repair of the alarm system, if
applicable.
   B.   An alarm permit number will not be issued until the completed
application is received and approval of the Permit Application has been granted
by the Hampshire Police Department.
   C.   An application for an alarm may be denied if the applicant then has
outstanding any indebtedness to the Village, including but not limited to any
fee or fine due for any alarm. (Ord. 18-51, 12-6-2018)
2-24-5: DUTIES OF THE ALARM USER:
Each alarm user shall at all times:
   A.   Maintain the premises and the alarm system in a method that will reduce
or eliminate false alarms.
   B.   Provide the alarm company the alarm permit number (the number must be
provided to the central dispatch and/or the communications center by the alarm
company to ensure dispatch).
   C.   Respond or cause a representative to come to the alarm system location
when notified by the Hampshire Police Department.
   D.   Not manually activate an alarm for any reason other than an occurrence
of an event that the alarm system was intended to report.
   E.   Obtain a new alarm permit number and pay any associated fees if there
is a change of ownership or occupancy at the location of the alarm.
   F.   Adjust the alarm mechanism or cause such mechanism to be adjusted so
that an alarm signal audible on the exterior of the alarm site shall sound for
not less than fifteen (15) minutes or for no longer than fifteen (15) minutes.
(Ord. 18-51, 12-6-2018)
2-24-6: FINES FOR FALSE ALARMS:
The Hampshire Police Department will charge, and collect fines for false alarms
as follows:
   A.   Any alarm user who has false alarms within a calendar year at a single
protected location will be assessed a fine according to the following schedule:
 
First and/or second false alarm                   Waived/$0.00
Third false alarm                                 $200.00
Fourth and each subsequent false alarm thereafter 300.00
Alarm permit registration fee                     75.00
Failure to register alarm system:
 First offense                                    150.00
 Second offense or thereafter                     300.00
 
Provided, multiple false alarms in one calendar day may be counted as one alarm
incident at the discretion of the Alarm Administrator.
   B.   If a false alarm is caused by technical and/or system maintenance
issues, then the false alarm event may be waived by the Alarm Administrator
upon evidentiary proof, provided by the alarm user, that the alarm system has
been maintained and/or repaired within thirty (30) days of the date of the
false alarm event. The alarm user will be responsible for submitting written
documentation as supplied by the alarm company warranting and/or documenting
repair within the thirty (30) day period.
   C.   The Hampshire Police Department will notify the alarm user in writing,
or via best method of contact, of each instance where the Police Department has
recorded a false alarm. The alarm user will have the opportunity within thirty
(30) days from the date of notification to submit a report and/or speak with
the Alarm Administrator for the purpose of showing cause as to whether
circumstances exist to warrant voiding the false alarm recordation. The Alarm
Administrator shall review the alarm user's report and/or speak with the alarm
user and issue a written finding to the alarm user as to whether or not the
false alarm recorded will be voided.
   D.   No person will install, cause to be installed, maintain, or cause to be
maintained any automatic dial protection device that dials any dispatch
telephone line. The caller must be a natural person able to convey the nature
of the call. Pre-recorded voice messages are prohibited. It is unlawful for an
individual to allow an automatic alarm, automatic dialing device, or automatic
alerting device which causes a dispatch telephone to be activated; and, whose
purpose is to establish an open telephone line with the specific intent that a
conversation between parties not actively speaking into the telephone
instrument be heard by dispatch in order to directly access emergency services
based on an overheard conversation or lack of conversation. (Ord. 18-51, 12-6-
2018)
2-24-7: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to activate an alarm system for the purpose of
summoning the Police Department when no unauthorized event or occurrence
dangerous to life or property has been or is being committed or attempted on
the premises, or otherwise to cause a false alarm.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to install, maintain, or use an audible alarm
system, which can sound continually for more than fifteen (15) minutes.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to install, maintain, or use an automatic dial
protective device that reports, or causes to be reported, any recorded message
to the Hampshire Police Department or dispatch. (Ord. 18-51, 12-6-2018)
2-24-8: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   A fine may be imposed for any of the following:
      1.   Failure to file an Alarm Permit Application;
      2.   Failure to obtain an alarm permit prior to installation or operation
of an alarm system; or
      3.   Three (3) or more false alarms occurring within any twelve- month
permit period.
   B.   An alarm shall not be deemed to be a false alarm if the alarm user
promptly provides convincing evidence to the Chief of Police or his designee
that:
      1.   An individual activated the alarm based upon reasonable belief that
an emergency, or actual, or threatened criminal activity requiring immediate
response existed.
      2.   The alarm system was activated by lightning or electrical surge that
caused physical damage to the system, as evidenced by the testimony of a
licensed alarm system contractor who conducted an on-site inspection and
personally documented the damage to the system.
      3.   The alarm experienced a power outage of four (4) or more hours,
causing the alarm system to activate upon restoration of power, as evidenced by
written documentation by their provider.
      4.   An alarm dispatch request that is canceled by the alarm company,
prior to the arrival of an officer(s), is not considered a false alarm.
   C.   If a Hampshire police officer responds and finds no evidence of
criminal activity or medical need the alarm will be classified as a false
alarm.
   D.   Failure to make payment of any fines assessed under these regulations,
within thirty (30) days from the date of the invoice shall result in suspension
of Police Department response to alarm signals that may occur at the premises
described in the Alarm User's Permit Application until payment is received.
   E.   Failure to register and obtain a renewal permit may result in no Police
Department response to an unregistered alarm site.
   F.   A written notice of suspension of Police Department response will be
mailed via U.S. certified postal mail to the alarm user.
   G.   Hampshire Police Department response will be reinstated when the alarm
user pays or otherwise resolves to the satisfaction of the Alarm Administrator
any and all outstanding fines. (Ord. 18-51, 12-6-2018)
2-24-9: GOVERNMENT IMMUNITY:
Issuance of an alarm permit by the Village shall not create any contract, duty
or obligation on the part of the Village to respond to any request or
notification, and the governmental immunities provided under Illinois law are
intended to and shall apply. (Ord. 18-51, 12-6-2018)
2-24-10: PENALTY:
Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to penalty in accordance
with §
1-4-1  of this Code. Such person shall also pay all applicable court costs and
assessments. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. (Ord. 20-05, 1-16-2020)
ARTICLE XXV
UNREASONABLE NOISE AND OFFENSIVE USE OF PROPERTY
SECTION:
2-25-1: Vehicular Noise
2-25-2: Nuisance Noise And Operation Of Certain Vehicles
2-25-3: Construction Noise
2-25-4: Grounds Maintenance Equipment Noise
2-25-5: Miscellaneous Noise Sources
2-25-6: Nuisance Noises
2-25-7: Noisy Equipment
2-25-8: Exemptions To Noise Regulations
2-25-9: Offensive Use Of Property
2-25-10: Permitting Offensive Use Of Property
2-25-11: Penalties
2-25-12: Enforcement
2-25-1: VEHICULAR NOISE:
   A.   No horn or audible signal device of any motor vehicle of any kind shall
be sounded under any circumstances except as allowed by law, nor shall a horn
or audible signal device be sounded for any unnecessary or unreasonable period
of time.
   B.   No person shall operate any motor vehicle that is subject to
registration in such a manner as to exceed the noise limits set forth in Title
35, Part 902 of the Illinois Administrative Code (Ill. Admin. Code tit. 35,
part 902). (Ord. 24-04, 2-15-2024)
2-25-2: NUISANCE NOISE AND OPERATION OF CERTAIN VEHICLES:
   A.   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any device used to
receive broadcast sound or reproduce any recorded sound if the device is
located:
      1.   On the public way; or
      2.   In any motor vehicle on a public way if the sound can be heard from
seventy-five feet (75') or more from the device. This section does not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles, trains or vehicles owned or operated by the
village. This section does not apply when the device is being operated solely
to request assistance or warn of a hazardous condition or when the device is
part of a public event approved by the village.
   B.   For purposes of this section the term "public way" means all streets,
alleys, sidewalks, boulevards. public parking lots and other public rights-of-
way located in the village. (Ord. 24-04, 2-15-2024)
2-25-3: CONSTRUCTION NOISE:
Construction activities shall comply with the construction hours set forth in
section 5-25-1 of this code. Repairs to public utilities and construction
undertaken by the village shall not have to comply with the construction hours
set forth in section 5-25-1 of this code. (Ord. 24-04, 2-15-2024)
2-25-4: GROUNDS MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT NOISE:
It shall be unlawful to operate any power-driven lawn or garden maintenance
equipment between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. or any snow blower between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
five thirty o'clock (5:30) A.M. within six hundred feet (600') of any building
used for residential or hospital purposes. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
snow blower may be used at any time within twelve (12) hours of a snowfall of
two (2) or more inches. Tree-removal services and snow-removal services
conducted by or at the direction of the village shall be exempt from this
section. (Ord. 24-04, 2-15-2024)
2-25-5: MISCELLANEOUS NOISE SOURCES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate the following equipment, indoors or
outdoors. between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. if such equipment is audible indoors from any adjacent property used
for residential or hospital purposes:
      1.   Power-operated toy models including automobiles, boats and aircraft:
      2.   Sound trucks and public address systems;
      3.   Musical instruments;
      4.   Radios, television sets, turntables, stereos and speakers;
      5.   Factory time whistles; and
      6.   Electronically powered devices that emit sound.
   B.   It shall also be unlawful to conduct garbage, yard waste or recycling
collection between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. anywhere within the limits of the village.
   C.   This section shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, trains,
vehicles owned or operated by the village or public events approved by the
village. This section shall not apply to third parties providing services on
behalf of the village if the village manager has approved different hours based
upon a written request from the third party. (Ord. 24-04, 2-15-2024)
2-25-6: NUISANCE NOISES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to cause or create any unnecessary or unusual
noise at any time which unreasonably annoys, injures or endangers the comfort,
repose, health or safety of others unless such noise is necessary for the
protection or preservation of property or of the health, safety or life of some
person.
   B.   No person owning or in possession or control of any building or
premises shall use the same. permit the use of the same or rent the same to be
used for any business, employment or residential use, or for purpose of
pleasure or recreation, if such use shall, by its boisterous nature. disturb or
destroy the peace of the neighborhood in which such building or premises is
situated, or be dangerous or detrimental to health. (Ord. 24-04, 2-15-2024)
2-25-7: NOISY EQUIPMENT:
No person or entity issued a license or permit by the village, shall operate or
permit an agent, servant or employee to operate a baler, crane, pneumatic
hammer, derrick or similar equipment if the use of which is attended by loud or
unusual noise before the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. or after the hour of
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. each day. Construction activities shall be exempt from
this section and shall comply with the construction hours set forth in section
5-25-1 of this code. (Ord. 24-04, 2-15-2024)
2-25-8: EXEMPTIONS TO NOISE REGULATIONS:
The following are exempt from the regulations in sections 2-25-5, 2-25-6 and 2-
25-7 of this code:
   A.   Sirens and bells on emergency vehicles;
   B.   Fire and burglar alarms;
   C.   Emergency management warning systems;
   D.   Train whistles and horns; and
   E.   Village-authorized events, including fireworks displays, concerts and
parades. (Ord. 24-04, 2-15-2024)
2-25-9: OFFENSIVE USE OF PROPERTY:
No owner or person in possession, charge or control of any building or premises
shall use, rent or permit the use of the same, for any business or employment
or for any purpose of pleasure or recreation, if such use shall, from its
boisterous nature, disturb or tend to disturb the peace of the neighborhood in
which such building or premises are situated, or be dangerous or detrimental to
health. (Ord. 24-04, 2-15-2024)
2-25-10: PERMITTING OFFENSIVE USE OF PROPERTY:
No person owning, possessing or occupying any building or premises shall use,
rent or permit the same to be used for any business or employment or for any
purpose of pleasure or recreation, if such use shall from its boisterous nature
disturb or destroy the peace of the neighborhood in which such building or
premises are situated, or be dangerous or detrimental to health. (Ord. 24-04,
2-15-2024)
2-25-11: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the terms and provisions of this article shall be
subject to a fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense to which a separate fine shall apply. (Ord. 24-04, 2-15-2024)
2-25-12: ENFORCEMENT:
This article may be enforced by the Hampshire Police Department and other
appropriate entities having jurisdiction over the same. (Ord. 24-04, 2-15-2024)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR REGULATIONS
Alcoholic Liquor Regulations   I
ARTICLE I
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Required For Retail Sale Of Liquor
3-1-3: Local Liquor Control Commission
3-1-4: Application For License
3-1-5: Restrictions On Licenses
3-1-6: Classification Of Licenses; Fees; Closing Hours
3-1-7: Term; Proration Of Fee
3-1-8: Teen Night Permit
3-1-9: Disposition Of Fees
3-1-10: Licenses Not To Constitute Property; Not Transferable
3-1-11: Change Of Location
3-1-12: Records
3-1-13: Sanitary Condition Of Premises
3-1-14: Employees
3-1-15: BASSET Training
3-1-16: View
3-1-17: Offenses By Licensee
3-1-18: Offenses By Persons Other Than Licensee
3-1-19: Warning To Minors
3-1-20: License To Be Posted
3-1-21: Insurance
3-1-22: Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms, as used in this
chapter, shall be construed according to the definitions given below:
ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether rectified
or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and capable
of being consumed as beverage by a human being.
BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
BOWLING ALLEY: Every establishment or building, or part of an establishment or
building, as the case may be, wherein the game of bowling, played with
composition balls and ten (10) wooden pins, is played.
CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided, that such club files with the president of the
board of trustees, at the time of its application for a license under this
chapter, two (2) copies of a list of the names and residences of its members;
and provided further, that its affairs and management are conducted by a board
of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members.
CONVENIENCE STORE: A retail facility selling both general merchandise
consisting of convenience items and food/groceries, having not more than five
thousand (5,000) square feet of floor area available to the public for the
display and sale of such items by the licensee. Gasoline may also be sold on
the premises.
HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed
and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and
guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which twenty five (25)
or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and
having one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests,
such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same
building or buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings,
structure or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and
dining room equipment and capacity.
LICENSEE: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or club holding an
alcoholic liquor license under the provisions of this Chapter.
ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead or
other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually and
regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being provided
with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and
having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare,
cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
RETAILER: A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and through the
transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or certificates, and includes and
means all sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent,
servant or employee.
SELL AT RETAIL AND SALE AT RETAIL: Refers to and means sales for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of "alcohol" or "spirits", as herein defined.
(Ord. 97-30, 9-18-1997)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED FOR RETAIL SALE OF LIQUOR:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale at retail,
transfer, give, deliver, or furnish any alcoholic liquor in the Village without
having first obtained an alcoholic liquor license as herein provided. (Ord. 97-
30, 9-18-1997)
3-1-3: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION:
The village president is hereby authorized to be the local liquor control
commissioner and shall be charged with the administration of and empowered
pursuant to the Illinois liquor control act of 1934, as amended, 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et seq., and such ordinances and resolutions relating
to alcoholic liquor as may be passed from time to time by the board of
trustees.
   A.   The village president, as local liquor control commissioner, shall be
the chief administrative officer of the local liquor control commission, which
shall consist of three (3) members, including the village president and two (2)
members of the board of trustees appointed from time to time by the president.
   B.   The local liquor control commissioner shall have the authority to
issue, suspend and/or revoke alcoholic liquor licenses in accordance with the
Illinois liquor control act of 1934, as amended, 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/1-1 et seq., village ordinances and resolutions, and any rules and
regulations established by and for said commission. (Ord. 97-30, 9-18-1997)
   C.   All actions of and decisions by the local liquor control commission
shall require a simple majority vote, including any vote to authorize the
issuance of a license under these regulations; provided, however, the local
liquor control commissioner may in his discretion issue a class G license,
under subsection 3-1-6L of this article, for any special event of one day in
duration, after his review and approval of any application of same, and subject
to such conditions as he may impose, without action by or approval of the local
liquor control commission; and for such purpose, the local liquor control
commissioner shall have the powers described in subsection F of this section.
(Ord. 14-34, 10-16-2014)
   D.   In the absence of the village president, one of the appointed members
of the local liquor control commission shall be designated acting local liquor
control commissioner and shall assume the responsibilities of such office.
   E.   The local liquor control commission shall meet from time to time as may
be necessary to carry forth its statutory duties.
   F.   The local liquor control commission shall have the right to examine, or
cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license or for a
renewal thereof of any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension
has been served as provided by statute, and to examine the books and records of
any such applicant or licensee, to hear testimony and take proofs for its
information in the performance of its duties, and for such purpose to issue
subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of the state. For the purpose of
obtaining any of the information desired by the local liquor control commission
under this section, said commission may authorize its agent to act on its
behalf. (Ord. 97-30, 9-18-1997)
3-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Applications for alcoholic liquor licenses shall be made to the local
liquor control commission, which shall have authority to grant, deny, suspend
or revoke all such licenses. Applications shall be available from the village
clerk during regular business hours. Such applications shall be made in
writing, and shall be signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly
authorized agent thereof, if a club or corporation or other entity, verified by
oath or affidavit, and shall contain the following information and statements:
(Ord. 16-11, 4-7-2016)
      1.   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation for profit or a club, the
date of incorporation, the object for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and directors, and, if a majority in interest in the
stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his nominee, the name and
address of such person.
      2.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth and, if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
      3.   The nature of the business of the applicant; and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
      4.   The length of time that said applicant has been in said business; or
in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was issued.
      5.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
      6.   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar alcoholic liquor license on premises other than described in the
application, and the disposition of such application.
      7.   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this article, laws of this state or provisions of this code.
      8.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or
by the federal government, has been revoked and the reasons thereof.
      9.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state of Illinois or of the United States, or any provision of this code in
the conduct of his place of business.
      10.   A site plan for the parcel on which the premises is located, and a
floor plan of the interior of the premises, drawn to scale; provided, that any
application for renewal of an existing license need be accompanied by a site
plan or floor plan only in the event either has changed since the original
application or last renewal thereof. (Ord. 97-30, 9-18-1997)
      11.   A copy of the certification of BASSET training for each person who
will sell or serve alcoholic beverages and/or whose job description includes
checking identifications for the purchase of alcoholic beverages at retail or
for entry into the licensed premises of a liquor establishment in the village.
(Ord. 16-11, 4-7-2016)
   B.   All applications for alcoholic liquor licenses for such classes of
licenses allowing entertainment therein shall be subject to review by the local
liquor control commission as to the acceptability of such entertainment.
   C.   All applications for alcoholic liquor licenses shall be accompanied
with the appropriate fees as designated herein and a surety bond to the village
executed by the applicant and by good and sufficient surety, to be approved by
the local liquor control commission, which bond shall be in the sum of one
thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00), and conditioned that the licensee
shall faithfully observe and conform to all state laws and all provisions of
this article and any and all hereafter passed during the period of said
license, and conditioned further for the payment of any and all fines levied
against such licensee for the violation of any of the terms and conditions of
this article and any amendments thereto, or state law, and shall be further
conditioned that the licensee shall pay all the necessary costs and charges
incurred by reason of the revocation or suspension of his license herein.
   D.   Applications for alcoholic liquor licenses and renewals of licenses
shall be considered in the same order in which they are received by the village
clerk; however, no such application shall be considered filed and received
until accompanied by the appropriate fee and surety bond. Failure to make an
application for a renewal license thirty (30) days or more before the
expiration date of the license shall be deemed a waiver of priority.
   E.   Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof; provided,
that he is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such
renewal is sought are suitable for the purposes, that he has met all of the
application requirements herein, and provided further, that the renewal
privilege herein described shall not be construed as a vested right which might
prevent the village president and board of trustees from decreasing the number
of licenses to be issued within the village.
   F.   Any application for an alcoholic liquor license which has been filed
with the village clerk on or before December 1 shall be reviewed, in form, by
the local liquor control commission prior to the issuance of licenses for the
term commencing on January 1 of the following year.
   G.   The local liquor control commission may require any applicant for a new
or renewal alcoholic liquor license to be fingerprinted, pursuant to the
Illinois liquor control commission rules and regulations. (Ord. 97-30, 9-18-
1997)
3-1-5: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES:
No alcoholic liquor license shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not a resident of any city, village or county in which
the premises covered by the license is located; except in case of railroad or
boat licenses.
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   C.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, unless the commission determines that such person has been sufficiently
rehabilitated to warrant the public trust, after considering matters set forth
in such person's application and the commission's investigation. The burden of
proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the applicant.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
   F.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   G.   A person whose license under this article had been revoked for cause.
   H.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   I.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive
a license hereunder for any reason other than residence within the political
subdivision, unless residency is required by local ordinance.
   J.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
political subdivision.
   K.   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in Illinois or unless it is a
foreign corporation which is qualified under the "business corporation act of
1983" to transact business in Illinois.
   L.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee.
   M.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this article or has forfeited his bond to appear
in court to answer charges for any such violation.
   N.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
   O.   Any law enforcing public official, including members of local liquor
control commissions, any mayor, alderman, or member of a city council or
commission, any president of a village board of trustees, any member of a
village board of trustees, or any president or member of a county board; and no
such official shall be interested directly in the manufacture, sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that a license may be granted to such
official in relation to premises which are not located within the territory
subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the issuance of such license is
approved by the state liquor control commission.
   P.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   Q.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as prescribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(10) of section 28-1, or as prescribed by
section 28-3, of the "criminal code of 1961", approved July 28, 1961, as
heretofore or hereafter amended, or as prescribed by any statute replacing any
of the aforesaid statutory provisions; or as prescribed by the Illinois video
gaming act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/5-1-1 et seq., as now in effect
or as hereafter amended.
   R.   A person to whom a federal gaming device stamp or a federal wagering
stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax period.
   S.   A copartnership to which a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax
period, or if any of the partners have been issued a federal gaming device
stamp or federal wagering stamp by the federal government for the current tax
period.
   T.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than twenty percent (20%) of the stock
of such corporation has been issued a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp for the current tax period.
   U.   Any premises for which a federal gaming device stamp has been issued by
the federal government for the current tax period. (Ord. 12-19, 7-19-2012)
3-1-6: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES; CLOSING HOURS:
Every person engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in the village
shall pay an annual license fee. Such licenses shall be divided into the
following classes:
   A.   Class A-1 License - Taverns/Carryout Sales:
      1.   Licenses for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquors, over the
counter, for consumption on the premises as well as retail sales of such
alcoholic liquors in the original package for consumption off the premises.
      2.   The annual fee for a class A-1 license shall be established from
time to time by the board of trustees.
      3.   Establishments or premises holding a class A-1 liquor license shall
close each night at one o'clock (1:00) A.M., except that on Sunday night they
shall close at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, and shall be closed at the
following times each week:
 
1:00 A.M. through 10:00 A.M. on Sunday
12:01 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. on Monday
1:00 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. on Tuesday through Saturday
 
      4.   Entertainment shall be allowed in the establishment and on the
premises holding a class A-1 license for no additional fee, but acceptability
of all entertainment shall be subject to review by the local liquor control
commission.
      5.   Outdoor seating may be allowed in accordance with the provisions of
Article XIII, Chapter 4 of this code.
   B.   Class A-2 License - Taverns/No Carryout Sales:
      1.   Licenses for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquors, over the
counter for consumption on the premises.
      2.   The annual fee for a class A-2 license shall be established from
time to time by the board of trustees.
      3.   Establishments or premises holding a class A-2 liquor license shall
close each night at one o'clock (1:00) A.M., and shall be closed as follows:
 
1:00 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. Sunday through Saturday of each week
 
      4.   Entertainment shall be allowed in the establishment and on the
premises holding a class A-2 license for no additional fee, but acceptability
of all entertainment shall be subject to review by the local liquor control
commission.
      5.   Outdoor seating may be allowed in accordance with the provisions of
Article XIII, Chapter 4 of this code.
   C.   Class B-1 License - Package Sales:
      1.   Licenses for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquors on the
premises, solely in the original package and not for consumption on the
premises.
      2.   The annual fee for a class B-1 license shall be established from
time to time by the board of trustees.
      3.   Establishments or premises holding a class B-1 liquor license shall
close each night at one o'clock (1:00) A.M., except that on Sunday night they
shall close at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, and shall be closed at the
following times each week:
 
1:00 A.M. through 8:00 A.M. on Sunday
12:01 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. on Monday through Saturday
 
      4.   No entertainment shall be permitted in an establishment or on
premises holding a class B-1 license.
   D.   Class B-2 License - Package Sales In Food/Convenience Stores:
      1.   Licenses for the sale at retail of beer and wine only for
consumption off the premises only.
      2.   The annual fee for a class B-2 license shall be established from
time to time by the board of trustees.
      3.   There shall be no sales of alcoholic liquors in any establishment or
premises holding a B-2 liquor license after one o'clock (1:00) A.M. each night,
except that on Sunday night they shall not sell alcoholic liquors after twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight, and shall be prohibited from the sale of alcoholic
liquors between the following times each week:
 
1:00 A.M. through 10:00 A.M. on Sunday
12:01 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. on Monday through Saturday
 
      4.   No entertainment shall be allowed in an establishment or on premises
holding a class B-2 license.
   E.   Class C-1 License - Restaurants:
      1.   Licenses for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquors in restaurants
for consumption on the premises, as well as retail sales of beer and wine only
in restaurants in the original package for consumption off the premises.
      2.   The annual fee for a class C-1 license shall be established from
time to time by the board of trustees.
      3.   Establishments or premises holding a class C-1 liquor license shall
close each night at one o'clock (1:00) A.M., except that on Sunday night they
shall close at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, and shall be closed at the
following times each week:
 
1:00 A.M. through 10:00 A.M. on Sunday
12:01 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. on Monday
1:00 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. on Tuesday through Saturday
 
      4.   Entertainment shall be allowed in the establishment and on the
premises holding a class C-1 license for no additional fee, but acceptability
of all entertainment shall be subject to review by the Local Liquor Control
Commission.
      5.   Outdoor seating may be allowed in accordance with the provisions of
Article XIII, Chapter 4 of this code.
   F.   Class C-2 License - Restaurants:
      1.   Licenses for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquors in restaurants
for consumption on the premises, provided, said alcoholic liquor shall be
served only in conjunction with the service of food to patrons.
      2.   The annual fee for a class C-2 license shall be established from
time to time by the Board of Trustees.
      3.   Establishments or premises holding a class C-2 liquor license shall
close each night at one o'clock (1:00) A.M., except that on Sunday night they
shall close at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, and shall be closed at the
following times each week:
 
1:00 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. on Sunday
12:01 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. on Monday
1:00 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. on Tuesday through Saturday
 
      4.   Entertainment shall be allowed in the establishment and on the
premises holding a class C-2 license for no additional fee, but acceptability
of all entertainment shall be subject to review by the Local Liquor Control
Commission.
      5.   Outdoor seating may be allowed in accordance with the provisions of
Article XIII, Chapter 4 of this code.
   G.   Reserved.
   H.   Class C-4 License - Restaurants/No Carryout Sales:
      1.   Licenses for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquors in restaurants
for consumption on the premises only, whether or not in conjunction with the
service of food.
      2.   The annual fee for a class C-4 license shall be established at one
thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($1,250.00), and may be adjusted from time
to time by the board of trustees.
      3.   Establishments or premises holding a class C-4 liquor license shall
close each night at one o'clock (1:00) A.M., except that on Sunday night they
shall close at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, and shall be closed at the
following times each week:
 
1:00 A.M. through 10:00 A.M. on Sunday
12:01 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. on Monday
1:00 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. on Tuesday through Saturday
 
      4.   Entertainment shall be allowed in the establishment and on the
premises holding a class C-4 license for no additional fee, but acceptability
of all entertainment shall be subject to review by the Local Liquor Control
Commission.
      5.   Outdoor seating may be allowed in accordance with the provisions of
Article XIII, Chapter 4 of this code.
   I.   Class D License - Hotels/Motels:
      1.   Licenses for the sale of alcoholic liquors in hotels and motels
operating a dining room as a service for consumption on the premises only.
      2.   The annual fee for a class D license shall be established from time
to time by the board of trustees.
      3.   Establishments or premises holding a class D liquor license shall
close each night at one o'clock (1:00) A.M., except that on Sunday night they
shall close at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, and shall be closed at the
following times each week:
 
1:00 A.M. through 10:00 A.M. on Sunday
12:01 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. on Monday
1:00 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. on Tuesday through Saturday
 
      4.   Entertainment shall be allowed in the establishment and on the
premises holding a class D license for no additional fee, but acceptability of
all entertainment shall be subject to review by the Local Liquor Control
Commission.
      5.   Outdoor seating may be allowed in accordance with the provisions of
Article XIII, Chapter 4 of this code.
   J.   Class E License - Banquets:
      1.   Licenses for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquors in a banquet
facility on the premises, in conjunction with hors d'oeuvres and/or meals on
the premises.
      2.   The annual fee for a class E license shall be established from time
to time by the board of trustees.
      3.   Establishments or premises holding a class E liquor license shall
close each night at one o'clock (1:00) A.M., except that on Sunday night they
shall close at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, and shall be closed at the
following times each week:
 
1:00 A.M. through 10:00 A.M. on Sunday
12:01 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. on Monday
1:00 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. on Tuesday through Saturday
 
      4.   Entertainment shall be allowed in the establishment and on the
premises holding a class E license for no additional fee, but acceptability of
all entertainment shall be subject to review by the Local Liquor Control
Commission.
   K.   Class F License - Incorporated Clubs:
      1.   Licenses granted to a club for the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquors, as well as other retail sales of such alcoholic liquors in the
original package to members of the club.
      2.   The annual fee for a class F license shall be established from time
to time by the board of trustees.
      3.   Establishments or premises holding a class F liquor license shall
close each night at one o'clock (1:00) A.M., except that on Sunday night they
shall close at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, and shall be closed as follows:
 
1:00 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. on Sunday
12:01 A.M. on Sunday through 6:00 A.M. on Monday
1:00 A.M. through 6:00 A.M. Tuesday through Saturday
 
      4.   Entertainment shall be allowed in the establishment and on premises
holding a class F license for no additional annual fee, but acceptability of
all entertainment shall be subject to review by the Local Liquor Control
Commission.
   L.   Class G License - Special Events:
      1.   A license for sale of alcoholic beverages at a special event may be
obtained for a license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
      2.   Said license shall be designated a special event alcoholic liquor
license, and shall be utilized by churches, schools, corporations,
associations, not for profit organizations, and other entities separately or in
conjunction with a village sponsored event.
      3.   The applicant for such license shall complete a proper application
form bearing the criteria for issuance, upon terms set forth by the local
liquor control commission. The applicant for such a license shall complete and
file the application with the village clerk not less than thirty (30) days
prior to date of issuance of the license.
      4.   The application shall specify the nature and duration of the special
event, , and the license when issued shall specify the date(s) when, the place
where, and any conditions, including conditions regarding entertainment, if
applicable, under which such special event shall be conducted. The holder of a
Class G special events license shall be allowed to sell and serve alcoholic
beverages during the scheduled hours of said event as detailed in the
application for said license, but in any case said holder shall not commence
the sale and service of alcoholic beverages on each scheduled day of said event
earlier than ten o'clock (10:00) A.M., and shall cease the sale and service of
alcoholic beverages not later than one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the next following
day.
      5.   Said license shall allow its holder to sell alcoholic beverages
between the hours of one minute past twelve o'clock (12:01) P.M. through twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight on any day for which said license has been issued,
unless otherwise restricted pursuant to subsection L4 of this section.
      6.   Entertainment may be allowed in the establishment and/or on premises
holding a class G license for no additional fee, but acceptability of all
entertainment shall be subject to review and approval and imposition of
conditions before issuance of any license.
      7.   Any such application shall be subject to review and approval, and
imposition of conditions, in accordance with section
3-1-3 of this article, by either the liquor control commissioner, or the local
liquor control commission, as the case may be.
      8.   A person or entity shall be entitled to no more than two (2) special
event licenses in any one calendar year.
   M.   Class H License - Beauty Salon Or Spa:
      1.   Licenses for the retail sale and delivery of wine beverages by the
drink to customers of beauty shops, spas, salons and personal cosmetic
establishments, exclusively as an adjunct to a principal beauty shop, spa,
salon or personal cosmetic business, strictly incidental to the customer's
receipt of personal beauty and cosmetic services, and for consumption on the
personal cosmetic establishment premises only. The retail sale of wine
beverages by the drink pursuant to a class H license is expressly subject to
the following further conditions:
         a.   The retail sale of wine beverages to a customer of the personal
cosmetic establishment is limited to one drink per hour, and no customer shall
be served more than two (2) wine beverages during the permitted hours of retail
sale of wine beverages during any single calendar day.
         b.   Customers and patrons shall not be served wine beverages unless
receiving contemporaneous spa/salon services from the license holder.
         c.   No live entertainment of any nature is permitted on the licensed
premises.
         d.   No window or any other signage visible from the outside of the
business shall be permitted on the specified premises or surrounding property
that indicates that wine beverages are available for retail sale at the
specified premises, provided, however, that the business identification signage
may contain the word "bar", and provided further that the word "bar" is only
used as part of the business name.
         e.   No person holding a class H license issued pursuant to this
chapter shall sell, offer, deliver, or permit to be sold, offered for sale,
given away or delivered, any alcoholic liquor except between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. Monday through
Saturday.
      2.   The annual fee for a class H license shall be established at five
hundred dollars ($500.00), and may be adjusted from time to time by the board
of trustees.
   N.   Class I License - Hampshire Township Park District:
      1.   A license for the sale at retail of beer and wine only, as follows:
         a.   To patrons of special adult events or classes conducted or
sponsored by the park district, and strictly incidental to the patron's
participation in such event or class, wine beverages only, by the drink, for
consumption on the premises where the event or class is conducted only; and
         b.   For special events sponsored or conducted by the park district,
on park district property, beer and wine beverages, by the drink, for
consumption on the grounds only.
      2.   Events and classes allowed under this classification shall be
limited to not more than a total of twenty five (25) per calendar year. For
purposes of this subsection N, an event may be more than one day, as approved
by the local liquor control commission, and each day of any class shall be
considered a separate class.
      3.   The fee for a class I liquor license shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00) per year.
      4.   The park district shall in its annual application for liquor license
identify the events and/or classes at which alcoholic liquors shall be
available, and any conditions under which such class or event is to take place,
including, but not limited to, date(s) and times; provided, if not then known,
whenever an event or class is thereafter to be sponsored or conducted by the
park district, the park district shall not later than twenty one (21) days
prior to the date of the event notify the village clerk of the hours, nature
and location of the proposed event or class. Any such event or class shall be
subject to review and approval by the local liquor control commissioner, who
may in his discretion refer it to the local liquor control commission for
review and approval.
      5.   Entertainment may be allowed in conjunction with any such event or
class for no additional fee, provided, the hours and acceptability of any such
entertainment shall be subject to the prior approval of the local liquor
control commission.
      6.   The holder of a class I license shall not sell, offer, deliver, or
permit to be sold, offered for sale, given away or delivered, any alcoholic
liquor except between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight on any day; provided, the local liquor control commission may
further limit the sale, offering for sale, giving away, and/or delivering of
alcoholic liquors for any particular event or class specified by the park
district in its annual application for such license or otherwise.
      7.   The local liquor control commission may as a condition of approval
of such license impose any other restrictions, limitations, or conditions under
which such event or class may be conducted pursuant to such license.
   O.   Class J License: Video Gaming Cafe
      1.   A Class J license shall be for the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquors, on the premises only, and specifically within the building located on
the premises, provided the licensed premises also has, maintains and lawfully
operates video gaming terminals (as defined under the Illinois Video Gaming
Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.) within the licensed establishment.
      2.   A Class J license shall be issued to premises located only within
one of the following Zoning Districts:
         a.   B-1 Central Business District
         b.   B-2 Community Business Zoning District
         c.   B-3 Service Business Zoning District
      3.   The annual fee for a Class J license shall be as set from time to
time by the Board of Trustees; provided, the license fee may be refunded if a
license for video gaming terminals for the prospective licensee is denied after
issuance of such liquor license, also provided the Village shall retain two
hundred dollars ($200.00) as an administrative fee therefor; and otherwise, the
license fee once paid shall not be refundable or prorated.
      4.   Establishments or premises holding a Class J liquor license shall
close each night at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, except that on Friday and
Saturday night they shall close no later than one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the
following day, and they shall be closed at the following times each week:
twelve o’clock one minute (12:01) A.M. through six o’clock (6:00) A.M. on
Monday through Friday, and one o’clock (1:00) A.M. through six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. on Saturday and Sunday.
      5.   Food and food products may be prepared on site and offered to
customers on the premises of a Class J license during all hours of operation,
subject to applicable building, health, and safety regulations. For purposes of
this regulation, "prepared" shall mean assembly, cooking, and preparing of
original ingredients, as well as of frozen or pre-packaged items, for service
to and consumption by customers, on the premises. The license holder may
utilize a food preparation area; a cooler and/or freezer; a convection oven,
and/or a microwave oven for such preparation of food.
      6.   No person under the age of twenty-one (21) shall be allowed on the
licensed premises at anytime.
      7.   Live music, DJ's, and/or karaoke events, and/or jukeboxes are
prohibited on the licensed premises. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an internal
music system, operated solely by the licensee, shall be permitted so long as
such system is operated at a level of volume so as to not be heard outside the
licensed premises.
      8.   There shall be no outdoor patio or beer garden, or any outside
seating of any kind, for patrons.
      9.   No games, other than the video gaming terminals as defined under the
Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., shall be permitted on the
licensed premises, including, but not limited to, pool, darts, shuffleboard or
any coin-operated amusement device.
      10.   The holder of a Class J license shall during all hours of operation
provide and operate video surveillance equipment covering the area occupied by
video gaming machines on the premises.
      11.   If the building space licensed for and occupied by the holder of a
Class J license is located within or shared with another business, then the
licensed space must be fully segregated by walls extending from floor to
ceiling and must have a separate outside entrance. The retail sale and
consumption of alcoholic liquor may take place only within said licensed and
segregated space.
   P.   Late Hours: Licensees holding class A-1, A-2, C-1, C-2, D, E, F and J
licenses shall be allowed to stay open until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on the
morning immediately following New Year's Eve only.
   Q.   Sales Promotional Event: Upon application for an approval of a permit
therefor, the holder of any valid liquor license in the village may conduct a
sales promotional event, such as a tasting or sampling session, for a duration
not to exceed three (3) hours on any one day, and subject to such other
restrictions and conditions as the Liquor Commission may impose in the permit.
      1.   The applicant for such permit shall complete a proper application
form, and file same with the Village Clerk, not less than thirty (30) days
prior to the date of issuance of the permit.
      2.   The application shall specify the date and time, and the sponsor or
participating vendor (if any), and any pertinent conditions under which said
sales promotional event shall be conducted.
      3.   Any sales promotional event permitted under this subsection shall
take place only indoors and within the hours of operation otherwise permitted
to the license holder.
      4.   No license holder shall be entitled to more than six (6) permits for
a sales promotional event in any one calendar year, and not more than one in
any calendar month.
      5.   Entertainment shall be allowed in the establishment and/or on the
premises of the license holder during any sales promotional event, but the
acceptability of any such entertainment shall be subject to review by and
approval of the Liquor Commission.
      6.   An appropriate certificate of insurance, covering the dispensing of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on site, must be filed with the Village
Clerk.
      7.   Any person or persons who will be dispensing alcoholic beverages
during the special event shall apply for a bartender permit and shall pay the
applicable bartender license fee to the Village prior to the event, unless
otherwise excused by the Liquor Commission.
      8.   The Liquor Commission may impose such other conditions and/or
restrictions on any permit for a sales promotional event as it deems reasonable
or necessary.
   R.   Number Of Licenses: The number of alcoholic liquor licenses to be
issued in the Village shall be as follows:
Class A-1 Taverns/carry out                   3
Class A-2 Taverns/no carry out                1
Class B-1 Package sales                       4
Class B-2 Package sales/convenience store     4
Class C-1 Restaurant/retail sale - beer, wine 4
Class C-2 Restaurant/service with food        3
Class C-4 Restaurant/on premises              0
Class D   Hotels/motels                       0
Class E   Banquet halls                       0
Class F   Clubs                               0
Class G   Special events                      n/a
Class H   Beauty salons/spas                  0
Class I   Park District                       1
Class J   Video Gaming License                1
Total                                         20
 
   S.   Product Sampling and Product Tastings.
      1.   The holder of any valid liquor license in the Village may engage in
product sampling on the licensed premises, in accordance with state law, 235
ILCS 5/6-31, provided:
         a.   All license holders and employees of such license holders
engaging in such product sampling shall comply with the requirements for an
"employee" under §§
3-1-14 and
3-1-15 of the Village Code, and specifically, shall have BASSETT training;
provided, any distributor or importing distributor engaging in such product
sampling in the Village need not obtain such BASSETT training; and
         b.   The hours for product sampling in any licensed liquor
establishment may be limited by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner; and
         c.   For purposes of this Section R, an "on-premises retail licensee"
per 235 ILCS 5/6-31(b) shall mean the holder of any A-1, A-2, C-1, C-2 or C-
3 liquor license in the Village.
      2.   The holder of any valid liquor license in the village for sale at
retail of products in the original package for consumption off the premises (an
"off-premise licensed retailer") may engage in product tastings.
         a.   For purpose of this section, "tasting" means "a supervised
presentation of alcoholic products to the public at an off-premise licensed
retailer" conducted for the purpose of disseminating product information and
education, with consumption of alcoholic products being an incidental part of
the presentation, in compliance with the requirements of the Illinois
Administrative Code, Title 11, Section 100.10 et seq.
         b.   All license holders and employees of such license holders
engaging in such product tastings shall comply with the requirements for an
"employee" under §§
3-1-14 and
3-1-15 of the Village Code, and specifically, shall have BASSETT training;
provided, a registered tasting representative engaging in such product tasting
need not obtain such BASSETT training; and
         c.   The hours for product tastings in any licensed liquor
establishment may be limited by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner; and
         d.   For purposes of this sub-section R(2), a "off-premises licensed
retailer" per Illinois Administrative Code, Title 11, §100.10 shall mean the
holder of a Class B-1 or Class B-2 liquor license in the Village.
(Ord. 97-30, 9-18-1997; amd. Ord. 02-11, 6-6-2002; Ord. 02-22, 7-18-2002; Ord.
05-30, 8-11-2005; Ord. 06-44, 8-10-2006; Ord. 06-75, 12-14-2006; Ord. 09-11, 3-
5-2009; Ord. 09-12, 4-3-2009; Ord. 13-16, 6-20-2013; Ord. 14-32, 8-7-2014; Ord.
14-34, 10-16-2014; Ord. 18-14, 3-15-2018; Ord. 18-22, 7-5-2018; Ord. 19-03, 2-
21-2019; Ord. 19-10, 5-2-2019; Ord. 19-11, 5-2-2019; Ord. 19-15, 6-20-2019;
Ord. 19-16, 7-12-2019; Ord. 20-25, 8-20-2020; Ord. 22-16, 7-26-2022; Ord. 22-
22, 9-15-2022; Ord. 22-36, 12-1-2022; Ord. 23-02, 2-16-2023; Ord. 23-06, 5-4-
2023)
3-1-7: TERM; PRORATION OF FEE:
The term of each alcoholic liquor license shall commence on January 1 and shall
terminate on December 31 next following its issuance. The license fee shall be
paid in advance and there shall be no refund of any portion of the fee except
that the fee to be paid for a license issued between the months of February and
December shall be reduced in proportion to the full calendar months which have
expired. (Ord. 97-30, 9-18-1997)
3-1-8: TEEN NIGHT PERMIT:
   A.   There is established a teen night permit. A teen night permit shall be
granted only upon submittal of an application to the Local Liquor Control
Commission, and for an establishment which then holds a valid Class A-1, A-2,
C-1, C-2, D, E, or F license. The permit shall entitle the holder to provide
entertainment of the following nature, but not limited to: dance, concert, or
other similar form of entertainment at which the patrons will be persons
between the ages of eighteen (18) to twenty (20) years. No alcoholic liquor may
be displayed, sold, advertised, served, possessed or consumed at any time
during any teen night event.
   B.   Any application for a teen night permit must contain the following
information:
      1.   The number of employees and/or performers to be used for the event;
      2.   Designation of an individual who will be available prior to and
during the event and who shall have authority to accept complaints, notice of
violations, or take corrective actions required by the village;
      3.   A security plan, detailing the capacity of the establishment,
together with an acknowledgment that any changes to the security plan must be
submitted to and approved by the chief of police, in writing, five (5) business
days before the event; a special detail of village police may be required as
part of the security plan, in a number to be determined by the chief of police,
and the expense thereof shall be paid for in advance by the permit holder;
      4.   A copy of any advertising for the teen night event, and a list of
places where such advertising is to occur;
      5.   Complete address and location which is to be used for the purposes
of the event.
   C.   Any teen night permit issued by the local liquor control commission
shall also be subject to the following limitations:
      1.   Tickets shall be sold or distributed in advance, and the number of
tickets shall be limited to the occupancy limit of the premises (minus any
employees and performers).
      2.   Security shall be provided as set forth in the approved security
plan.
      3.   Security personnel as detailed in the security plan shall be
required on the premises at all times during the event.
      4.   At the request of the chief of police and/or the local fire
protection district chief, the licensee shall allow an inspection of the
premises prior to opening.
      5.   No members of the general public shall be allowed in prior to the
opening of the event.
      6.   Automatic or manually operated counters shall be utilized at the
door to determine the actual occupancy of the building during the event.
      7.   Only the holder of the liquor license for the establishment may
apply for the event.
      8.   The hours of a teen night shall extend no later than twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight. (Ord. 97-30, 9-18-1997)
3-1-9: DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All alcoholic liquor license fees shall be paid to the village clerk at the
time the application is made, and shall be forthwith turned over to the village
treasurer. In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be
returned to the applicant; if the license is granted, then the fee shall be
deposited in the general fund or in such other fund as shall have been
designated by the board of trustees by proper action. (Ord. 97-30, 9-18-1997)
3-1-10: LICENSES NOT TO CONSTITUTE PROPERTY; NOT TRANSFERABLE:
An alcoholic liquor license shall be purely a personal privilege and shall be
valid for the time specified therein unless sooner revoked or suspended, and
shall not constitute property nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution; nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to be encumbered or hypothecated. Such
license shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but
it shall cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic
liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of
the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt until the expiration of such license
after the death of such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the
expiration of such license, but no longer than six (6) months after the death,
bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made of that
portion of the license fees paid for any full calendar month in which the
licensee shall be prevented from operating under such license in accordance
with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 97-30, 9-18-1997)
3-1-11: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
A retail alcoholic liquor license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor
only in the premises described in the application and license. Such location
may be changed only upon the written permit to make such change issued by the
local liquor control commission. No change of location shall be permitted
unless the proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor under the laws of this state and the provisions of this
article. (Ord. 97-30, 9-18-1997)
3-1-12: RECORDS:
A licensee holding a class C-1 or C-2 license shall keep or cause to be kept,
at the licensed premises, records showing all sales such that the licensee can
document that fifty percent (50%) or more of the gross revenue in any month
from the operation of the licensed premises is derived from the serving of
meals. Such records shall, at all times during business hours of the day, be
subject to inspection by representatives of the liquor commission and copies
thereof shall be produced to the liquor commission within seven (7) days of a
written request for same. Such records shall be preserved for a minimum period
of two (2) years. Failure to maintain or produce such records is unlawful and
shall be cause for revocation of the license to sell any alcoholic liquor. The
information contained in such records shall be held in confidence by the liquor
commission unless such records are to be utilized in any hearings on any
charges brought against the licensee. (Ord. 97-30, 9-18-1997)
3-1-13: SANITARY CONDITION OF PREMISES:
All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage of
such liquor for such sale, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and
shall be kept in full compliance with applicable laws of the state and
ordinances of the village regulating the condition of premises used for the
storage or sale of food for human consumption. (Ord. 97-30, 9-18-1997)
3-1-14: EMPLOYEES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to employ in any premises used for the sale
of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a carrier of,
any contagious, infectious or venereal disease; and it shall be unlawful for
any person who is afflicted with or is a carrier of any such disease to work in
or about any premises or to engage in any way in the handling, preparation or
distribution of such alcoholic liquor. (Ord. 97-30, 9-18-1997)
3-1-15: BASSET TRAINING:
   A.   No person shall act as an alcohol server in the village after July 1,
2016, unless such person has previously successfully completed a state
certified beverage alcohol sellers and server education and training (BASSET)
program, in accordance with the requirements of 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/6-27.1, as currently enacted and as hereafter may be modified from time to
time; provided, a person newly employed as an alcohol server shall complete
said training within one hundred twenty (120) days after the alcohol server
begins his or her employment.
      1.   For purposes of this section, the term "alcohol server" means a
person who sells or serves alcoholic beverages at retail, and anyone whose job
description entails the checking of identification for the purchase of
alcoholic beverages at retail or for entry into the licensed premises of a
liquor establishment in the village.
      2.   Each alcohol server shall at all times maintain and make available
upon request by any state or local liquor control authorities a certificate
evidencing his or her completion of BASSET training. (Ord. 16-11, 4-7-2016)
3-1-16: VIEW:
In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption upon the
premises is licensed, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, display of any
kind, or any other thing shall be permitted in the windows or upon the doors of
such premises nor inside such licensed premises, and no booth, screen,
partition or other obstruction, nor any arrangement of lights or lighting shall
be permitted in or about the interior of such premises which shall prevent a
full view of the entire interior of such premises at all times.
All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises shall be
continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or artificial white
light so that all areas of the premises where alcoholic liquor is sold, served,
and/or consumed shall be clearly visible at all times.
In case the view of any such licensed premises required by the foregoing
provisions shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee or wilfully allowed by
him to be obscured or obstructed, then such license shall be subject to
revocation as otherwise provided in this chapter. (Ord. 97-30, 9-18-1997)
3-1-17: OFFENSES BY LICENSEE:
No licensee under the provisions of this chapter shall for himself or herself,
or through his or her agents or employees, do any of the following:
   A.   General:
      1.   Make any sale of alcoholic liquor in violation of the authority
granted the licensee pursuant to this chapter or in violation of the laws of
the state.
      2.   Sell or possess for sale any package containing alcoholic liquor
unless the same shall have affixed thereto all canceled revenue stamps which
may be required by law.
   B.   Minors And Others:
      1.   Sell alcoholic liquor to any person who is under the age of twenty
one (21) years.
         a.   Whenever the holder of a liquor license issued by the village, or
any of his or her agents or employees, believes, has reason to believe, or
reasonably should have had reason to believe that a sale or delivery of any
alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the age of the prospective recipient,
he or she shall, before making such sale or delivery, demand from such
prospective recipient presentation of an identification document, such as a
driver's license, containing proof of age, and issued by a public officer in
the performance of his or her official duties.
      2.   Sell alcohol liquor to any intoxicated person, habitual drunkard, or
insane, feeble minded or distracted person.
      3.   Employ or permit the employment of any minor in his place of
business except in connection with activities not related to the sale or
delivery of alcoholic liquors.
      4.   Permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to sell,
possess, or give away any alcoholic liquor on the premises for which such
license is issued.
      5.   Permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to remain
on the premises of any licensee; provided, the prohibition of this subsection
shall not apply to:
         a.   Any person eighteen (18) years of age or older, when such person
is on the premises pursuant to employment; or
         b.   Any person accompanied by his or her parent, legal guardian or
spouse; or
         c.   Premises where food is sold, except in any area segregated and
designated principally for the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquor; or
         d.   Bowling alleys, except in any area segregated and designated
principally for the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquor.
   C.   Premises And Public Areas:
      1.   Harbor or permit any intoxicated persons to loiter on the premises
described in the license, or permit any conduct which tends to disturb the
peace or quiet of the neighborhood or the premises.
      2.   Serve any alcoholic beverage to any person for consumption on public
streets or to any persons in motor vehicles on such streets.
      3.   Permit any person to consume any alcoholic liquor on the premises
described in the license, unless such alcoholic liquor has been purchased on
the premises.
      4.   Keep open for business or admit any person other than an employee
who is then performing services during the hours within which the sale of such
liquor is prohibited; or to permit or allow any person, other than an employee
then performing services, to remain in or about the licensed premises either
before or after the hours designated within which the sale and consumption of
alcoholic liquors is prohibited on the licensed premises.
         a.   Provided, however, that grocery stores, convenience stores which
operate on a twenty four (24) hour basis, restaurants, clubs, hotels, and
motels may keep their places of business open subject only to the provisions
that no sale at retail of alcoholic liquors or the consumption by patrons or
customers or by the public of alcoholic liquors shall be permitted or allowed
on said licensed premises during the hours prohibited; and
         b.   Further provided that employees may remain in or about the
licensed premises either one hour before or after the hours designated within
which the sale and consumption of alcoholic liquor is prohibited on the
licensed premises for the sole purpose of conducting business related
activities such as cleaning and inventory, expressly subject to the provision
that no sale at retail of alcoholic liquors or the consumption by any persons
of alcoholic liquor shall be permitted or allowed on said licensed premises
during the hours prohibited.
      5.   Sell alcoholic liquor at any time other than during the service
hours established in this article.
      6.   Permit any window display of liquor or other decoration of such a
nature as will obstruct the view into the interior from the exterior.
      7.   Serve or permit any person to consume any alcoholic liquor in any
curtained enclosure, or any rear or side room, or in any place on the premises
not accessible to view from the exterior.
   D.   Other Offenses:
      1.   Sell any items of intimate apparel, including lingerie,
undergarments, sleepwear or swimsuits;
      2.   Permit any card playing, game of chance, or gambling on the
premises, except as otherwise allowed by the Illinois video gaming act, 230
Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/5-1-1 et seq., as now in effect or as hereafter
amended.
   E.   Violation: Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall
be guilty of a class A misdemeanor. (Ord. 16-08, 1-21-2016)
3-1-18: OFFENSES BY PERSONS OTHER THAN LICENSEE:
   A.   Except as otherwise permitted by this section:
      1.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall purchase, accept
delivery of, or have possession of any alcoholic liquor.
      2.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall consume any
alcoholic liquor.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to misrepresent his or her age, or the age of another, orally or by
presentation of a false identification document, for the purpose of inducing
any licensee under this chapter to sell or give such minor any alcoholic liquor
in violation of this chapter, or for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic liquor in any place in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold.
   C.   No person shall transfer, alter, or deface any identification document;
use the identification document(s) of another; carry or use a false or forged
identification document; or obtain an identification document by means of false
information.
   D.   The possession, dispensing, or consumption of alcoholic liquor by a
person under twenty one (21) years of age in the performance of a religious
service or ceremony, or the consumption of alcoholic liquor by a person under
twenty one (21) years of age under the direct supervision and approval of the
parents or parent, or of those persons standing in loco parentis of such person
under twenty one (21) years of age, in the privacy of a home, is not prohibited
by this section.
   E.   The provisions of this section prohibiting the possession of alcoholic
liquor by a person under twenty one (21) years of age and dispensing of
alcoholic liquor to a person under twenty one (21) years of age do not apply in
the case of a student under twenty one (21) years of age, but eighteen (18)
years of age or older:
      1.   Who is enrolled as a student in a college, university, or
postsecondary educational institution that is accredited or certified by an
agency recognized by the United States department of education or a nationally
recognized accrediting agency or association, or that has a permit of approval
issued by the board of higher education pursuant to the Illinois private
business and vocational schools act of 2012; and
      2.   Who is participating in a culinary arts, food service, or restaurant
management degree program of which a portion of the program includes
instruction on responsible alcoholic beverage serving methods modeled after the
beverage alcohol sellers and server education and training (BASSET) curriculum;
and
      3.   Who tastes, but does not imbibe, alcoholic liquor only during times
of a regularly scheduled course while under the direct supervision of an
instructor who is at least twenty one (21) years of age and employed by an
educational institution described in subsection E1 of this section; and
      4.   Who tastes, but does not imbibe, alcoholic liquor for instructional
purposes up to, but not exceeding, six (6) times per class as a part of a
required course in which the student temporarily possesses alcoholic liquor for
tasting, not imbibing, purposes only in a class setting on the campus of such
educational institution, and, thereafter, the alcoholic liquor is possessed and
remains under the control of the instructor.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to remain on the premises of any
licensee under this chapter, including in any room or compartment adjoining or
adjacent to or situated in the place where alcoholic liquor is sold in the
village, except as otherwise permitted in section
3-1-17 of this article.
   G.   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any items of intimate
apparel including lingerie, undergarments, sleepwear or swimsuits on any
premises licensed for sale of alcoholic liquor in the village.
   H.   It shall be unlawful for any intoxicated person or habitual drunkard to
purchase any alcoholic liquor in the village.
   I.   No person shall transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor
within the passenger area of any motor vehicle, except in the original package
and with the seal unbroken.
      1.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a restaurant
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor may permit a patron to remove one unsealed
and partially consumed bottle of wine for off premises consumption provided
that the patron has purchased a meal and consumed a portion of the bottle of
wine with the meal on the restaurant premises.
         a.   A partially consumed bottle of wine that is to be removed from
the premises pursuant to this section shall be securely sealed by the licensee
or an agent of the licensee prior to removal from the premises and placed in a
transparent onetime use tamperproof bag.
         b.   The licensee or agent of the licensee shall provide a dated
receipt for the bottle of wine to the patron.
         c.   A person who is transporting a bottle of wine that has been
resealed in accordance with the provisions of this section and not tampered
with and transported in accordance with the restrictions of subsections (a) and
(b) of section 11-502 of the Illinois vehicle code shall not be deemed to be in
violation of this section.
   J.   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of a class A misdemeanor. (Ord. 16-08, 1-21-2016)
3-1-19: WARNING TO MINORS:
In every tavern or other place in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold
there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card which
shall be supplied by the village clerk and which shall read substantially as
follows:
   WARNING TO MINORS
You are subject to a fine up to $750.00 under the ordinances of the Village of
Hampshire if you purchase alcoholic liquor or misrepresent your age for the
purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 97-30, 9-18-1997)
3-1-20: LICENSE TO BE POSTED:
Every person who shall obtain an alcoholic liquor license under this article
shall at all times keep the license hung or posted in some conspicuous place in
his tavern, or other place of business, where said alcoholic liquors are sold.
(Ord. 97-30, 9-18-1997)
3-1-21: INSURANCE:
All persons licensed to sell alcoholic liquor within the village under the
provisions of this article shall carry dramshop insurance with limits of
coverage not less than those provided from time to time by the Illinois general
assembly, in the Illinois liquor control act of 1934, 235 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-1 et seq., for any loss of means of support or loss of society,
for property damage, and for bodily injury or death for each person incurring
such damages. Evidence of such dramshop insurance shall be filed with the
village clerk, together with a receipt for the payment of the premium(s)
thereon, before any license shall be issued hereunder; and furthermore, said
licensee shall be required to notify the village in writing in the event of the
cancellation of said insurance coverage, for any reason whatsoever, within ten
(10) days of said cancellation. (Ord. 13-17, 10-17-2013)
3-1-22: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person, firm, corporation, business entity, licensee or licensee's
employee who is found in violation of any section or sections of this article,
following a hearing before the local liquor control commission, shall be
subject to the following penalties for each offense; each day on which a
violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense for purposes
of these regulations and this section:
      1.   Revocation of license for cause;
      2.   Suspension of the license for cause for not more than thirty (30)
days;
      3.   Payment of a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), for the first violation within a
twelve (12) month period; one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a
second violation within a twelve (12) month period; and two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for a third or subsequent violation within a twelve
(12) month period. Not more than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) in fines
under this section may be imposed against any licensee during the period of his
license. Proceeds from such fines shall be paid into the general corporate fund
of the municipal treasury;
      4.   Failure to pay any penalty, fees, tax, fine and/or costs required by
this code or legally authorized by the village within thirty (30) days of
notification thereof shall be a separate violation and may be cause for
revocation or suspension of any license, or imposition of a separate or
additional fine or penalty.
   B.   In addition, any licensee determined by the local liquor control
commission to have violated any of the provisions of this article or state law
shall pay to the village the costs of any hearing held before the local liquor
control commission in regard to the alleged violation.
      1.   The local liquor control commission shall determine the costs
incurred by the village for such hearing, including court attorney fees, and
the costs, including, but not limited to, court reporter fees, transcript fees,
costs of notice, and other miscellaneous expenses, for prosecution of a
violation.
      2.   The licensee shall pay said costs to the village within thirty (30)
days of notification of same from the local liquor control commissioner.
Failure to make payment in full within said time shall be deemed to be a
violation of this article, and may be cause for imposition of any of the
penalties otherwise described in this section for such violation.
      3.   In the event of an appeal to the state commission, and in case of
appeal taken pursuant to the Illinois administrative review act, payment shall
be due within forty (40) days after entry of an order finally affirming the
finding or decision of the local liquor control commission.
   C.   The remedies afforded in this section shall not be exclusive, and any
sums due under this section may be collected as any other debt. (Ord. 05-03, 3-
3-2005; amd. Ord. 25-08, 3-20-2025)
CHAPTER 4
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Cable Communications   I
Licensed Refuse And Recycling Contractors   II
Solicitors   III
Junk Dealers   IV
Peddlers   V
Raffle License   VI
Coin Operated Amusement Devices   VII
Massage Establishments And Massage Services (Rep. by Ord. 06-04, 2-2-2006)
   VIII
Tobacco Products   IX
Hotel Tax   X
Utility Tax   XI
Municipal Electricity Tax   XII
Restaurants; Outdoor Seating   XIII
Local Government Taxpayers'
Bill Of Rights   XIV
Adult Entertainment Establishments   XV
Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax   XVI
Cable/Video Service Provider Fee   XVII
Cable And Video Customer Protection Regulations   XVIII
Carnivals   XIX
Identity Theft Prevention Program   XX
Business Licensing And Regulations   XXI
Identity Protection   XXII
Video Gaming   XXIII
Tattoo Parlors And Body Piercing Establishments   XXIV
Tax on The Gross Receipts Of Places For Eating   XXV
Adult-Use Cannabis   XXVI
Municipal Cannabis Retailers' Occupation Tax   XXVII
Home Kitchen Operations And Cottage Food Operations   XXVIII
Mobile Food Vendors   XXIX
ARTICLE I
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Purpose
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Granting Of Franchise
4-1-4: Compliance, Generally Required
4-1-5: Modification Of FCC Rules
4-1-6: Transfer
4-1-7: Franchisee Rules And Regulations
4-1-8: Franchise, Term
4-1-9: Franchise, Renewal
4-1-10: System Construction, Maintenance And Procedures
4-1-11: Construction Schedule
4-1-12: Line Extension
4-1-13: Village Rights
4-1-14: Payment Of Costs And Attorney Fees
4-1-15: Payments To The Village
4-1-16: Rates And Charges
4-1-17: Record Keeping
4-1-18: Service Procedures
4-1-19: Protection Of Privacy
4-1-20: Program Content Restriction
4-1-21: Employment; Discrimination Prohibited
4-1-22: Liability And Indemnification
4-1-23: Activities Prohibited
4-1-24: Work Performed By Others
4-1-25: Remedies For Violations
4-1-26: Procedures
4-1-27: Excuse For Nonperformance
4-1-28: Removal Of System
4-1-29: Unauthorized Connections And Modifications
4-1-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this article is to provide rules and regulations for the
installation, operation, and maintenance of a cable television system or
systems in the village.
   B.   The ordinance codified in this article shall be known and may be cited
as the HAMPSHIRE CABLE COMMUNICATIONS REGULATIONS. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms, phrases, words and
derivations shall have the meanings given in this section. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number and words in the
singular number shall include the plural number. The word "shall" is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
BASIC CABLE SERVICE: Any service tier which includes the lawful retransmission
of local television broadcast signals and any public, educational, and
governmental access programming required by the franchise to be carried on the
basic tier. "Basic cable service" as defined herein shall not be inconsistent
with 47 USC section 543(b)(7) (1993).
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The village board of trustees.
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The provision of television reception,
communications and/or entertainment services and distributing the same over a
cable communications system. This definition shall not include telephone
services regulated pursuant to applicable law and as may be amended from time
to time.
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: A system of antennas, cables, wires,
lines, towers, wave-guides, or other conductors, converters, equipment, or
facilities located in the village and designed and constructed for the purpose
of producing, receiving, transmitting, amplifying, or distributing audio,
video, and other forms of electronic signals in the village.
CABLE PROGRAMMING SERVICE: Any video programming provided over a cable system,
regardless of service tier, including installation or rental of equipment used
for the receipt of such video programming, other than:
   A.   Video programming carried on the basic service tier;
   B.   Video programming offered on a pay-per-channel or pay-per-program
basis; or
   C.   A combination of multiple channels of pay-per- channel or pay-per-
program video programming offered on a multiplexed or time-shifted basis so
long as the combined service:
1. Consists of commonly-identified video programming; and
2. Is not bundled with any regulated tier of service.
   D.   "Cable programming service" as defined herein shall not be inconsistent
with the definition as set forth in 47 USC section 543(1)(2) (1993) and 47 CFR
76.901(b) (1993).
CONVERTER: An electronic device which converts signals to a frequency
acceptable to a television receiver of a subscriber and by an appropriate
selector permits a subscriber to view all subscriber signals included in the
service.
DROP: The cable that connects the ground block on the subscriber's residence to
the nearest feeder cable of the system.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission and any legally appointed,
designated or elected agent or successor.
FRANCHISEE: Any person granted the franchise right to install, operate and/or
maintain a cable television system in the village under this article.
GROSS REVENUES: All revenue received from basic cable, cable communications,
and cable programming services. The term "Gross Revenues" shall not include
franchise fees, access operating fees, advertising revenues, any fees itemized
and passed through as a result of franchise imposed requirements or any taxes
or fees on services furnished by a franchisee imposed directly on any
subscriber or user by any municipality, state, or other governmental unit and
collected by a franchisee for such governmental unit.
INSTALLATION: The connection of the system from feeder cable to the point of
connection, including standard installations and custom installations.
LOCKOUT DEVICE: An optional mechanical or electrical accessory to a
subscriber's terminal which inhibits the viewing of a certain program, certain
channel, or certain channels provided by way of the cable communication system.
PAY TELEVISION: The delivery over the system of pay-per-channel or pay-per-
program audio-visual signals to subscribers for a fee or charge, in addition to
the charge for basic cable service or cable programming services.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
other legal entity.
STANDARD INSTALLATION: Any residential installation which can be completed
using a drop of one hundred fifty feet (150') or less.
STREET: The surface of, and the space above and below, any public street, road,
highway, freeway, lane, alley, path, court, sidewalk, parkway, or drive, or any
easement or right of way now or hereafter held by village.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person who lawfully receives cable television service. In the
case of buildings containing multiple offices, or multiple-family dwelling
units, the "Subscriber" means the lessee, tenant or occupant.
VIDEO PROGRAMMING: Programming provided by, or generally considered comparable
to programming provided by, a television broadcast station.
VILLAGE: The village of Hampshire, Kane County, Illinois. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-
2000)
4-1-3: GRANTING OF FRANCHISE:
The village may grant to a franchisee a nonexclusive franchise, right and
privilege, and easement to construct, erect, operate, modify, and maintain, in,
upon, among, across, above and over and under the highways, streets, alleys,
sidewalks, public ways and public places now laid out or dedicated and all
extensions thereof and additions thereto in the village, any poles, wires,
cables, underground conduits, manholes and other television and communications
conductors and fixtures necessary for the operation and maintenance in the
village of a cable communications system for the purpose of distributing
television and radio signals, and other electronic impulses, in order to
furnish television and radio programs, and various communications and other
electronic services, to the public. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-4: COMPLIANCE, GENERALLY REQUIRED:
   A.   A franchisee shall be subject to all lawful exercise of the police
power by the village and to such reasonable regulation as the village shall
hereafter by resolution or ordinance provide.
   B.   The construction, operation and maintenance of the system by a
franchisee shall be in full compliance with such portions of the National
Electrical Safety Code as may be applicable and as the same may be amended and
revised from time to time, and in full compliance with all other applicable
rules and regulations now in effect or hereinafter adopted by the Federal
Communications Commission, the village or any other agency of the state or the
United States, which may hereafter acquire jurisdiction of the operations of a
franchisee authorized in this article.
   C.   A franchisee shall at all times comply with the rules and regulations
governing cable programming and cable communications operations promulgated by
the FCC, specifically those set out in section 76.31 of the FCC Rules and
Regulations, including adherence by the franchisee to FCC rules regarding
technical and engineering specifications involved in the construction of the
system and signal carriage therein. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-5: MODIFICATION OF FCC RULES:
Consistent with the requirements of Rule 76.31(a)(6) of the FCC, any
modification of Rule 76.31 resulting from amendment thereto by the FCC shall be
incorporated in this article by specific amendments thereto by lawful action of
the board of trustees within one year from the effective date of the FCC's
amendment or at the time of renewal of the ordinance codified in this article,
whichever occurs first. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-6: TRANSFER:
   A.   A franchisee shall not sell or transfer its system to another, or alter
the compositions of its individual partners or stockholders, or transfer any
rights, duties or obligations under this article to another without written
notice and formal approval by the village board of trustees; provided, that
such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld if the vendee, assignee or
lessee has filed with the appropriate official of the village an instrument
duly executed, reciting the fact of such sale, assignment of lease, accepting
the terms of this article and agreeing to perform all conditions thereof. For
purposes of determining whether it shall consent to such sale or transfer, the
village may inquire into the qualifications of the buyer or transferee, and
franchisee shall assist the village as reasonably requested in any such
inquiry.
   B.   In requesting any such sale or transfer, franchisee shall have the duty
to evidence to the village that the buyer or transferee has the financial and
technical capability to maintain and operate the system for the remaining term
of the franchise; and shall submit to the village current, certified and
audited financial statements of the buyer or transferee in support thereof.
Further in support of any request for sale or other transfer of the franchise,
franchisee shall inform the village if any person, director, or entity holding
more than five percent (5%) interest in buyer or transferee shall ever have
been convicted of any crime involving moral turpitude, or is under indictment,
investigation or complaint regarding same; has ever had a judgment entered
against him, her or it in an action for fraud, deceit or misrepresentation; or
has pending any legal claim, lawsuit, or administrative proceeding arising out
of or involving a cable communications system.
   C.   The village may upon receipt of such request for approval approve the
sale or transfer, deny the sale or transfer, or conditionally approve the sale
or transfer; the village may attach conditions, including, but not limited to,
the following: 1) reimbursement of reasonable and necessary expenses incurred
in evaluating the transfer request; 2) remedy of any existing or historical
violations of village ordinances or the franchise agreement; 3) payment of all
fees and penalties owed by the franchisee at the time; 4) agreement by the
buyer or transferee to abide by any and all ordinances, agreements and
conditions.
   D.   The village shall not approve any transfer or assignment of the
franchise prior to substantial completion of construction of the system, except
under extraordinary circumstances as determined by the village. In the event of
any transfer or assignment of ownership or control the transferee shall be
subject to all the terms and conditions of this article. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-
2000)
4-1-7: FRANCHISEE RULES AND REGULATIONS:
A franchisee shall have the authority to promulgate such rules, regulations,
terms and conditions governing the conduct of its business as shall be
reasonably necessary to enable a franchisee to exercise its rights and perform
its obligations under this article, and to assure an uninterrupted service to
each and all of its customers; provided, however, that such rules, regulations,
terms and conditions shall not be in conflict with the provisions hereof or of
federal and state laws. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-8: FRANCHISE, TERM:
   A.   The village may grant a franchise for a term of reasonable duration
dating from date of grant, subject to renewal in accord with the requirements
of law, on such terms and conditions as may be lawfully specified by the
village board consistent with the requirements of Rule 76.31 of the FCC;
provided, however, that in no event shall said franchise term as extended
exceed ninety nine (99) years.
   B.   No grant of franchise shall be exclusive, and the grant of franchise
shall neither restrict the village board in the exercise of its regulatory
power, nor prevent it from granting any other cable television system franchise
under the terms and conditions of this article now established or as amended.
   C.   The franchise may be granted to the extent of the corporate boundaries
of the village, as such exist from time to time. In the event of annexation of
additional territory by village, or as development may occur in the village,
after the commencement date of any franchise, such new territory or new
development shall become part of the area covered, provided, however, that a
franchisee shall not be required to extend service beyond its present system
boundaries unless there is a minimum of thirty five (35) homes per cable mile
as measured from the last fiber node or terminating amplifier. Nor shall a
franchisee be required to provide cable programming service to any person if
person is more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from franchisee's cable
plant. Access to cable service shall not be denied to any group of potential
residential cable subscribers because of the income of the residents of the
area in which such group resides. Franchisee shall be given a reasonable period
of time to construct and activate system facilities to service annexed or newly
developed areas.
   D.   A franchisee shall provide installation of one cable drop, one cable
outlet, and monthly basic cable service without charge to the institutions and
such other public or educational institutions located within one hundred fifty
feet (150') of the system which village may designate. No redistribution of the
free basic cable service provided pursuant to this section shall be allowed.
Additional drops and/or outlets in any of the above locations will be provided
by franchisee at the cost of franchisee's time and material. Village is to
provide list of locations prior to the commencement of the franchise.
Alternatively, at the institution's request, said institution may add outlets
at its own expense, as long as such installation meets franchisee's standards
and provided that any fees for cable communications services are paid. Nothing
herein shall be construed as requiring a franchisee to extend the system to
serve additional institutions as may be designated by village. Franchisee shall
have one year from the date of village board of trustees designation of
additional institution(s) to complete construction of the drop and outlet.
   E.   Within sixty (60) days after the grant of a franchise to franchisee
pursuant to the terms of this article, franchisee shall file with the Federal
Communications Commission such request, petition or other application as is
then proper to secure from said Federal Communications Commission all necessary
permits, licenses, waivers or the like as may be necessary to be secured from
said Federal Communications Commission to fully comply with the terms of this
article. A franchisee shall thereafter diligently pursue such application with
the Federal Communications Commission and shall do all reasonable things
necessary and proper to secure any such permit, license, waiver, approval or
the like from it. A franchisee shall keep the village advised, from time to
time, of the progress of such application. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-9: FRANCHISE, RENEWAL:
No renewal of any franchise granted pursuant to the terms and conditions of
this article shall be effective except pursuant to a public proceeding
affording due process. A franchisee shall be a party to any such proceeding and
any other proceedings in which its rights, privileges or interests would be
affected and shall be fully entitled to such due process rights as may be
available under applicable laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations. (Ord. 00-
31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-10: SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Upon grant of any franchise granted pursuant to the terms and
conditions of this article to construct and maintain a cable television system
in the village and in furtherance of a franchisee's execution of contracts with
public utility companies or any other owner or lessee of any poles located
within or without the village to whatever extent such contract or contracts may
be expedient and of advantage to a franchisee for use of poles and posts
necessary for proper installation of the system, a franchisee may do the
following, provided that a copy of any agreement a franchisee enters, or permit
it obtains shall be provided to the village:
      1.   Obtain right of way permits from appropriate state, county and
federal officials necessary to cross highways or roads under their respective
jurisdictions to supply main trunk lines from a franchisee's receiving
antennas;
      2.   Obtain permission from the federal aviation authority to erect and
maintain antennas suitable to the needs of the system and its subscribers;
      3.   Obtain whatever other permits a city, county, state or federal
agency may require;
      4.   Enter into one or more agreements with the telephone, electric, gas,
light or water companies doing business in the village to whatsoever extent
such agreement or agreements may be expedient and of advantage to a franchisee
in furnishing service to its customers in the village.
   B.   A franchisee shall construct its cable system using material of good
and durable quality, and all work involved in the construction, installation,
maintenance and repair of the cable system shall be performed in a safe,
thorough and reliable manner, and any municipal or private property damaged or
destroyed shall be promptly repaired or replaced by a franchisee and restored
to serviceable condition.
   C.   A franchisee's system, poles, wires and appurtenances shall be located,
erected and maintained so that none of its facilities shall endanger or
interfere with the lives of persons, or interfere with any improvements the
village may deem proper to make, or unnecessarily hinder or obstruct the free
use of the streets, alleys, bridges, easements or public property.
   D.   In the event the village annexes further territory as authorized by
law, a franchisee shall extend energized trunk cable to the remaining portions
of the village so annexed within a reasonable time thereafter, not to exceed
one year unless additional time is granted by the board upon request of a
franchisee for good cause shown. Any such extension of service shall be subject
to the provisions of section
4-1-12 of this article. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
   E.   All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment
erected by a franchisee within the village shall be so located as to cause
minimum interference with the proper use of streets, alleys and other public
ways and places, and to cause minimum interferences with the rights or
reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the said streets,
alleys or other public ways and places.
      1.    Wherever electrical, telephone or other utility lines to any
subscriber's residence are buried underground, a franchisee shall be required
to so bury its cable.
      2.   The location of all such structures, lines and equipment erected by
a franchisee, and a map of any underground improvements, shall be provided to
the village by any franchisee.
      3.   Whenever any excavation in any public way in the village is required
for installation of any structures, lines, or equipment by a franchisee, the
franchisee shall comply with the terms of section
9-7-1 of this code.
      4.   Installation of such structures, lines and equipment shall be made
in accordance with the terms of subsection 4-1-12A2 of this article. (Ord. 01-
40, 12-6-2001)
   F.   In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk, driveway, shrubbery,
grass or other surfacing, or fencing, a franchisee shall, at its own cost and
expense and in a manner approved by the village, replace and restore all such
paving, sidewalk, driveway, shrubbery, grass or surface of any street or alley,
or fencing, or other public or private properly in as good condition as before
said work was commenced.
   G.   No construction shall commence on easements on private property without
at least forty eight (48) hours' notice in advance either directly or through
the mass media or by franchisee personnel. If permission for easement access is
required, such permission to construct cable plant shall not be unreasonably
withheld by the property owner.
   H.   In the event that at any time during the period of any franchise
granted pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in this article the
village lawfully elects to alter or change the grade of any street, alley or
other public way, a franchisee, upon reasonable notice by the village, shall
remove, relay or relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground conduits,
manholes and other fixtures at its own expense.
   I.   A franchisee shall not place poles or other fixtures where the same
will interfere with any gas, electric or telephone fixtures, water hydrants or
mains, and all such poles or other fixtures placed in any street shall be
placed at the outer edge of the sidewalk and inside the curb line, and those
placed in alleys shall be placed close to the line of the lot, abutting on said
alley, and then in such manner as not to interfere with the usual travel on
said streets, alleys and public ways.
   J.   A franchisee shall, on the request of any person holding a building
moving permit issued by the village, temporarily raise or lower its wires to
permit the moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary removal, raising
or lowering of wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same and a
franchisee shall be given not less than forty eight (48) hours' advance notice
to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
   K.   A franchisee shall have the authority to trim trees upon and
overhanging streets, alleys, sidewalks, and public places of the village so as
to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with the wires and
cables of franchisee, all trimming to be done under the supervision and
direction of the village and at the expense of franchisee.
   L.   A franchisee shall provide, upon request and without charge, service to
any municipal buildings owned and operated by the village and to any public or
parochial elementary or secondary school, by means of an energized cable
extended to such building only. The cost of any internal wiring shall be borne
by the institution. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-11: CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE:
A franchisee shall accomplish substantial construction within six (6) months
after grant of a franchise by the village pursuant to the terms and conditions
of this article, and shall thereafter make cable service available to all
residents of the village, subject to the line extension provisions of section
4-1-12 of this article. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-12: LINE EXTENSION:
   A.   It shall be the obligation of a franchisee to serve all residents of
the village except to the extent that density of the homes, adverse terrain or
other factors render providing service impracticable, technically unfeasible or
economically noncompensatory.
      1.   For purposes of determining compliance with the provisions of this
section, and governing extensions of cable service within the village, a
franchisee shall provide or extend service to new subscribers at the
installation charge and monthly rate for customers of that classification set
forth in this article wherever there is an average of thirty five (35) homes
per linear mile of new cable construction.
      2.   In the event the requirements of this section are not otherwise met,
extensions of service shall be offered by a franchisee on such basis as is
reasonable and compensatory. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-13: VILLAGE RIGHTS:
   A.   Additional Regulations: The right is reserved by the village to adopt,
in addition to the provisions contained in this article and existing applicable
ordinances, such additional regulations as it shall find necessary in the
exercise of the police power; provided, that such regulations, by ordinance or
otherwise, shall be reasonable and not in conflict with the rights granted in
this article, and shall not be in conflict with the applicable laws of the
state or the United States.
   B.   Use Of System By Village: The village shall have the right, during the
life of any franchise granted pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in
this article, of maintaining upon the poles or in the underground conduits of a
franchisee within the village limits, wire and fixtures necessary for a traffic
signal control system and/or a police and fire alarm system. Such wires and
fixtures shall be installed and maintained at the sole expense of the village
and shall at all times comply with all reasonable rules and regulations of a
franchisee so that there may be a minimum danger of contact or conflict between
wires and fixtures of a franchisee and wires and fixtures used by the village.
   C.   Emergency Or Disaster: In the case of an emergency or disaster, a
franchisee shall, upon request of the village clerk, make available its
facilities to the village for emergency use during the emergency or disaster
period.
   D.   Liability: The village shall not be liable for any damage occurring to
the property of a franchisee caused by employees of the village in the
performance of their duties, except for damage caused to a franchisee's
facilities by the negligence of the village's employees. The village shall not
be liable for the interruption of service by actions of village employees in
the performance of their duties, nor shall the village be held liable for the
failure of a franchisee to be able to perform normal services due to the acts
of God or other factors beyond the control of the village.
   E.   No Property Right: Nothing in this article shall grant to a franchisee
any right of property in the village-owned property, nor shall the village be
compelled to maintain any of its property any longer than or in any fashion
other than in the village's judgment its own business or needs may require.
   F.   Construction Approval By Village: A franchisee shall not erect any
pole, install any underground lines or conduits, run any line, make an
attachment, nor shall any construction of any kind be commenced on public
property or within any public or utility easement without the prior approval of
the superintendent of public works or appropriate department of the village,
which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld; and the village shall have
and maintain the right to inspect the construction, operation and maintenance
of the system by a franchisee to ensure the proper compliance with the terms
and conditions codified in this article.
   G.   Correction Of Defects: In the event a franchisee should violate any of
the terms of this article, or any of the rules and regulations as may be from
time to time lawfully adopted, the village shall promptly give a franchisee
fifteen (15) days' written notice to correct such violation and in the event a
franchisee does not make such correction within fifteen (15) days from the
receipt of such written notice, the village may make such correction itself and
charge the costs of the same to a franchisee, and a franchisee shall pay such
charges within fifteen (15) days after the receipt of a statement for such
charge from the village. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-14: PAYMENT OF COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES:
A franchisee shall be responsible to pay for, or to reimburse the village for,
expenses incurred in making, renewing or reviewing any franchise agreement
under these regulations; considering and making any modifications to these
regulations from time to time; considering and reviewing any alleged violations
of these regulations. Such expenses shall include, but not be limited to, costs
of public hearing, publishing notice, publication of these regulations to the
extent required by law, attorney fees, engineering fees, or other expenses.
Such costs shall be paid prior to the approval of any franchise under these
regulations, or in the case of an alleged violation, within thirty (30) days
after mailing of an invoice for same. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-15: PAYMENTS TO THE VILLAGE:
   A.   A franchisee shall pay to the village as a franchise fee based on the
amount of gross revenue received by the franchisee for monthly basic cable
television services rendered to customers located within the village, in an
amount not to exceed that allowed by law. Franchisee shall furnish the village
with an operating report showing franchisee's annual gross revenue and such
other information as the village shall reasonably require with respect to
properties and expenses related to franchisee's services within the village for
such period.
   B.   All payments as required by franchisee to the village shall be made
annually, on a calendar year basis, and shall be due forty five (45) days after
the end of the year. In the event that the franchise is terminated at some time
other than the end of a calendar year, payment shall be due through the last
day of the franchise, and payment shall be made within forty five (45) days
after the date of termination.
   C.   Acceptance of any such payment by the village shall not in any case be
construed as a release, or an accord and satisfaction of any claim the village
may have for further or additional sums as a franchise fee, or for the
performance of any other obligation of franchisee.
   D.   In the event that any payment is not made when due, the village shall
be entitled to charge and collect, and franchisee shall pay to the village, an
amount equal to five percent (5%) as a late penalty to defray the additional
expense and costs incurred by the village by reason of the delinquent payment,
together with interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum until
paid.
   E.   Any pass through of the franchise fee to the customers shall be in
accord with federal law. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-16: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this article, a franchisee shall have
the right, privilege and authority to charge such rates and charges to its
subscribers for its services as may be fixed by agreement of the village and
franchisee as part of the grant of franchise process, and are otherwise in
accord with federal law.
   B.   Multi-user rates and charges may be negotiated between a franchisee and
the subscriber, but in no event shall the multi- user rates and charges for any
subscriber exceed the aggregate rates and charges which would be charged to the
multi-user if computed on the basis of single-user rates and charges.
   C.   In addition to the specified monthly service rate, a franchisee may add
to that rate, taxes for fees imposed upon a franchisee's gross subscriber
revenues by village, state, or federal governmental or legislative bodies and
fees or charges imposed upon a franchisee for the use and distribution of
copyrighted program material.
   D.   A franchisee may, at its own discretion, waive, reduce or suspend
connection fees for specific or indeterminate periods and/or monthly service
fees for promotional purposes.
   E.   The village may assume regulation of rates paid by subscribers, in
accord with powers granted it by either the FCC or federal or state law, at any
time during the term of any franchise, unless otherwise specifically agreed by
the village and any franchisee at the time any such franchise is awarded. (Ord.
00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-17: RECORD KEEPING:
A franchisee shall keep full, true, accurate and current books of account,
which books and records and all other pertinent books, records, maps, plans,
financial statements and other like materials, shall be made available for
inspection and copying by the village upon reasonable notice and during normal
business hours. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-18: SERVICE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Any franchisee shall maintain a regional office and a twenty four (24)
hour toll-free telephone number and provide the village clerk's office with the
name, address and telephone number of a person who will act as franchisee's
agent to receive complaints regarding quality of service, equipment
malfunctions and similar matters.
      1.   A franchisee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly,
and interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
Any scheduled service interruption shall be preceded by notice on the community
bulletin board, and shall occur during periods of minimum use of the system.
      2.   Each and every complaint from any subscriber shall be investigated
and acted upon at no charge to customer as soon as possible. A franchisee shall
use best efforts under normal operating conditions during normal business hours
to ensure that a minimum average of ninety percent (90%) of all callers for
service (measured on a quarterly basis) will not be made to wait more than one
minute before being connected to a trained customer service representative, and
shall receive a busy signal less than three percent (3%) of the time (measured
on a quarterly basis). Inquiries made outside of normal business hours may be
answered by a service or automated response system, and such calls shall be
responded to by a trained customer service representative no later than the
next business day.
      3.   A franchisee shall maintain sufficient installation staff to provide
a standard installation of service to new customers within seven (7) days after
receipt of a request for service, provided the new customer otherwise qualifies
for service under the terms of this article. This standard shall be met not
less than ninety five percent (95%) of the time, measured on a quarterly basis.
      4.   A franchisee shall schedule all appointments for installation of
service at a specific time by agreement with the customer, or within a four (4)
hour time frame. Provided, franchisee shall not cancel any scheduled
appointment with a customer after the close of business on the day before the
scheduled appointment; franchisee will notify the customer as soon as
practicable if its installer will be late for the appointed time or not able to
keep the appointment; and any missed appointment will be promptly rescheduled
at a time which is convenient for the customer during normal business hours.
These standards shall be met not less than ninety five percent (95%) of the
time, measured on a quarterly basis.
      5.   A franchisee shall maintain a repair force of technicians who, under
normal operating conditions, are capable of responding to customer requests for
service within the following time frames:
         a.   Twenty four (24) hours for individual or isolated service
interruption, being interruption of sound or picture or both affecting two
percent (2%) or less of all customers, identified by customer request for
service;
         b.   Two (2) hours for system interruption, being interruption of
sound or picture or both on one or more channels affecting more than two
percent (2%) of all customers, identified by customer request for service; and
         c.   Forty eight (48) hours for a problem identified by customer
request for service concerning the quality of sound or picture on any one or
more channels.
      6.   A franchisee shall respond to requests for service described in
subsection A5 of this section within the times prescribed therein not less than
ninety five percent (95%) of the time, measured on a quarterly basis. A
franchisee shall be deemed to have responded to a request for service when a
technician arrives at the service location and begins work on resolving the
problem. For any customer not at the location upon the arrival of the
technician, franchisee shall be deemed to have responded provided the
technician leaves a written notification to the customer of his/her arrival.
   B.   A franchisee shall provide to system customers, at the request of the
customer, a credit equal to one-thirtieth (1/30) of one months' charges for any
service interruption greater than four (4) hours in any twenty four (24) hour
period, up to seven (7) days in one month. For service interruptions of more
than four (4) hours during any twenty four (24) hour period, occurring more
than seven (7) times in one month, franchisee shall provide at customer's
request a credit equal to one month's full charges.
   C.   A franchisee shall by appropriate means, such as a card or brochure, as
subscribers are connected or reconnected for making inquiries and/or
complaints, including the name, address and telephone numbers of the employee
or employees or agent to whom such inquiries or complaints are to be addressed.
   D.   A franchisee shall not exercise deceptive sales procedures when
marketing its cable communications services within the village. A franchisee
shall have the right to market such services door-to-door during reasonable
hours consistent with local ordinances and regulation.
   E.   A franchisee shall make available to any customer at customer's
request, free of charge, a lockout device capable of blocking the reception of
audio and video portions of channels which the customer wishes to block.
   F.   A franchisee shall keep a written maintenance service log, such log by
computer in a form capable of retrieval and reproduction, which indicates the
nature of each service complaint, the date and time it was received, the
disposition of said complaint and the time and date thereof. Said log shall be
made available for periodic inspection by the village. Franchisee shall within
ten (10) business days and upon reasonable notice from the village demonstrate
compliance with any or all of the standards prescribed in this section,
providing to the village sufficiently detailed information to evidence the
extent of compliance. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-19: PROTECTION OF PRIVACY:
   A.   A franchisee shall not permit the transmission of any signal, aural,
visual or digital, including "polling" the channel selection, from any
subscriber's premises without first obtaining written permission of the
subscriber. This provision is not intended to prohibit the use of transmission
of signals useful only for the control or measurement of system performance.
   B.   A franchisee shall not permit the installation of any special terminal
equipment on any subscriber's premises that will permit transmission from
subscriber's premises of two-way services utilizing aural, visual or digital
signals without first obtaining written permission of the subscriber.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to attach or affix, or cause to be
attached or affixed, any equipment or device which allows access or use of the
cable television service without payment to a franchisee for same.
   D.   Further provisions for the protection and disclosure of personally
identifiable information are contained in the Cable Communications Policy Act
of 1984. A franchisee shall notify each subscriber of such provisions at the
time of subscriber connection. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-20: PROGRAM CONTENT RESTRICTION:
   A.   In addition to providing basic cable television service consisting of
broadcast, locally originated, access and automated signals, a franchisee may
offer subscribers optional services on a per-program or per-channel basis.
   B.   A franchisee shall not display the X-rated motion pictures either as
part of its basic cable or pay cable services. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-21: EMPLOYMENT; DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED:
   A.   A franchisee shall not refuse to hire, or discharge from employment,
nor discriminate against any person regarding compensation, terms, conditions,
or privileges of employment because of sex, age, race, color, creed or national
origin.
   B.   A franchisee shall take affirmative action to ensure that employees are
treated during employment without regard to their sex, age, race, color, creed
or national origin. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-22: LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   A franchisee shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the village, its
officers, boards, commissions, agents and employees against and from any and
all claims, demands, suits, actions, liability and judgments for damages for
personal injury, including death, and property damage, arising out of its
operation of the cable television system franchise granted pursuant to the
terms and conditions of this article.
      1.   The obligation to indemnify, defend and hold harmless shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
         a.   Injury or death or damage to person or property.
         b.   Copyright infringement and any failure to secure consent from
owners, licensees or distributors of programs to be delivered by a franchisee's
system.
         c.   Installation, operation, and maintenance of the system.
         d.   Defamation of any person, firm or corporation; libel or slander;
invasion of the right to privacy.
         e.   Failure to comply with any federal, state or local statute,
ordinance or regulation applicable to a franchisee.
         f.   Any and all loss, cost or expense to village, including, but not
limited to, reasonable attorney fees in responding to, resulting from or
arising out of any claim, demand, suit, action, liability or judgment for
damages.
      2.   The obligation of a franchisee under this section shall exist and
continue without reference to or limitation by the amount of any bond, policy
of insurance, deposit, undertaking or other assurance required hereunder.
      3.   Neither a franchisee nor village shall make or enter into any
compromise or settlement of any claim, demand, suit, action, liability or any
proceeding without first having obtained the written consent of the other.
      4.   Village shall notify franchisee's representative, within fifteen
(15) days, of the making of any claim or demand, or commencement of any suit,
action or other proceeding covered by this section.
   B.   A franchisee shall maintain in full force and effect, at its own
expense, for the entire term of the franchise, the following insurance:
      1.   Franchisee shall carry workers' compensation insurance with
statutory limits, and employer's liability insurance with limits of not less
than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), which shall cover all
operations to be performed by franchisee as a result of this article.
      2.   Franchisee shall carry comprehensive general liability and
comprehensive vehicle liability insurance for liability due to property damage
in the amount of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) as to any one
occurrence and against liability due to injury or death of person, five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00) as to any one person and one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) as to any one occurrence. The village shall reserve the right
during the term of the franchise to increase or decrease the amount of
insurance coverage required, provided that notice in writing is made to the
franchise of all increases or decreases in said insurance coverage
requirements. A franchisee shall, within sixty (60) days of receipt of that
written notice, obtain such insurance coverage as is specified in said notice.
   C.   A franchisee shall, within thirty (30) days of the grant to it of a
franchise pursuant to the terms and conditions of this article, secure and
provide, at its expense, a performance bond to be maintained during the term of
the franchise.
      1.   Said bond shall run in favor of the village and shall be in the sum
of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) during the period of any
construction of the system which may be required at or prior to the
commencement of a franchise.
      2.   A franchisee shall well and truly observe, fulfill and perform each
term and condition of the bond.
      3.   Said bond shall be reduced to ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00)
following completion of construction and at the commencement of service,
subject to written certification by the village that franchisee's performance
justifies such reduction.
      4.   Any damages which may be directly occasioned by the failure of a
franchisee to perform under its franchise, up to the principal amount of the
bond, shall be recoverable from the principals and sureties of said bond by the
village.
      5.   In no event shall the amount of said bond be construed to limit the
liability of the franchisee for damages.
   D.   If a franchisee should commit a breach of the terms or conditions set
forth in this article and not remedy such breach within fifteen (15) days after
having received written notice from the village to do so, according to the
terms of subsection 4-1-13G of this article, the village, at its discretion,
may declare a portion of the bond, equivalent to the amount of damages
sustained which are directly attributable to such breach, forfeited.
      1.   In the event of such forfeiture, franchisee shall thereupon be
required to remedy the breach with reasonable dispatch, and within thirty (30)
days of such forfeiture to replace the forfeited portion of the bond.
      2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this subsection
shall serve to absolve franchisee of any of its obligations under this article
or the rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission.
   E.   A franchisee shall pay all premiums chargeable for insurance and the
bond and shall keep the same in full force and effect at all times throughout
the term of the franchise granted to franchisee and during the removal of all
poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and other conductors,
converters, equipment and fixtures subsequent to the termination of said
franchise. The bond and any and all certificates of insurance shall contain a
provision that they shall not be terminated or otherwise allowed to expire
prior to thirty (30) days after written notice to that effect is given to the
clerk or similar official of the village.
   F.   All insurance policies required of a franchisee in this article shall
be written by a franchisee or companies authorized and qualified to do business
in the state of Illinois with capital and/or surplus of not less than three
million dollars ($3,000,000.00). Certificates of all coverage required shall be
promptly filed by a franchisee with the village, naming the village as an
additional insured. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-23: ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED:
   A.   A franchisee, any and all of its officers, agents and employees, are
specifically prohibited from engaging in the sale, service, rental or leasing
of television receivers or television or radio receiver related parts and
accessories with any person anywhere in the village, whether for a fee or
charge or not. A franchisee shall prohibit any of its officers, agents and
employees from violating the terms of this section at all times, whether in the
performance of duties of a franchisee or otherwise.
   B.   A franchisee shall not allow its cable or other operations to interfere
with television reception of persons not served by a franchisee, nor shall the
system interfere with, obstruct or hinder in any manner the operation of the
various utilities serving the residents of the village.
   C.   A franchisee shall not, as to rates, charges, service facilities,
rules, regulations or in any other respect, make or grant any preference or
advantage to any person, nor subject any person to any prejudice or
disadvantage; provided, that nothing in this article shall be deemed to
prohibit the establishment of a graduated scale of charges and classified rate
schedules to which any customer coming within such classification would be
entitled.
   D.   A franchisee shall not attempt to or practice any fraud or deceit in
its application for, acceptance of, or conduct or relations under the franchise
granted, or in its conduct or relations with customers or potential customers.
   E.   A franchisee may not abandon the system or any portion thereof without
having first given three (3) months' written notice to village. A franchisee
may not abandon the system or any portion thereof without compensating village
for damages resulting from the abandonment.
   F.   A franchisee shall not file any petition for relief under the United
States bankruptcy laws, or allow any such petition to be filed against it; or
seek any assignment for the benefit of its creditors.
   G.   A franchisee shall not commit any act in violation of the terms and
conditions of this article, or any applicable franchise agreement; nor shall
any franchisee fail to perform any act required under the terms and provisions
of this article, or any applicable franchise agreement. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-24: WORK PERFORMED BY OTHERS:
   A.   A franchisee shall give notice to the village specifying the names and
addresses of any other entity, other than franchisee, which franchisee may
retain, hire, or employ as an agent, independent contractor, employee or
servant to perform services pursuant to the franchise granted to it, provided,
however, that all terms and conditions of this article shall remain the
responsibility of franchisee. All terms and conditions of this article shall
apply to any subcontractor or others performing any work or services on behalf
of franchisee. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-25: REMEDIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
   A.   In the event that a franchisee shall perform any act in violation of,
or shall fail to perform, or shall fail to perform in a timely manner, any
material obligation under this article, or under any applicable franchise
agreement, the village may, at its sole option and in its sole discretion:
      1.   Revoke, terminate or cancel the franchise, and all rights and
privileges pertaining thereto.
      2.   Assess against the franchisee monetary damages not exceeding any
limits otherwise set forth in this section, as liquidated damages sustained by
the village as a result of the franchisee's act or failure to act or failure to
act in a timely manner.
         a.   Any such assessment shall not constitute a waiver by the village
of any other right or remedy it may have under the law, the franchise, or any
applicable franchise agreement to recover additional damages, losses, costs,
and expenses, including actual attorney fees, resulting from, arising out of,
such act, failure to act, or failure to act in a timely manner.
         b.   This provision for assessment of monetary damages is also
intended to be unrelated to the right of the village to enforce any
construction and/or performance bond posted by the franchisee.
   B.   No such remedy shall be imposed by the village without first having
afforded the franchisee the procedural rights described in this article. (Ord.
00-31, 8-17-2000)
   C.   Monetary damages may be assessed by the village for the violations and
in the amounts described below, per day for each day that such violation occurs
or continues:
      1.   Failure to offer, provide or maintain cable services to any
subscriber and eligible, potential subscriber: fifty dollars ($50.00).
      2.   Failure to obtain or file with the village clerk evidence of the
insurance or bond required by this article: one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      3.   Failure to file with the village clerk, or to provide access to,
data, records, documents or reports required by this article: one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
      4.   Failure to comply with construction or maintenance standards
required by this article, including, but not limited to, the standards set
forth in subsection 4-1-12A2 of this article: one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. 01-40, 12-6-2001)
   D.   The village may impose any or all of these remedies against a
franchisee for the violations specified, and such remedies shall be in addition
to any and all other remedies, at law or in equity, which may be available to
the village under any applicable law. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-26: PROCEDURES:
   A.   In the event that village shall determine in its sole discretion that a
franchisee has violated any material provision of this article or any
applicable franchise agreement, the village shall then provide franchisee with
written notice of such violation, and its intent to seek a remedy in accord
with section
4-1-25 of this article.
      1.   Such notice shall reasonably specify the nature of and basis for
finding the alleged violation.
      2.   Such notice shall allow franchisee a period of forty five (45) days
subsequent to receipt of the notice within which to provide evidence that the
violation did not occur, to correct the violation, or to provide adequate
assurance of performance in compliance with the award of franchise.
   B.   If the violation is not remedied, or franchisee is not in the process
of remedying the violation, or if franchisee has failed to prove to the
satisfaction of the village that the violation has not occurred, within the
time specified, then the village shall determine whether or not such violation
was excusable, in accord with the following procedures:
      1.   The village shall conduct an informal review of the allegations
against the franchisee, pursuant to notice of not less than ten (10) days to
the franchisee of the time and place of the review, and at which franchisee
shall be given an opportunity to be heard. The reviewing body may be the
village board of trustees or a committee thereof designated for such purpose.
      2.   If such informal review does not result in a satisfactory resolution
of the allegations, or the franchisee thereafter requests it by written request
delivered to the village clerk within five (5) business days after the date the
informal review is concluded, then a public hearing on the allegations shall be
conducted before the village board.
   C.   Franchisee and the village and any interested party shall be allowed to
present evidence, to cross examine witnesses, and to present argument to the
board prior to its decision. The village shall prepare written findings of fact
in support of its decision following the public hearing, and shall promptly
notify franchisee of its decision. Either party may provide for a written
transcription of the hearing to be made at its own expense.
   D.   After the written determination by the village to revoke the franchise,
after such public hearing, franchisee may appeal said decision to an
appropriate state or federal court or agency.
   E.   During the time any appeal actually filed shall remain pending and
undetermined, the franchise shall remain in full force and effect unless the
term thereof sooner expires, or unless a tribunal with jurisdiction thereof
shall order otherwise. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-27: EXCUSE FOR NONPERFORMANCE:
In the event that a franchisee's performance of any of the terms, conditions,
obligations, or requirements of the franchise or franchise agreement is
prevented or impaired because of any cause beyond its reasonable control or not
reasonably foreseeable, such inability to perform shall be deemed to be
excused, and no penalties or sanctions shall be imposed as a result thereof;
provided, franchisee shall notify the village within a reasonable time after
its discovery of such cause. Such causes shall include, but not be limited to,
acts of nature, and civil emergencies. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-28: REMOVAL OF SYSTEM:
   A.   At the expiration of the term for which any franchise is granted, or
upon its revocation or termination, as provided for herein, the village shall
have the right to require franchisee to remove, at franchisee's expense, all or
any designed portion of system from all streets and public or private property
within the village.
      1.   In so removing system, franchisee shall refill and compact at its
own expense any excavation that shall be made by it and shall leave all
streets, and public and private property in as good a condition as that
prevailing prior to franchisee's removal of system, and conforming to current
minimum standards in effect in the village, subject to the approval of the
superintendent of public works or village engineer, and without affecting,
altering or disturbing in any way electric, telephone or other utility cables,
wires or attachments.
      2.   The village shall have the right to inspect and approve the
condition of such streets and public and private property after removal.
      3.   The bond, insurance, indemnity and penalty provisions of this
article shall remain in full force and effect until such removal shall have
been completed and approved by the village.
   B.   If, in the sole discretion of the village, franchisee has failed to
commence removal of system, or such part thereof as was designated by village,
within thirty (30) days after written notice of the village's demand for
removal is given, or if franchisee has failed to complete such removal within
ninety (90) days after written notice of village's demand for removal is given,
village shall have the right to exercise one of the following options:
      1.   Declare all right, title and interest to system to be in village
with all rights of ownership including, but not limited to, the right to
operate the system or transfer the system to another for operation by it
provided that insurance or bond proceeds may be used to remove any encumbrance
on system.
      2.   Declare system abandoned and cause system, or such part thereof as
village shall designate, to be removed at no cost to village. The cost of said
removal shall be recoverable from the bond, insurance, indemnification and
penalties provided for in this article, or from franchisee directly as a
liquidated damage.
   C.   Any portion of the system not designated by the village for removal
shall belong to and become the property of the village without payment to
franchisee and franchisee shall execute and deliver such documents as the
village shall request, in form and substance acceptable to the village, to
evidence such ownership by the village. (Ord. 00-31, 8-17-2000)
4-1-29: UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any firm, person, group, company, corporation,
or governmental body or agency, without the express consent of the grantee, to
make or possess, or assist anybody in making or possessing, any connection,
extension, or division, whether physically, acoustically, inductively,
electronically or otherwise, with or to any segment of the system.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any firm, person, group, company, corporation,
or government body or agency to wilfully interfere, tamper, remove, obstruct,
or damage, or assist thereof, any part or segment of the system for any purpose
whatsoever.
   C.   Any firm, person, group, company, corporation or government body or
agency found guilty of violating this section may be fined not less than twenty
dollars ($20.00) plus the costs of the action nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) plus the costs of the action for each and every offense. Each
day an offense continues shall be considered a separate occurrence. (Ord. 00-
31, 8-17-2000)
ARTICLE II
LICENSED REFUSE AND RECYCLING CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Licenses
4-2-2: Application And Selection
4-2-3: Regulations
4-2-4: Revocation
4-2-5: Penalty
4-2-1: LICENSES:
   A.   The president and village board of trustees shall annually issue
licenses to commercial refuse and recycling collection contractors for the
purpose of allowing said contractors to enter into private contracts for the
collection of commercial trash, refuse and recycling within the village limits.
   B.   The president and board of trustees shall annually issue one license to
a residential refuse and recycling collection contractor for the collection of
trash, refuse and recycling from residences within the village limits. (Ord.
08-16, 4-17-2008)
4-2-2: APPLICATION AND SELECTION:
   A.   All applications for said refuse and recycling collection licenses
shall be submitted on forms prepared by the village and accompanied by the
license fee no later than the third Thursday of April of each year.
      1.   The annual fee for a residential refuse and recycling collection
license shall be established from time to time by the board of trustees.
      2.   The annual fee for a commercial refuse and recycling collection
license shall be established from time to time by the board of trustees.
   B.   All said applications submitted and not accepted shall be returned with
license fee deposit, not later than ten (10) days subsequent to said second
regular village board meeting in April. (Ord. 08-16, 4-17-2008)
4-2-3: REGULATIONS:
   A.   All applicants for a refuse and recycling license shall comply with the
following regulations:
      1.   Enclosed, leakproof, packer type disposal trucks shall be
exclusively used.
      2.   Pick up shall be from customer's approved trash and recycling
barrels and containers located not more than twenty feet (20') from truck
accessway, and pick up shall not commence prior to six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
      3.   General liability and motor vehicle insurances shall be required
with limits of not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) to one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) on personnel, equipment, and operations, and
the contractor shall further provide property damage insurance in a minimum
amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) and workers' compensation
and occupational disease insurance in amounts meeting minimum requirements for
the state.
         a.   Certificates evidencing such insurance shall be delivered to the
village clerk before any work is commenced within the village by a licensee
under this article.
         b.   All such policies of insurance shall require that in the event of
cancellation, the village clerk be notified within ten (10) days of such
action. (Ord. 08-16, 4-17-2008)
4-2-4: REVOCATION:
In the event a duly licensed refuse and recycling contractor violates any of
the provisions of this article, or any federal, state or local laws, the
village shall have the right, in addition to enforcing criminal penalties
against such firm, to revoke the license of said contractor on thirty (30)
days' written notice of said violation. In such case, no refund of the license
fee shall be provided. (Ord. 08-16, 4-17-2008)
4-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this article shall
be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and the election to pursue any such
penalties shall not affect any other rights or remedies of the village
hereunder. (Ord. 86-5, 6-5-1986)
ARTICLE III
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definition
4-3-2: Exemption From Definition
4-3-3: Prohibited Conduct
4-3-4: Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITION:
“Person” shall mean any individual, corporation, company, foundation,
association, labor organization, partnership, society, joint stock company,
group of organizations, firm or business entity.
"Solicitor" shall mean any person who, for itself, himself or herself or by
its, his or her agents, employees, volunteers, contractors, or servants,
without any prior appointment or prearrangement with the customer, offers, asks
for and/or takes orders for future delivery at retail of any merchandise or
other article or thing whatsoever, or any service, not ordered by telephone,
computer link, or other remote communication.
The term "solicitor" shall include any person who, for itself, himself or
herself or by its, his or her agents, employees, volunteers, contractors or
servants, without any prior appointment or prearrangement with the customer,
asks for donations of money or tangible personal property for any commercial or
educational purpose. (Ord. 16-18, 6-16-2016; amd. Ord. 24-30, 8-1-2024)
4-3-2: EXEMPTION FROM DEFINITION:
The definition of solicitor shall not include those persons soliciting for
religious or political purposes.
The definition of solicitor shall not include persons soliciting for a
charitable organization, as defined in Section 2 of the Charitable Games Act
(230 ILCS 30/2), for charitable purposes. (Ord. 16-18, 6-16-2016; amd. Ord. 24-
30, 8-1-2024)
4-3-3: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   Prior to soliciting within the village, all solicitors must register
with the village. While soliciting within the village, all solicitors must wear
lanyards displaying their registration. The village clerk is authorized to keep
a list of solicitors currently registered with the village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor to cheat or deceive any person
in the village; or to fraudulently misrepresent the quality, price or amount of
any goods, wares, merchandise, article or thing, or service, for which orders
are taken in the village; or to fraudulently misrepresent the purpose of any
solicitation, or the person, firm or entity to be benefited thereby; or to
misrepresent that a donor will be eligible for a tax deduction for any donation
or contribution solicited.
   C.   Any solicitor, upon arriving at any private property on which has
conspicuously posted a sign, "No Solicitors", or a substantially similar sign,
shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises, and it shall be
unlawful for such solicitor to remain on the property.
   D.   Any solicitor who has entered onto any private property, whether
invited thereon or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart therefrom when
requested to do so by the occupant, and it shall be unlawful for such solicitor
to remain on the property after such request.
   E.   All solicitors shall, at all times, conduct themselves in accordance
with this code, local ordinances, state and federal laws and regulations, and
no solicitor shall violate any such code, ordinances, laws or regulations.
(Ord. 16-18, 6-16-2016; amd. Ord. 24-30, 8-1-2024)
4-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject to a
penalty as provided in section 12-1-3 of this code. Each day that any offense
shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 16-18, 6-16-2016;
amd. Ord. 24-30, 8-1-2024)
ARTICLE IV
JUNK DEALERS
SECTION:
4-4-1: License Required
4-4-2: Applications
4-4-3: Fee
4-4-4: Stolen Goods
4-4-5: Vehicles
4-4-6: Junk Yards, Location
4-4-7: Penalty
4-4-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate or carry on the business of junk dealer or to
keep any junk shop, store or place for the purchase or sale of junk, rags, old
rope, paper or bagging, old iron, brass, copper or empty bottles without first
having secured a license therefor. (1985 Code)
4-4-2: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Village Clerk on the form
provided by the Village. (1985 Code)
4-4-3: FEE:
The fee for such license shall be thirty dollars ($30.00) for an annual license
and five dollars ($5.00) for a daily license. (1985 Code)
4-4-4: STOLEN GOODS:
Every keeper of a junk shop who shall receive or be in possession of any goods,
articles, or things of value which may have been lost or stolen shall, upon
demand, produce such article or thing to any member of the Police Department
for examination. (1985 Code)
4-4-5: VEHICLES:
Every vehicle used by a junk dealer in the conduct of his business shall bear
thereon in legible characters the name and address of the owner and proprietor
thereof. (1985 Code)
4-4-6: JUNK YARDS, LOCATION:
No junk yard shall be located on any premises unless all the provisions of the
zoning and other applicable ordinances are complied with. (1985 Code)
4-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Article shall be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for
each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE V
PEDDLERS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definition
4-5-2: Prohibited Conduct
4-5-3: Penalty
4-5-1: DEFINITION:
"Peddler" shall mean any person, firm, or business entity who, for itself, or
by its agents, employees, or servants, with only a temporary location for doing
business and not intending to establish a permanent place for such business in
the village, sells at retail, offers for sale, sells and delivers, barters or
exchanges any goods, wares, merchandise, or any other article or thing
whatsoever, or any service not ordered by telephone, computer link, or other
remote communication.
The term "peddler" shall include persons who will engage in the activities
described in this section during any festival, fair, trade show, exposition,
flea market, or like event to be held within the village. (Ord. 16-18, 6-16-
2016)
4-5-2: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any peddler to go from house to house, place
to place, or street to street in the village, provided, this prohibition shall
not apply to persons who make regular sales or deliveries of goods or services
by prior agreement with the occupant of any property, house or other place in
the village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any peddler to cheat or deceive any person in
the village, or to fraudulently misrepresent the quality, price or amount of
the goods, wares, merchandise, article or thing, or service sold, offered for
sale, sold and delivered, bartered or exchanged, including promise of any
refund without providing a written statement of the refund terms and
conditions.
   C.   Any peddler, upon arriving upon any private property on which has
conspicuously posted a sign, "No Peddlers", or substantially similar sign,
shall refrain from entering and/or immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises, and it shall be unlawful for such peddler to remain on the property.
   D.   Any peddler who has entered onto any private property, whether invited
thereon or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart therefrom when
requested to do so by the occupant, and it shall be unlawful for such peddler
to remain on the property after such request.
   E.   No person shall engage in the business of peddler prior to eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and later than twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on any day.
   F.   Any peddler shall at all times conduct himself or herself in accordance
with this code, local ordinances, state and federal laws and regulations, and
no peddler shall violate any such code, ordinances, laws or regulations. (Ord.
16-18, 6-16-2016)
4-5-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
12-1-3 of this code. Each day that any offense shall exist or continue shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 16-18, 6-16-2016)
ARTICLE VI
RAFFLE LICENSE
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Qualifications
4-6-3: Application
4-6-4: Regulations Governing Licensee
4-6-5: Fees
4-6-6: Administration
4-6-7: Enforcement
4-6-8: Severability Clause
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable
sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable operating
expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
OTHER: Unless the context otherwise requires, all words and phrases used herein
shall have the same meaning as the same or similar words or phrases defined and
used in this State law.
RAFFLE LICENSING AGENT: The raffle licensing agent for the Village of Hampshire
is the Village Clerk.
STATE LAW: Whenever reference herein is made to "State law", it shall mean and
refer to an Act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois, entitled "An
Act to provide for licensing and regulating certain games of chance and
amending certain Acts herein named", approved August 5, 1981, as amended. (Ord.
85-23, 9-5-1985)
4-6-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Applicants: A license to operate a raffle shall be issued only to bona
fide religious, charitable, labor, fraternal, educational or veterans'
organizations that operate without profit to their members and which have been
in existence continuously for a period of five (5) years immediately before
making application for a license and which have had during the entire five (5)
year period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objects.
   B.   No license shall be issued to:
      1.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony.
      2.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter.
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character.
      4.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection B1,
B2 or B3 of this Section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in
which such a person is active or employed.
      5.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection B1, B2 or
B3 of this Section, is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated
or not.
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection B1, B2 or
B3 of this Section, is to participate in the management or operation of a
raffle as defined herein. (Ord. 85-23, 9-5-1985)
4-6-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Required Information: Application forms shall be furnished by the
raffle licensing agent and filed with same. Said applications shall show the
following:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant;
      2.   The date, time and location at which winning chances will be
determined;
      3.   The place and date of chartering or incorporation of applicant, if
applicable;
      4.   The name, address, telephone number, social security number, and
date of birth of the presiding officer, secretary, and raffle manager of the
applicant.;
      5.   The area or areas in which raffle tickets will be sold;
      6.   A list of prizes and the retail value of each prize to be awarded in
a single raffle; and
      7.   The price to be charged for each ticket sold.
   B.   The license application shall contain a sworn statement attesting to
the accuracy of the information provided and to the not-for-profit character of
the prospective licensee. Said statement shall be signed by the presiding
officer, secretary and raffle manager of that prospective licensee.
   C.   An application for a license under this Article is valid for one raffle
only.
   D.   Any raffle in which the aggregate value of the prizes is less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be considered automatically licensed without
the necessity of an application. (Ord. 85-23, 9-5-1985)
4-6-4: REGULATIONS GOVERNING LICENSEE:
   A.   Conduct Of Raffles: The conducting of raffles is subject to the
following restrictions:
      1.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the licensee permitted to conduct that game.
      2.   No person except a bona fide member of the licensee organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
      3.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle.
      4.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the areas specified
on the license.
      5.   Winning chances must be determined only at the time, date and
location specified on the license.
      6.   Any person selling raffle chances must carry a copy of the license
issued for the raffle.
   B.   Raffle Limits:
      1.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in a single raffle shall not exceed fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00).
      2.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
      3.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold shall not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      4.   The maximum days during which chances may be issued or sold shall
not exceed one hundred eighty (180).
      5.   The license shall not be valid for more than two hundred ten (210)
days.
   C.   Raffle Manager And Bond:
      1.   All operation and conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision
of a single raffle manager as designated on the license application.
      2.   The manager shall give a fidelity bond in the sum of the aggregate
retail value of the prizes as set out on the application. The bond shall be in
favor of the organization conditioned upon the raffle manager's honesty in the
performance of his duties. Said bond shall provide that notice shall be given
in writing to the Village Clerk not less than thirty (30) days prior to its
cancellation period. If the retail value of the prizes exceed fifteen thousand
dollars ($15,000.00), such bond shall be issued by a corporate surety.
   D.   Records:
      1.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffle programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the licensee (including bingo gross receipts,
if bingo games are also conducted by the same licensee pursuant to license
issued by the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois), and placed in a
separate account. Each organization shall have separate records of its raffles.
The person who accounts for gross receipts and expenses from the operation of
raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for other revenues of the
organization.
      2.   Each licensee shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses and
net proceeds for each single raffle at which winning chances are determined.
All reasonable operating expenses deducted from gross receipts for each single
raffle shall be documented with receipts or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be
itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and date of payment.
      3.   Each licensee, within thirty (30) days of the raffle, shall report
to its membership and to the village clerk each of the following:
         a.   Gross receipts generated by the conducting of the raffle;
         b.   An itemized list of all reasonable operating expenses which have
been deducted from the gross receipts;
         c.   Net proceeds from the conducting of the raffle;
         d.   An itemized list of the distribution of the net proceeds; and
         e.   A list of prize winners.
      4.   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three (3)
years, and the organization shall make available for public inspection their
records relating to the operation of a raffle at reasonable times and places.
   E.   Unauthorized Gambling: Nothing in this article shall be construed to
authorize the conducting or operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise,
activity, or device other than raffles as provided for herein. (Ord. 85-23, 9-
5-1985)
4-6-5: FEES:
The fee for registering to conduct any raffle in the village shall be based on
the aggregate retail value of the prize(s) to be awarded in same, as follows:
 
Aggregate Value     Fee  
$0.00 -    $ 500.00 None
501.00 -   5,000.00 $10.00
5,001.00 - and up   25.00
 
(Ord. 02-22, 7-18-2002)
4-6-6: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The village clerk shall be charged with the administration of this
article.
   B.   The authority and jurisdiction of the village to issue a license to a
prospective licensee shall extend only to the area of the village and such
other areas as provided for by any intergovernmental agreement entered into
pursuant to subsection D of this section and not inconsistent with state law.
   C.   The village clerk shall act upon a license application within ten (10)
days from the date of the application.
   D.   The president and board of trustees of the village may enter into a
written contract with one or more Kane County municipalities which have adopted
a raffle ordinance consistent with this article to jointly establish a system
for the licensing of organizations to operate raffles within the unincorporated
area of Kane County, and within the corporate limits of any municipality that
is party to such contract. Such contract shall be consistent with the
limitations of this article, except that a license issued by one government
unit shall be valid throughout the jurisdiction of all parties to the contract.
(Ord. 85-23, 9-5-1985)
4-6-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Penalties: Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this
article shall constitute a violation. Whoever violates any of the provisions of
this article shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor, and may be sentenced to
up to thirty (30) days in jail and/or fined up to five hundred dollars
($500.00). Each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   B.   Abatement: The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not
preclude the village attorney from instituting appropriate action to prevent
unlawful raffles or to restrain, correct or abate a violation of this article
or of the conditions of a raffle license issued pursuant hereto. (Ord. 85-23,
9-5-1985)
4-6-8: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any provision of this article or the application thereof is held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
such ruling shall not affect any other provisions of this article not
specifically included in such ruling or which can be given effect without the
unconstitutional or invalid provision or application; and to this end, the
provisions of this article are declared severable. (Ord. 85-23, 9-5-1985)
ARTICLE VII
COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: License Required
4-7-3: License Fees And Term
4-7-4: Application For License
4-7-5: Transfer Of License
4-7-6: Increasing Number Of Devices
4-7-7: License Restrictions
4-7-8: Number Of Licenses
4-7-9: Penalty
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES: Apparatus used by a consumer which, in return
for the payment of a fee, provides the user with diversion or amusement by
physical and/or mental competition conducted in accordance with prescribed
rules or conditions. The term includes, whether manually or electrically
operated or a combination thereof, all slot machines of every kind and nature,
all amusement machines, whether purporting to be games of skill or otherwise,
for which a fee or charge is made for the privilege of playing or operating the
machine, but excluding all standard vending machines used in connection with
the purchase of standard brands of merchandise, and further excluding jukeboxes
for which a fee is paid for the selection of music desired, and further
excluding all machines which, under the laws of the state of Illinois, are
gambling devices, including video gaming terminals as defined in the Illinois
video gaming act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/5-1-1 et seq., as now in
effect or as hereafter amended.
PROPRIETOR: Any person who, as the owner, lessee or proprietor, has under his
control any establishment, place or premises in or at which such coin operated
amusement devices are placed or kept for use or play, or on exhibition for the
purpose of use or play by persons other than the owner or proprietor of such
device and his immediate family. (Ord. 12-19, 7-19-2012)
4-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, install, maintain or operate any
coin operated amusement device for use by the public and for which a fee is
charged without first having obtained a license for each device as provided
herein. (1985 Code)
4-7-3: LICENSE FEES AND TERM:
   A.   The annual fee for a coin operated amusement device license shall be
established from time to time by the board of trustees. (Ord. 02-22, 7-18-2002)
   B.   The annual license fee shall be payable one year in advance.
   C.   The term of all licenses issued for coin operated amusement devices
shall commence on January 1 and shall terminate on December 31. (1985 Code)
4-7-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring a coin operated amusement device license shall make
application for that purpose to the village clerk on a form to be provided by
the village and shall state the following:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant, and if a firm, corporation,
partnership or association, the principal officers thereof and their addresses.
   B.   The address of the premises where the licensed device or devices are to
be operated, together with the nature of the business at such location.
   C.   The trade name, general description and total number of coin operated
amusement devices to be licensed.
   D.   The name and address of the owner of the coin operated amusement device
or devices if other than the applicant.
   E.   All applications for coin operated amusement devices shall be filed
with the village clerk on or before the first regular meeting in December of
the board of trustees in order to be considered for a license for the following
year. (1985 Code)
4-7-5: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
No license which is issued to any person for a coin operated amusement device
shall be transferable. (1985 Code)
4-7-6: INCREASING NUMBER OF DEVICES:
In the event that a coin operated amusement device licensee desires, after the
expiration of any portion of the license term, to increase the number of
devices to be used in his establishment to a number within established
limitations, if any, said licensee shall surrender his license to the village
clerk who shall issue a new license showing the number of devices licensed
thereunder, upon payment of the proper license fee therefor. (1985 Code)
4-7-7: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the licensee to permit such noise, either by
mechanical means or on the part of the patrons, which shall cause a disturbance
of the peace to the adjacent and surrounding properties and uses.
   B.   The licensee shall provide adequate and orderly parking for all
bicycles and shall keep the front of the premises unobstructed so that the
sidewalks are clear and open to pedestrian traffic.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize, permit or
license any gambling device, including any video gaming terminal as defined in
the Illinois video gaming act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/5-1-1 et seq.,
as now in effect or as hereafter amended. (Ord. 12-19, 7-19-2012)
4-7-8: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The total number of licenses for coin operated amusement devices shall be for
ten (10) in number. (Ord. 94-39, 12-1-1994)
4-7-9: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation of any of the provisions of this article by any person
licensed hereunder shall subject such violator to suspension and/or revocation
of his license by the board of trustees.
   B.   Any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00), and each day a violation continues shall be considered a separate
violation. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE VIII
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS AND MASSAGE SERVICES
(Rep. by Ord. 06-04, 2-2-2006)
ARTICLE IX
TOBACCO PRODUCTS
SECTION:
4-9-1: Definitions
4-9-2: Prohibitions
4-9-3: Exceptions
4-9-4: Penalty
4-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article:
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT: Means a product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing or by any other means.
   A.   For purposes of this article, "alternative nicotine product" shall not
include the following: cigarettes (as defined in section 1 of the Illinois
Cigarette Tax Act), and tobacco products (as defined in section 10-5 of the
Tobacco Products Tax Act of 1995); tobacco product and electronic cigarette as
defined in this section; or any product approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco
dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and
sold solely for that approved purpose.
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE: Means:
   A.   Any device that employs a battery or other mechanism to heat a solution
or substance to produce a vapor or aerosol intended for inhalation;
   B.   Any cartridge or container of a solution or substance intended to be
used with or in the device or to refill the device; or
   C.   Any solution or substance, whether or not it contains nicotine,
intended for use in the device.
   D.   "Electronic cigarette" includes, but is not limited to, any electronic
nicotine delivery system, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic
pipe, electronic hookah, vape pen, or similar product or device, and any
components or parts that can be used to build the product or device.
   E.   "Electronic cigarette" does not include the following: cigarettes (as
defined in section 1 of the Illinois Cigarette Tax Act), and tobacco products
(as defined in section 10-5 of the Tobacco Products Tax Act of 1995); tobacco
product and electronic cigarette as defined in this section; or any product
approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a
tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other
medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved
purpose; any asthma inhaler prescribed by a physician for that condition and
being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose; any asthma inhaler
prescribed by a physician for that condition and is being marketed and sold
solely for that approved purpose; and any therapeutic product approved for use
under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.
NICOTINE: Means any form of the chemical nicotine, including any salt or
complex, regardless of whether the chemical is naturally or synthetically
derived.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Means any product containing or made from tobacco, that is
intended for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed,
dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested into the body by any other
means, including but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing
tobacco, pipe tobacco, snuff, snus, and any other smokeless tobacco product
which tobacco that is finely cut, ground, powdered, or leaf and intended to be
placed in the oral cavity.
   A.   "Tobacco product" includes any component, part, or accessary of a
tobacco product, whether or not sold separately.
   B.   "Tobacco product" does not included the following: any electronic
cigarette, any alternative nicotine product as defined in this section, or any
product that has been approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely
for that approved purpose; any asthma inhaler prescribed by a physician for
that condition and being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose.
(Ord. 17-28, 11-16-2017; amd. Ord. 19-22, 8-22-2019)
4-9-2: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No person under twenty-one (21) years of age shall purchase any tobacco
product, electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person under eighteen
(18) years of age shall possess any tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or
alternative nicotine product in any form, anywhere in the Village.
   C.   No person shall sell, buy for, distribute samples of, give away, or
furnish any tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine
product to any person under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   D.   Before selling, offering for sale, giving or furnishing a tobacco
product, electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product to another
person, the person selling, offering for sale, giving or furnishing such
product shall verify that the purchaser or recipient is not less than twenty-
one (21) years of age by:
      1.   Examining from any person that reasonably appears to be under thirty
(30) years of age a government-issued photographic identification that
establishes the person to be twenty-one (21) years of age or older; or
      2.   For sales of such products via internet, or other remote sales
method, performing an age verification through an independent third party age
verification service that compares information available from public records to
the personal information entered by the purchaser or recipient during the
ordering process that establishes the person to be twenty-one (21) years of age
or older.
   E.   No person under sixteen (16) years of age may sell any tobacco product,
electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product at a retail establishment
selling tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine
products; and no person shall engage, employ, or permit any person under
sixteen (16) years of age to sell any tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or
alternative nicotine product at a retail establishment in the Village. This
subsection does not apply to a sales clerk in a family-owned business which can
prove that the sales clerk is in fact a son or daughter of the owner.
   F.   No person under twenty-one (21) years of age, in the furtherance or
facilitation of obtaining any tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or
alternative nicotine product, shall misrepresent his or her identity or age,
and no person shall possess, use, or display a false or altered identification
document for such purpose, or transfer, alter or deface an identification card.
(Ord. 17-28, 11-16-2017; amd. Ord. 19-22, 8-22-2019)
4-9-3: EXCEPTIONS:
It is not a violation of this article for a person under twenty-one (21) years
of age to purchase or possess a tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or
alternative nicotine product, if the person under the age of twenty-one (21)
purchases or is given the tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or alternative
nicotine product in any of its forms from a retail seller of tobacco products,
electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products, or an employee of the
retail seller, pursuant to a plan or action to investigate, patrol, or
otherwise conduct a "sting operation" or enforcement action against a retail
seller of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine
products or a person employed by the retail seller of tobacco products,
electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products or on any premises
authorized to sell tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative
nicotine products, to determine if tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or
alternative nicotine products are being sold or given to persons under twenty-
one (21) years of age if the "sting operation" or enforcement action is
approved by, conducted by, or conducted on behalf of the Department of State
Police, the County Sheriff, a Municipal Police Department, the Department of
Revenue, the Department of Public Health, or a local Health Department. The
results of any sting operation or enforcement action, including the name of the
clerk, shall be provided to the retail seller within seven (7) business days of
the result. (Ord. 17-28, 11-16-2017; amd. Ord. 19-22, 8-22-2019)
4-9-4: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this article is guilty of a
petty offense, and may be fined an amount not greater than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00); in addition, such person may be required to perform
community service, to pay a fee for and to attend a Smoker's Education or Youth
Diversion Program, and pay all applicable court costs.
   B.   For purposes of this section, a "Smoker's Education Program" or a
"Youth Diversion Program" includes, but is not limited to, a seminar or
presentation designed to educate a person on the physical psychological effects
of using tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, and/or alternative nicotine
products, and the health consequences of such use.
   C.   The penalties in this section shall be and are in addition to any other
penalties prescribed under the Illinois Cigarette Tax Act and the Tobacco
Products Tax Act of 1995. (Ord. 17-28, 11-16-2017)
ARTICLE X
HOTEL TAX
SECTION:
4-10-1: Definitions
4-10-2: Tax Imposed; Rate; Payment Procedure
4-10-3: Inspection Of Books And Records
4-10-4: Transmittal Of Tax Revenue
4-10-5: Failure To Pay Tax; Action
4-10-6: Penalty For Violation
4-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Article, whenever any of the following words, terms or
definitions are used in this Article, they shall have the meaning ascribed to
them in this Section:
HOTEL ROOM OR MOTEL ROOM: A room within a structure offered for rental on a
daily basis and containing facilities for sleeping. One room offered for rental
with or without an adjoining bath shall be considered as a single hotel or
motel room. The number of hotel or motel rooms within a suite shall be computed
on the basis of those rooms utilized for the purposes of sleeping.
OWNER: Any person having an ownership interest in or conducting the operation
of a hotel or motel room or receiving the consideration for the rental of such
hotel or motel room. (Ord. 97-29, 9-18-1997)
4-10-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATE; PAYMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   There is levied and imposed a tax of five percent (5%) of the rent
charged for the privilege and use of renting a hotel or motel room within the
Village for each twenty four (24) hour period or any portion thereof for which
a daily room charge is made; provided, however, that the tax shall not be
levied and imposed upon any person who rents a hotel or motel room for more
than thirty (30) consecutive days or to a person who works and lives in the
same hotel or motel.
   B.   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax is to
be borne by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying the hotel or motel
room, said person hereinafter referred to as renter.
   C.   The tax levied by this Article shall be paid in addition to any and all
other taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner of every hotel or
motel to secure the tax from the renter of the motel or hotel room and to pay
over to the Village Treasurer the tax, under procedures prescribed by the
Village Treasurer, or as otherwise provided in this Article.
   D.   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this Article shall
secure the tax from the renter at the time he collects the rental payment for
the hotel or motel room. (Ord. 97-29, 9-18-1997)
4-10-3: INSPECTION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
The Village Treasurer, or his authorized representative, may enter the premises
of any hotel or motel for inspection and examination of records in order to
effectuate the proper administration of this Article, and to assure the
enforcement of the collection of the tax imposed.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or interfere with the
Village Treasurer or his authorized representative in the discharge of his
duties in the performance of this Article.
   B.   It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete books
and records to which the Village Treasurer, or his authorized representative,
shall at all times have full access, which records shall include a daily sheet
showing:
      1.   The number of hotel or motel rooms rented during the twenty four
(24) hour period, including multiple rentals of the same hotel or motel room
where such shall occur; and
      2.   The actual hotel or motel tax receipts collected for the date in
question. (Ord. 97-29, 9-18-1997)
4-10-4: TRANSMITTAL OF TAX REVENUE:
   A.   The owner or owners of each hotel or motel room within the Village
shall file tax returns showing tax receipts received with respect to each hotel
and motel room during each month commencing on and including the first day of
each month on forms prescribed by the Village Treasurer. The returns shall be
due on or before the fifteenth day of the succeeding calendar month.
   B.   The first taxing period for the purpose of this Article shall commence
on January 1, 1998, and the tax return and payment for such period shall be due
on or before February 15, 1998. Thereafter, reporting periods and taxes shall
be paid in accordance with the provisions of this Article. At the time of
filing the tax returns, the owner shall pay to the Village Treasurer all taxes
due for the period to which the tax return applies.
   C.   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty shall be
added and collected at the rate of one percent (1%) per thirty (30) day period,
or portion thereof, from the date of delinquency until date of payment.
   D.   The owner shall file his returns on the receipts basis (reporting, for
the return period, only those receipts received during such return period).
   E.   Except as provided in this Article, all information received by the
Village Treasurer from returns filed under this Article, or from any
investigation conducted under the provisions of this Article, shall be
confidential, except for official purposes for the Village, or pursuant to
official procedures for collection of any State tax or enforcement of any civil
or criminal penalty or sanction imposed by this Article or by State statute.
      1.   Nothing contained in this Article shall prevent the Village
Treasurer from publishing or making available to the public the names and
addresses of persons filing returns under this Article, and the number of rooms
covered in the return, or from publishing or making available reasonable
statistics concerning the operation of the tax wherein the contents of returns
are grouped into aggregates in such a way that the information contained in any
individual return shall not be disclosed.
      2.   The Village Treasurer may make available to the Secretary of the
Treasury of the United States, or a proper official of the State or a delegate
of any other state imposing a tax upon a motel or hotel room, for exclusively
official purposes, information received by the Village Treasurer in the
administration of this Article. (Ord. 97-29, 9-18-1997)
4-10-5: FAILURE TO PAY TAX; ACTION:
Whenever any person fails to pay any tax as provided in this Article, the
Village Attorney shall, at the direction of the Village Board of Trustees,
bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce the payment of the tax on
behalf of the Village in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 97-29, 9-
18-1997)
4-10-6: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Any person found wilfully guilty of failing to pay, collect, report and
transmit the hotel or motel tax to the Village Treasurer in accordance with the
terms of this Article shall, except when otherwise specifically provided, upon
conviction thereof be punished by a fine as otherwise allowed by this Code.
(Ord. 97-29, 9-18-1997)
ARTICLE XI
UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
4-11-1: Tax Imposed
4-11-2: Exemptions To Tax
4-11-3: Tax Is Additional
4-11-4: Definitions
4-11-5: Effective Date Of Tax
4-11-6: Tax Returns
4-11-7: Rebates (Rep. by Ord. 09-15, 5-7-2009)
4-11-8: Limitations
4-11-9: Penalty
4-11-1: TAX IMPOSED 1 :
A tax is hereby established and levied by the village on the following
occupations or privileges at the rate hereinafter specified: (Ord. 04-18, 6-17-
2004)
   A.   Persons engaged in the act or privilege of originating in such
municipality, or receiving in such municipality, intrastate or interstate
telecommunications by a person, which persons shall be subject to taxation in
accordance with article XVI, "Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax", of
this chapter. (Ord. 04-19, 6-17-2004)
   B.   Effective with respect to gross receipts actually paid to the taxpayer
for services billed on or after September 1, 2004, persons engaged in the
business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling gas for use or
consumption within the limits of the village and not for resale, at the rate of
five percent (5%) of the gross receipts from such business.
   C.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing
or selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
the village, and not for resale, which persons shall be subject to taxation in
accordance with article XII, "Municipal Electricity Tax", of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-18, 6-17-2004)
   D.   Any and all funds collected by the village pursuant to the imposition
of any utility tax under this article, and under article XII of this chapter,
after payment of any rebates pursuant to the provisions of this code, shall be
utilized by the village during the fiscal year extending between May 1, 2006 to
April 30, 2007, for the following purposes:
      1.   Twenty five percent (25%) shall be used solely for improvements to
the streets, roadways, highways, and sidewalks located in the village; and
      2.   Fifty percent (50%) shall be added to the general fund of the
village, to be utilized for such purpose or purposes within said fund as shall
be designated from time to time by the corporate authorities; and
      3.   Twenty five percent (25%) shall be used solely for payment on the
debt service due for the village's alternative revenue bonds, series 2006.
(Ord. 06-09, 4-6-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See article XII of this chapter for municipal electricity tax.
4-11-2: EXEMPTIONS TO TAX:
None of the taxes authorized by this article are imposed with respect to the
following, and as to any such, the provider shall not be required to collect
any such taxes:
   A.   The village and/or transactions originating from any and all village
owned property;
   B.   Any transaction in interstate commerce, or otherwise, to the extent to
which such transaction may not, under the constitution or statutes of the
United States, be made the subject of taxation by the state of Illinois, or any
political subdivision thereof;
   C.   Any person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling of gas, or electricity; or, engaged in the business of
transmitting messages or cable or cable communications for any such
transactions as are now or may become in the future subject to taxation under
the provisions of the municipal retailers' occupation tax act, 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1 et seq.; and
   D.   Any person engaged in a business, or in any privilege, unless the tax
in question has been imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all
persons engaged in businesses of the same class in the municipality, or
exercising the same privilege, within the village. (Ord. 07-08, 2-15-2007)
4-11-3: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
The taxes enumerated in this article shall be in addition to the payment of
money or value of products or services furnished to the municipality by the
taxpayer as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys or other public
places, or installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of
poles, wires, pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's
business. (Ord. 98-1, 1-8-1998)
4-11-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of the taxes enumerated in this article the following
definitions shall apply:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for the transmission of messages;
the consideration received for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling
gas for use or consumption and not for resale; the consideration received for
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling electricity for use or
consumption and not for resale; and for all services rendered in connection
therewith valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
cash, credit, services and property of every kind and material and for all
services rendered therewith, and shall be determined without any deduction on
account of the cost of transmitting such messages, without any deduction on
account of the cost of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of
materials used, labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal corporation or
political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court.
TRANSMITTING MESSAGES: In addition to the usual and popular meaning of person
to person communication, includes the furnishing, for a consideration, of
services or facilities (whether owned or leased), or both, to persons in
connection with the transmission of messages where such persons do not, in
turn, receive any consideration in connection therewith, but shall not include
such furnishing of services or facilities to persons for the transmission of
messages to the extent that any such services or facilities for the
transmission of messages are furnished for a consideration, by such persons to
other persons, for the transmission of messages. (Ord. 98-1, 1-8-1998)
4-11-5: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX:
This article shall be effective as of February 1, 1998, and the tax provided
for herein shall be based on the "gross receipts", as herein defined, actually
paid to the taxpayer for service billed on and after February 1, 1998. (Ord.
98-1, 1-8-1998)
4-11-6: TAX RETURNS:
   A.   Each taxpayer shall make a return to the village treasurer as provided
herein, stating the following information:
      1.   Name.
      2.   Principal place of business.
      3.   Gross receipts during the applicable period.
      4.   Amount of tax to be paid to the village for the period.
      5.   Such other related information as the village may require.
   B.   Returns shall be filed quarterly, and on or before May 31, each
taxpayer shall make said return to the village treasurer for the previous
months of January, February and March; and on or before the last day of each
third month thereafter each taxpayer shall make a like return to the village
treasurer for the corresponding three (3) month period.
   C.   The taxpayer making such return shall, at the time of making such
return, pay to the village treasurer the amount of tax herein imposed; provided
that in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he so elects, report
and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business subject to the tax
during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any amounts
previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based upon any
differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
   D.   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this article, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this article from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
(3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. (Ord.
98-1, 1-8-1998)
4-11-7: REBATES:
(Rep. by Ord. 09-15, 5-7-2009)
4-11-8: LIMITATIONS:
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this article
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 98-1, 1-8-1998)
4-11-9: PENALTY:
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who wilfully violates any other provision of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine as
otherwise provided in this code. In addition, said taxpayer may be subject to a
civil action for recovery of any tax due. (Ord. 98-1, 1-8-1998)
ARTICLE XII
MUNICIPAL ELECTRICITY TAX
SECTION:
4-12-1: Tax Imposed
4-12-2: Exceptions
4-12-3: Additional Taxes
4-12-4: Collection
4-12-5: Reports To Municipality
4-12-6: Credit For Overpayment
4-12-7: Rebate (Rep. by Ord. 09-15, 5-7-2009)
4-12-8: Penalty
4-12-9: Severability Clause
4-12-1: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   A tax is imposed, at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis
for each purchaser, on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges:
The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at
retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the municipality.
      1.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
0.355 cents per kilowatt hour;
      2.   For the next 48,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
0.233 cents per kilowatt hour;
      3.   For the next 50,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
0.210 cents per kilowatt hour;
      4.   For the next 400,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
0.204 cents per kilowatt hour;
      5.   For the next 500,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
0.198 cents per kilowatt hour;
      6.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
0.186 cents per kilowatt hour;
      7.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
0.183 cents per kilowatt hour;
      8.   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
0.181 cents per kilowatt hour;
      9.   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
0.178 cents per kilowatt hour;
      10.   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt hours in a month: 0.175 cents per kilowatt hour.
   B.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, the rates set forth
in subsection A of this section shall be effective as follows:
      1.   For residential customers: on August 1, 1998; and
      2.   For nonresidential customers: on the earlier of: a) the last bill
issued prior to December 31, 2000, or b) the date of the first bill issued
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-104.
   C.   Pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois municipal code, 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, the provisions of article XI of this chapter
(commonly known as the utility tax), shall specifically remain in effect, as
follows:
      1.   For receipts attributable to residential customers, until July 31,
1998; and
      2.   For receipts attributable to nonresidential customers, the earlier
of: a) through the last bill issued prior to December 31, 2000, or b) the date
of the first bill issued to such nonresidential customer pursuant to 220
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-104.
   D.   The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not be effective
until August 1, 1998. (Ord. 98-15, 7-30-1998)
4-12-2: EXCEPTIONS:
None of the taxes authorized by this article are imposed with respect to the
following, and as to any such, the provider shall not be required to collect
any such taxes:
   A.   The village and/or transactions originating from any and all village
owned property;
   B.   Any transaction in interstate commerce, or otherwise, to the extent to
which such transaction may not, under the constitution or statutes of the
United States, be made the subject of taxation by the state of Illinois, or any
political subdivision thereof;
   C.   Any person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling of gas, or electricity; or engaged in the business of
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, for any such
transactions as are now or may become in the future subject to taxation under
the provisions of the municipal retailers' occupation tax act, 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1 et seq.;
   D.   Any person engaged in a business, or in any privilege, unless the tax
in question has been imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all
persons engaged in businesses of the same class in the municipality, whether
privately or municipally owned or operated, or exercising the same privilege,
within the village; and
   E.   Any other person from time to time granted an exemption from such the
imposition of such tax by state law, in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-
1 et seq., or otherwise. (Ord. 07-08, 2-15-2007)
4-12-3: ADDITIONAL TAXES:
Such tax shall be in addition to any and all other taxes levied upon the
taxpayer or any business. (Ord. 98-15, 7-30-1998)
4-12-4: COLLECTION:
   A.   The tax authorized by this article shall be collected from the
purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser.
   B.   This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser and if unpaid, is recoverable in the
same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity.
   C.   Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this article and any such
tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall constitute a debt owed
to the municipality by such person delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser by adding such
tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity.
   D.   Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to such
gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse the
person delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records,
billing customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and
supplying data to the municipality upon request.
   E.   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
municipality in the manner prescribed by the village.
   F.   Any person delivering electricity who files a return pursuant to this
section shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the village the amount of
the tax collected pursuant to this article. (Ord. 98-15, 7-30-1998)
4-12-5: REPORTS TO MUNICIPALITY:
   A.   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer who has not paid
the tax imposed by this article to a person delivering electricity as set forth
in section
4-12-4 of this article and who is not otherwise exempted from paying such tax
shall make a return to the village treasurer for the preceding month stating:
      1.   His name.
      2.   His principal place of business.
      3.   His gross receipts and/or kilowatt hour usage during the month upon
the basis of which the tax is imposed.
      4.   Amount of tax.
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   B.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the village the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he so elects,
report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business subject to
the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any
amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based upon
any differences between such billings, and the taxable gross receipts. (Ord.
98-15, 7-30-1998)
4-12-6: CREDIT FOR OVERPAYMENT:
   A.   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this article, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this article from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
(3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
   B.   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this
article shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such
amount. (Ord. 98-15, 7-30-1998)
4-12-7: REBATE:
(Rep. by Ord. 09-15, 5-7-2009)
4-12-8: PENALTY:
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who wilfully violates any other provision of this article is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
and in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due 1
. (Ord. 98-15, 7-30-1998; amd. Ord. 03-36, 12-18-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
4-12-9: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
In the event that public act 90-561 of the Illinois general assembly shall be
declared unconstitutional; or in the event that section
4-12-1 of this article created by this ordinance 98-15 is voided by court
action; then the provisions of article XI of this chapter (commonly known as
the utility tax) shall remain in effect in all respects as if the same had
never been amended by ordinance 98-15, and any amounts paid to the village by
any person delivering electricity pursuant to this article shall be deemed to
have been paid pursuant to the utility tax as it existed prior to the passage
hereof. (Ord. 98-15, 7-30-1998; amd. Ord. 03-36, 12-18-2003)
ARTICLE XIII
RESTAURANTS AND TAVERNS; OUTDOOR SEATING
SECTION:
4-13-1:    Compliance With Article Required
4-13-2:    Plans
4-13-3:    Obstruction Of/Or Damage To Sidewalk
4-13-4:    Restrictions
4-13-5:    Insurance
4-13-6:    Penalty
4-13-1: COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in the business of operating a
restaurant or tavern in the village to allow outdoor seating of patrons without
complying with the provisions of this article. Prior to establishing an outdoor
seating area, restaurant and tavern operators desiring outdoor seating on
sidewalks or public ways shall submit site plans described in section
4-13-2 and the insurance certificate set forth in section 4-13-5 to the Village
Clerk. (Ord. 99-21, 7-15-1999; amd. Ord. 23-06, 5-4-2023)
4-13-2: PLANS:
Restaurant and tavern operators desiring outdoor seating on sidewalks or public
ways shall submit written site plans to the Village Clerk. The site plans shall
show, at a minimum, the boundary and location of an entrances and all
surrounding parking meters, fire hydrants, light poles, signs, enclosures and
trees. (Ord. 99-21, 7-15-1999; amd. Ord. 23-06, 5-4-2023)
4-13-3: OBSTRUCTION OF/OR DAMAGE TO SIDEWALK:
The provisions of subsection
9-1-3 B, of this code, pertaining to sidewalks in the village, shall not apply
to restaurant or tavern operators allowing outdoor seating in accordance with
this article. The use of sidewalks or public ways for outdoor seating shall
only be permitted if it will not unreasonably interfere with pedestrian or
vehicular traffic.
   A.   In no event shall the uses permitted by this article reduce the portion
of any sidewalk so that wheelchairs, baby strollers, walkers and pedestrians
are no longer allowed to pass on the sidewalk, and if there is not sufficient
room to allow the aforementioned to pass on the sidewalk the restaurant or
tavern furniture shall be declared a public nuisance.
   B.   The use of the sidewalk shall be incidental to the operation of a
restaurant or tavern on private contiguous property or contiguous to the public
way.
   C.   No outdoor furniture or umbrella shall obstruct any street sign or
interfere with curb parking or other public improvements that exist in the
public way.
(Ord. 99-21, 7-15-1999; amd. Ord. 23-06, 5-4-2023)
4-13-4: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The restaurant or tavern operator shall not permit noise or play loud
music, whether live or recorded, in such a manner or with such volume, as shall
cause a disturbance of the peace to any adjacent or surrounding properties and
uses.
   B.   Outdoor seating shall not be allowed after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
on any day, notwithstanding any other authority of the licensee to sell food
and/or alcoholic liquors on the premises until a later hour.
   C.   The outdoor seating area shall be maintained in a clean, sanitary, and
well-kept condition, free of litter, at all times; the outdoor seating area
shall be swept and flushed down daily to prevent anyaccumulation of food,
grease or debris from spillage of anykind that may attract rodents; adequate
receptacles for trash shall e provided in the outdoor seating areas.
   D.   No outdoor seating shall be operated or maintained on neighboring
businesses, residences or empty lots.
   E.   No restaurant or tavern operator shall have, hire or permit live
entertainment in an outdoor seating area, unless otherwise previously
authorized by the Village Manager.
   F.   No special lighting device shall be constructed in the outdoor seating
area without the inspection and permission of an electrical inspector; all
lighting shall be directed downward at a height so as not to cast illumination
outside of the outdoor seating area.
   G.   There shall be no service bar, cooking, preparation of food, or open
fires located within the outside seating area food must be prepared,
refrigerated, etc., in accordance with all applicable laws, statutes,
ordinances, codes, rules and regulations.
   H.   Floors of outdoor seating areas shall be of an impervious surface
including, without limitation, concrete, asphalt or brick material; in no event
shall the uses permitted by this article be allowed to operate under
scaffolding or a construction canopy.
   I.   A fence or enclosure around the perimeter of the outdoor seating area
shall no be required but, if a fence or enclosure is used, the following shall
apply:
      1.   There shall be at least one (1) direct emergency exit from the
outdoor seating area that is distinct from and not through the main building of
the premises;
      2.   Any enclosure around the outdoor seating area shall be erected so as
not to obstruct emergency access to any building;
      3.   Any enclosure around the outdoor seating area shall be erected so as
not to obstruct a view into the area from the street; and
      4.   Occupancy of the enclosed area shall be determined by the village
building code.
   J.   The restaurant or tavern operator shall be held solely responsible for
the conduct of its patrons in the outdoor seating area; no patron shall leave
the outdoor seating:area or an adjacent business establishment with an open
beer, alcoholic beverage or liquor container.
   K.   No animals, other than animals allowed under state law, shall be
permitted to enter into the main building of the premises: if a restaurant or
tavern operator chooses to allow animals in an outdoor seating area, animals
must be leashed at all times and the restaurant or tavern operator shall be
held responsible for the conduct of any animal allowed in the outdoor seating
area.
   L.   The placement of outdoor furniture shall at all times comply with
applicable fire prevention codes and all other applicable state and local laws
relating to fire prevention and fire safety.
   M.   At all times, the restaurant or tavern operator shall comply with all
other local, state or Federal laws, ordinances and regulations including, but
not limited to, health and sanitation codes, rules, laws and regulations. (Ord.
99-21, 7-15-1999; amd. Ord. 02-11, 6-6-2002; Ord. 23-06, 5-4-2023)
4-13-5: INSURANCE:
No such seating shall be allowed on sidewalks or public ways unless there is
first deposited with the village clerk a certificate of insurance issued by a
liability insurance company authorized to do business in the State of Illinois,
naming the village as an additional insured for personal injury and property
damage with limits of coverage not less than three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) per person and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence
for personal injuries and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for
property damage. (Ord. 99-21, 7-15-1999; amd. Ord. 23-06, 5-4-2023)
4-13-6: PENALTY:
   A.   Any tavern or restaurant operator who is found to have violated or
allowed the violation of any of the provisions of this article, following a
hearing before the Local Liquor Control Commission, shall be subject to
revocation or suspension of a related liquor licence: the village shall retain
the right to remove furniture from sidewalks or public ways at any time when,
in its sole discretion, it determines that the placement of the furniture
violates the standards set forth in this article, obstructs or creates a hazard
on the public way or otherwise threatens the public health, safety or welfare.
   B.   Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be fined
not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) and not more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00); and each day a violation continues shall be considered
a separate violation. (Ord. 99-21, 7-15-1999; amd. Ord. 23-06, 5-4-2023)
ARTICLE XIV
LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAXPAYERS' BILL OF RIGHTS
SECTION:
4-14-1: Title
4-14-2: Scope
4-14-3: Definitions
4-14-4: Notice
4-14-5: Late Payment
4-14-6: Payment
4-14-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
4-14-8: Audit Procedure
4-14-9: Decisions Of The Local Tax Administrator
4-14-10: Petition For Appeal Hearing
4-14-11: Appeal Hearing
4-14-12: Interest And Penalties
4-14-13: Abatement
4-14-14: Installment Agreement
4-14-15: Limitations
4-14-16: Voluntary Disclosure
4-14-17: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
4-14-18: Internal Review Procedure
4-14-19: Application
4-14-20: Severability
4-14-21: Effective Date
4-14-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 00-55, 12-21-2000)
4-14-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this article shall apply to the village's procedures in
connection with all of the village's locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 00-55, 12-21-2000)
4-14-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act".
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village's president and board of trustees.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: Refers to the village treasurer, who is charged with
the administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered
taxes, including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized
by the local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead.
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of
this article to give it full effect. The exercise of such authority by the
local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this article and the
act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the village other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of Hampshire, Illinois. (Ord. 00-55, 12-21-2000)
4-14-4: NOTICE:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 00-55, 12-21-2000)
4-14-5: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date, or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village, with adequate
postage prepaid. (Ord. 00-55, 12-21-2000)
4-14-6: PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   A.   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
   B.   Second to any interest due for the applicable period; and
   C.   Third to any penalty for the applicable period. (Ord. 00-55, 12-21-
2000)
4-14-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   In the event that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared
void, invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
village shall have no obligation to refund or credit any tax or taxes which
were voluntarily paid by the taxpayer without written protest at the time of
payment. Provided, however, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid any tax
voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to protest
the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under
duress.
   B.   No claim for credit or refund shall be made by a taxpayer more than
four (4) years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
   C.   To claim a refund or credit, the taxpayer shall submit to the local tax
administrator in writing a claim for credit or refund together with a statement
specifying:
      1.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to the
claim;
      2.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax subject
to the claim;
      3.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
      4.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or revised
tax return, in connection with the claim; and
      5.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
   D.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
      1.   Grant the claim; or
      2.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as to
the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
   E.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in part, a
claim for refund or credit, the amount of the refund or credit shall bear
interest at the rate of seven and a half percent (7.5%) per annum, based on a
year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed from
the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or the
grant of a credit. (Ord. 00-55, 12-21-2000)
4-14-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
The local tax administrator may require an audit of any taxpayer, subject to
the following procedures:
   A.   Any request for proposed audit shall comply with the notice
requirements of this article.
   B.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The locally imposed or administered tax to be audited;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   C.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours.
   D.   The taxpayer may, by written notice to the local tax administrator,
request an extension of the date and time for the audit prescribed in the
initial notice to a mutually agreeable date not more than thirty (30) days
after the date of the initial notice. Provided, however, nothing in this
section shall preclude the parties involved from setting any mutually
convenient date for the audit.
   E.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   F.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the local
tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the tax
administrator's determination, in his sole discretion, of the best estimate of
the taxpayer's tax liability.
   G.   Written notice of the result of the audit shall be given to the
taxpayer within thirty (30) days of the village's determination of same.
   H.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 00-55, 12-21-2000)
4-14-9: DECISIONS OF THE LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   The local tax administrator shall promptly provide written notice to a
taxpayer of any decision which the local tax administrator is empowered or
authorized to make regarding any locally imposed or administered tax,
including, but not limited to, issuance of a protestable notice of tax due; a
bill; the denial or other determination of a claim; or an audit. Such notice
shall include the following information:
      1.   The basis for the underlying decision;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability resulting from the decision;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the decision; and
      4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process. (Ord. 00-55, 12-21-2000)
4-14-10: PETITION FOR APPEAL HEARING:
   A.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax administrator
of a decision which the local tax administrator is empowered or authorized to
make regarding any locally imposed or administered tax may file with the local
tax administrator a written petition for appeal hearing. The petition for
appeal hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within forty five
(45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment; and must set forth the reason or reasons of the protest of or
objection to the decision.
   B.   If a timely petition is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix
the time and place for hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer.
The hearing shall be scheduled for a date within thirty (30) days of receipt of
the written petition, unless the taxpayer requests and the local tax
administrator agrees to a later date.
   C.   If such a petition is not filed within the forty five (45) day period,
the decision of the local tax administrator shall become final without further
notice.
   D.   Provided the contested tax liability together with any interest accrued
as of the due date of the tax has been paid by the taxpayer, and upon a showing
of good cause by the taxpayer, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend
the time for filing a petition for appeal hearing. Provided, in no event shall
the time for filing a petition for appeal hearing be reopened or extended for
more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five (45) day
period. (Ord. 00-55, 12-21-2000)
4-14-11: APPEAL HEARING:
   A.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely petition for
appeal, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing thereon.
   B.   No continuance of the hearing date shall be granted except in cases
where a continuance is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the
taxpayer. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any
continuance granted shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
   C.   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall hear
testimony and accept relevant evidence. The strict rules of evidence applicable
to judicial proceedings shall not apply at the hearing.
   D.   At or after the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator
shall make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at
the hearing, and shall serve a copy of the decision on the taxpayer in accord
with the notice provisions of this article. (Ord. 00-55, 12-21-2000)
4-14-12: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   The amount of interest to be assessed on a late payment, underpayment,
or nonpayment of any tax shall be nine percent (9%) per annum, based on a year
of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed, unless
otherwise specifically provided in the ordinance, law or regulations governing
the imposition of such tax.
   B.   If a tax return is not filed within the time and in the manner provided
by the law, ordinance or regulations governing the imposition of such tax, and
unless otherwise provided by such law, ordinance or regulations, a late filing
penalty equal to five percent (5%), and a late payment penalty equal to five
percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on the applicable
return, shall be imposed against the taxpayer; and a failure to file penalty
shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax due on
the applicable return, if said return is not filed when due or prior to the
time the village has issued a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax
liability. (Ord. 00-55, 12-21-2000)
4-14-13: ABATEMENT:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 00-55, 12-21-2000)
4-14-14: INSTALLMENT AGREEMENT:
The village may enter into an installment agreement with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes due. The local tax administrator may terminate any installment
agreement so entered if a delinquency or default shall occur.
   A.   Upon written notice by the local tax administrator that any payment due
under the terms of such agreement is at least thirty (30) days delinquent, or
that the taxpayer is otherwise in default regarding any term or condition of
such agreement, the taxpayer shall be allowed a period of fourteen (14)
business days to cure the delinquency or default.
   B.   If the taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency or default within the
fourteen (14) day period, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer; provided, the taxpayer and the local tax
administrator may by agreement made within the fourteen (14) day period make a
modification to the installment agreement to otherwise provide for remedy of
the delinquency or default. (Ord. 00-55, 12-21-2000)
4-14-15: LIMITATIONS:
   A.   No notice of any tax due and owing may be issued by the village more
than four (4) years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for
the applicable period was due, or after the end of the calendar year in which
the return was actually filed, whichever occurs later.
   B.   If any tax return is not filed, or if, during any four (4) year period
in which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the period of limitations shall be six (6) years after the end of the calendar
year in which the return for the applicable period was due or the end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was actually filed.
   C.   No period of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 00-55, 12-21-2000)
4-14-16: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, determination or
assessment from the local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an
application with the local tax administrator to voluntarily disclose the tax
due.
   A.   A taxpayer filing an application for voluntary disclosure must pay the
amount of tax due, together with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for
all periods prior to the filing of the application, but not more than four (4)
years before the date of filing the application. Such payment shall be made by
no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the voluntary disclosure
application or such other date as may be agreed to by the local tax
administrator.
   B.   A taxpayer filing a valid application for voluntary disclosure shall
not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period
before the date the application was filed. However, if the local tax
administrator determines that the taxpayer has in its application incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
amount of underpaid tax together with applicable interest on the underpaid tax.
Provided, if the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. Any and all amounts
owed as a result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under
this section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination
of such amount by the local tax administrator, and the exhaustion of all
appeals from such determination, or by such other date as may be agreed to by
the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 00-55, 12-21-2000)
4-14-17: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Any ordinance establishing a locally administered tax enacted after the date of
this article shall be published in accord with the requirements for publication
of ordinances otherwise prescribed in the Illinois municipal code. Copies of
any and all ordinances imposing or providing for local administration of a tax
shall be made available to the public upon request at the village clerk's
office, in accord with the Illinois freedom of information act. (Ord. 00-55,
12-21-2000)
4-14-18: INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure to
review notice of lien and liens filed or recorded by the village against any
taxpayer for unpaid taxes.
   A.   Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that any such
notice of lien or lien is valid, the lien shall remain in full force and
effect.
   B.   Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that any such
notice of lien or lien is improper or invalid, the local tax administrator
shall:
      1.   Timely remove the lien or notice of lien at the village's expense;
      2.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
      3.   Correct any public disclosure of the lien or notice of lien. (Ord.
00-55, 12-21-2000)
4-14-19: APPLICATION:
This article shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the village's tax ordinances. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this
article, to the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this article, this article shall be controlling. (Ord. 00-55,
12-21-2000)
4-14-20: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, paragraph or provision of this article shall be held by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be void, invalid or unenforceable for any reason,
such holding shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this article.
(Ord. 00-55, 12-21-2000)
4-14-21: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall be in full force and effect, after passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form, as required by law. (Ord. 00-55, 12-21-2000)
ARTICLE XV
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-15-1: Definitions
4-15-2: Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
4-15-3: Location
4-15-4: Site Plan Review Required
4-15-5: Exterior Display
4-15-6: License Required
4-15-7: Issuance Of License
4-15-8: Inspection
4-15-9: License Administration
4-15-10: Adult Cabarets; Restrictions
4-15-11: Video Viewing Booths; Restrictions
4-15-12: Hours Of Operation
4-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
ADULT ARCADE: An establishment to which the public or its members are permitted
or invited to: a) view or participate in live performances characterized by the
exposure of "specified anatomical areas", or by "specified sexual activities"
or b) view still or moving images distinguished or characterized by the
depicting or describing of "specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual
activities", all through the use of coin operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled devices to display the live
performance or the images, to five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one
time.
ADULT BOOK OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: An establishment having as a substantial or
significant portion of its stock in trade for sale, rent, lease, inspection or
viewing, books, magazines and periodicals, films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions, all of which are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on material depicting,
describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas" unless it is demonstrated that either:
   A.   Revenue from the sale, lease, inspection, viewing or rental of the
matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas" comprises no more than fifty percent (50%) of the
gross revenue from the sale and/or rental of all goods at the establishment, or
   B.   The matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" comprises no more than thirty five
percent (35%) of the items displayed in the establishment as stock in trade.
ADULT CABARET: A public or private nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar
commercial establishment which regularly features either: a) persons appearing
in a state of nudity or partial nudity, b) live performances distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on material depicting, describing or relating
to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" or c) films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on material
depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT: A business having as its substantial or
significant business purpose the offering to the public or its members a
product or service including, but not limited to, entertainment, intended to
provide sexual stimulation or sexual gratification, and which product or
service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas", including, but not limited to, the following uses:
   A.   Adult arcade.
   B.   Adult book or adult video store.
   C.   Adult cabaret.
   D.   Adult merchandise retailer.
   E.   Adult motion picture theater.
   F.   Adult minimotion picture theater.
The term "adult entertainment establishment" shall not be construed to include:
a) any business operated by or employing licensed psychologists, licensed
physical therapists, licensed athletic trainers, licensed cosmetologists, or
licensed barbers performing functions authorized under the licenses held, b)
any business operated by or employing licensed physicians or licensed healing
arts, or c) any retail establishment whose primary business is the offering of
wearing apparel for sale to its customers.
ADULT MERCHANDISE RETAILER: A retail establishment deriving more than fifty
percent (50%) of its gross revenue from the sale of merchandise designed or
marketed for use in conjunction with "specified sexual activities".
ADULT MINIMOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building, or an area within a
building, having a capacity for less than fifty (50) persons, and used
regularly and routinely for presenting motion picture films, videocassettes,
cable television, and/or any such visual media, all of which are distinguished
or characterized by their emphasis on material depicting, describing or
relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" to
its patrons.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building, or an area within a
building, having a capacity of fifty (50) or more persons, and used regularly
and routinely for presenting motion picture films, videocassettes, cable
television, and/or any such visual media, all of which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on material depicting, describing or relating
to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" to its
patrons.
EMPLOYEE: Employees, independent contractors or any other persons who are
retained by the licensee or subject to dismissal from working at the licensed
premises.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic region, buttocks, and female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola; human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state,
even if opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: For the purpose of this article means:
   A.   Any of the following offenses: prostitution or promotion of
prostitution; dissemination of obscenity; sale, distribution or display of
harmful material to a minor; sexual performance by a minor; possession or
distribution of child pornography; public lewdness; indecent exposure;
indecency with a child; engaged in organized criminal activity; sexual assault;
molestation of a child; criminal gambling; delivery of cannabis or controlled
substance; or any similar offenses to those described above under the criminal
or penal code of other states or countries; and
   B.   For which: 1) less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction, entry of an order of court supervision or the date of release from
confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a misdemeanor offense; or 2) less than five (5) years have
elapsed since the date of conviction, entry of an order of court supervision or
the date of release from confinement for conviction, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is a felony offense; or 3) less than five (5) years
have elapsed since the date of the last conviction, entry of an order of court
supervision or the date of release from confinement from the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two (2) or more
misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurred within any
twenty four (24) month period.
   C.   The fact that a conviction or other order is being appealed shall have
no effect on the disqualification of the applicant.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Simulated or actual: a) showing of human genitals
in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal, b) acts of masturbation, sexual
intercourse, sodomy, bestiality, necrophilia, sadomasochistic abuse, fellatio
or cunnilingus, c) fondling or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breasts. (Ord. 02-10, 5-16-2002)
4-15-2: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED:
No liquor license shall be issued and no liquor shall be sold or consumed on
the premises of any adult entertainment establishment. (Ord. 02-10, 5-16-2002)
4-15-3: LOCATION:
Adult entertainment establishments are permitted in a M-2 general industrial
zoning district, as delineated in accordance with subsection 6-9-3B of this
code. (Ord. 02-10, 5-16-2002)
4-15-4: SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED:
   A.   Prior to the issuance of any permit for the construction or occupancy
of an adult entertainment establishment, the applicant for a permit must first
proceed through the site plan review procedure set forth in chapter 7,
"Subdivision Regulations", of this code.
      1.   A site plan for an adult entertainment establishment shall be
reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission within sixty (60) days after it
is filed by the applicant for a permit; and the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall forward to the village board of trustees its recommendation for approval,
approval with conditions, or disapproval of the site plan.
      2.   The village board shall approve, approve with conditions, or
disapprove the site plan within sixty (60) days of its receipt of such
recommendation.
      3.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend, and the village
board of trustees may specify, such conditions on the development and/or
operation of the adult entertainment establishment related to the site plan,
floor plan, construction materials, lighting, parking and traffic circulation,
ingress and egress, landscaping and screening, and signage, as may in its
respective discretion be advisable or necessary for the protection of the
public interest and to secure compliance with the standards and requirements of
this code. (Ord. 02-10, 5-16-2002; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
4-15-5: EXTERIOR DISPLAY:
No adult entertainment establishment shall be conducted in any manner that
permits the observation of any material depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas from any public way
or from any property not licensed as an adult entertainment establishment. This
prohibition of this section shall apply to any display, decoration, sign, door,
window or other opening. (Ord. 02-10, 5-16-2002)
4-15-6: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult entertainment
establishment without a valid adult entertainment establishment license issued
by the village clerk.
   B.   An application for a license shall be made on a form provided by the
village.
   C.   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
article. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as is deemed necessary by the village to
determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications established in this
article.
   D.   The application shall be submitted and signed by:
      1.   If the applicant will operate an adult entertainment establishment
is an individual, the individual shall sign the application.
      2.   If the applicant will operate an adult entertainment establishment
as a corporation, partnership, or other entity, each individual who has a seven
and one-half percent (7.5%) or greater, or a controlling or management interest
in the business, shall sign the application for a license. Each such person
signing such application must be qualified, and each shall be considered a
licensee if the license is granted.
   E.   The completed application for an adult entertainment establishment
business license shall contain the following information:
      1.   If the applicant is an individual, the individual shall state his/
her legal name and any aliases and submit proof that he/she is eighteen (18)
years of age;
      2.   If the applicant is a partnership, the partnership shall state its
complete name and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general
or limited, and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
      3.   If the applicant is a corporation, the corporation shall state its
complete name, the date of incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in
good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and
capacity of all officers, directors and principal shareholders, and the name
and address of the registered corporate agent.
      4.   If the applicant intends to operate the adult entertainment
establishment under a name other than that of the applicant, he/she must state:
a) the business' fictitious name and b) submit any required registration
documents.
      5.   Whether the applicant or any employee, initial or subsequent, has
been convicted of any "specified criminal activity" as defined in this article,
and if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place and
jurisdiction of each.
      6.   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this article
or similar ordinances from another jurisdiction denied, suspended or revoked,
including the name and location of the business for which the license was
denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation. If the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an officer,
director or principal stockholder of a corporation that is or was licensed
under this article or similar ordinance in another jurisdiction and a license
has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and
location of the business for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked
as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation.
      7.   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this article or
other similar ordinance from another city or county and if so the names and
locations of such other licensed businesses.
      8.   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises
including a statement of total floor area occupied by the business. This sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises.
      9.   Every application for an adult entertainment establishment license
(whether for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable application and investigation fee, and, if
approved, a license fee, both as specified by village council resolution from
time to time adopted. (Ord. 02-10, 5-16-2002)
4-15-7: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days after receipt of a completed adult
entertainment establishment license application, the village treasurer shall
approve or deny the issuance of a license to an applicant. The village
treasurer shall approve the issuance of a license unless it determines by a
preponderance of the evidence any one or more of the following:
      1.   The applicant and any employee, initial or subsequent, is under
eighteen (18) years of age;
      2.   The applicant is overdue in payment to the village for any tax, fee,
fine, or penalty assessed against or imposed upon the applicant in relation to
this or any other business or individual undertaking in the village;
      3.   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for the issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form;
      4.   The applicant has been denied a license by the village to operate an
adult entertainment establishment within the preceding twelve (12) months or
whose license to operate an adult entertainment establishment has been revoked
within the preceding twelve (12) months;
      5.   The applicant or any employee, initial or subsequent, has been
convicted of a "specified criminal activity" defined in this article;
      6.   The premises to be used for the adult entertainment establishment
has not been approved by the village building inspector because it is not in
compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
      7.   The license fee has not been paid;
      8.   The applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this article.
   B.   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address of the
adult entertainment establishment business. The license shall be posted in a
conspicuous space at or near the entrance to the business so that it may be
easily read at any time.
   C.   No adult entertainment establishment license shall be issued unless the
premises at which the adult entertainment establishment will operate is in
conformance with any and all restrictions set forth in chapter 6, "Zoning", of
this code. (Ord. 02-10, 5-16-2002)
4-15-8: INSPECTION:
   A.   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the village
police department, fire protection district, building department, public works
department, or any other village department or agency to inspect the premises
of the adult entertainment establishment for the purpose of ensuring compliance
with the law.
   B.   A person who operates an adult entertainment establishment or his agent
or employee violates this article if he/she refuses to permit such lawful
inspection of the premises at any time it is occupied or open for business.
(Ord. 02-10, 5-16-2002)
4-15-9: LICENSE ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Expiration Of License:
      1.   Each license shall expire on January 1 after it was issued and may
be renewed only by making application for renewal. Application for renewal
shall be filed with the village clerk at least thirty (30) days before the
expiration date. Failure to timely file an application for renewal shall be
cause to deny renewal, and will cause the existing license to terminate.
      2.   If the village denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not
be issued a new license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the village finds that the basis for denial of the license has been
corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license. (Ord. 02-10, 5-16-
2002)
   B.   Suspension:
      1.   The village may suspend a license for a period not to exceed thirty
(30) days if, after a hearing pursuant to subsection F of this section, it
determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee:
         a.   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this
article;
         b.   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult entertainment
establishment business premises as authorized by this article; or
         c.   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the adult
entertainment establishment business premises, including any violation of the
Illinois video gaming act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/5-1-1 et seq., as
now in effect or as hereafter amended. (Ord. 12-19, 7-19-2012)
      2.   If the licensee or an employee of the licensee has been found guilty
in a court of law or under the village's hearing procedures, of a violation of
this article, no hearing shall be necessary prior to suspension of the license.
   C.   Revocation:
      1.   The village shall revoke a license without a hearing otherwise
required under subsection F of this section, if it is determined that a
violation of subsection B of this section has occurred and the license has been
suspended within the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the date of
the alleged violation; or if the licensee has been convicted of any specified
criminal activity.
      2.   The village shall revoke a license if it determines, after a hearing
pursuant to subsection F of this section, that a licensee or an employee of a
licensee:
         a.   Gave false or misleading information in the material submitted
during the application process;
         b.   Has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of alcohol or
controlled substances on the premises;
         c.   Has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
         d.   Knowingly operated the adult entertainment establishment during a
period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
         e.   Has knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral
copulation, masturbation or other sex act to occur in or on the licensed
premises;
         f.   Is delinquent in payment to the village, county or state for any
taxes or fees past due;
         g.   Has knowingly or intentionally facilitated another in the
commission of the offense of public indecency.
      3.   If the village revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for
one year and the licensee shall not be issued an adult entertainment
establishment business license for one year from the date the revocation became
effective.
      4.   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or a revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such action in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   D.   Transfer Of License: A licensee shall not transfer his/her license to
another nor shall a licensee operate an adult entertainment establishment
business under the authority of a license at any place other than the address
on the license.
   E.   Business Records: A licensee shall by March 15 of each year file a
verified report with the village clerk showing the licensee's gross receipts
and amounts paid to employees during the preceding calendar year. In addition,
a licensee shall maintain and retain for a period of two (2) years the names,
addresses and ages of all persons employed, including independent contractors,
by the licensee.
   F.   Hearing: Upon a written allegation that licensee has violated any
provision of this article, the licensee shall immediately suspend all business
pending a hearing on said allegations conducted by the village board of
trustees, upon seven (7) days prior notice to the licensee; provided, however,
that no hearing shall occur later than fifteen (15) days from the date of
suspension of business operations. (Ord. 02-10, 5-16-2002)
4-15-10: ADULT CABARETS; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   All dancing and other performances shall occur on a stage intended for
that purpose which is raised at least two feet (2') from the level of the
floor. No dancing or other performances shall occur closer than ten feet (10')
to any patron. In addition, no performer shall fondle, caress or otherwise
touch any patron and no patron shall fondle, caress or otherwise touch any
performer.
   B.   No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any performer and
no performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron. Gratuities may
be indirectly given to performers by placing the gratuity on the stage. (Ord.
02-10, 5-16-2002)
4-15-11: VIDEO VIEWING BOOTHS; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No booths, stalls or partitioned portions of a room or individual rooms
used for the viewing of motion pictures or other forms of entertainment shall
have doors, curtains or portal partitions, but all such booths, stalls or
partitioned portions or a room or individual rooms so used shall have at least
one side open to an adjacent public room so that the area inside is visible to
persons in the adjacent public room.
   B.   All such described areas shall be lighted in such a manner that the
persons in the areas used for viewing motion pictures or other forms of
entertainment are visible from the adjacent public rooms, but such lighting
shall not be of such intensity as to prevent viewing of the motion pictures or
other offered entertainment. (Ord. 02-10, 5-16-2002)
4-15-12: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No adult entertainment establishment shall be open to the public prior to ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M., or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M., any day of the week.
(Ord. 02-10, 5-16-2002)
ARTICLE XVI
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
4-16-1: Definitions
4-16-2: Imposition Of Tax
4-16-3: Rate Of Tax
4-16-4: Allocation Of Tax
4-16-5: Repeal Of Tax
4-16-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, any terms and words shall have the definitions
assigned to them by state law, 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 636/5-7. (Ord. 04-
19, 6-17-2004)
4-16-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
   A.   There is hereby imposed a tax upon the following:
      1.   Upon the act or privilege of originating in the village, or
receiving in the village, intrastate telecommunications by a person.
      2.   Upon the act or privilege of originating in the village, or
receiving in the village, interstate telecommunications by a person.
   B.   However, such tax is not imposed on the act or privilege to the extent
such act or privilege may not, under the constitution and statutes of the
United States, be made the subject of taxation by municipalities in this state.
(Ord. 04-19, 6-17-2004)
   C.   To prevent actual multimunicipal taxation of the act of privilege that
is subject to taxation under this article, any taxpayer, upon proof that the
taxpayer has paid a tax in another municipality on such event, shall be allowed
a credit against any tax imposed by this article to the extent of the amount of
such tax properly due and paid in the municipality which was not previously
allowed as a credit against any other municipal tax. (Ord. 08-13, 4-3-2008)
4-16-3: RATE OF TAX:
   A.   The tax authorized by this article is hereby established at a rate of
six percent (6%) of the gross charge for telecommunications purchased at
retail. (Ord. 09-45, 12-3-2009)
   B.   The village may from time to time change the rate of tax imposed
hereunder, in accordance with the requirements of state law. (Ord. 04-19, 6-17-
2004)
4-16-4: ALLOCATION OF TAX:
The proceeds of this tax shall be paid into the general fund of the village, to
be utilized for such purpose or purposes within said fund as shall be
designated from time to time by the corporate authorities. (Ord. 04-19, 6-17-
2004)
4-16-5: REPEAL OF TAX:
In all other respects, the imposition, amendment, or repeal of the simplified
municipal telecommunications tax in the village shall be subject to the
requirements of state law. (Ord. 04-19, 6-17-2004)
ARTICLE XVII
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
SECTION:
4-17-1: Definitions
4-17-2: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
4-17-3: Applicable Accounting Principles
4-17-4: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
4-17-5: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
4-17-6: Late Fees/Payments
4-17-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in- kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village, including any of the following:
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges.
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
      7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
      8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this
definition.
      9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
      10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
   B.   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
      1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
      2.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
      3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
      4.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
      5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
      6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
      7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401; and does not include any person or entity which is otherwise
subject to a cable franchise agreement entered into pursuant to article I,
"Cable Communications", of this chapter.
SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this article, and pursuant to state
law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801, by the holder to a village for
the service areas within its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet. (Ord. 07-53, 11-1-2007)
4-17-2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable service or video
service in the village.
   B.   The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be five percent (5%) of the
holder's gross revenues.
   C.   The holder shall notify the village at least ten (10) days prior to the
date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or video service in the
village.
   D.   The holder shall be liable for and shall pay the service provider fee
to the village commencing on the first day of the month that shall occur after
the village has first by mail, postage prepaid, forwarded to the holder a copy
of the ordinance codified herein adopting these regulations, and thirty (30)
days shall have elapsed after such mailing. Such notice of adoption shall be
mailed to holder at the address listed on the notice sent by holder to the
village pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401(b)(6).
   E.   The payment of the service provider fee shall be due and payable on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date the mailing is postmarked.
Each payment shall include a statement from the holder explaining the basis for
calculation of the fee.
   F.   The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable service or
video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement with the
village in which a fee is paid.
   G.   An incumbent cable operator that elects to terminate an existing
agreement pursuant to the provisions of 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-301
(c) with credit for prepaid franchise fees under such agreement may deduct the
amount of such credit from the fees the operator shall owe under this section.
(Ord. 07-53, 11-1-2007)
4-17-3: APPLICABLE ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations made or required to be made under this
article shall be made pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles.
(Ord. 07-53, 11-1-2007)
4-17-4: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
   A.   Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to exempt a holder
from any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax
that is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with
respect to cable service or video service.
   B.   A state issued authorization shall not affect any requirement of the
holder with respect to payment of the village's simplified municipal
telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to any telephone service
provided by the holder.
   C.   A state issued authorization shall not affect any requirement of the
holder with respect to payment of any fee, tax, or charge imposed by the
village for 911 or E-911 purposes. (Ord. 07-53, 11-1-2007)
4-17-5: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   A.   The holder shall comply with any and all requirements the village
imposes on other cable service or video service providers in its jurisdiction
for audit of the holder's books and records and for recomputation of any
amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the village.
      1.   The village shall notify the holder of the requirements for such
audit of its books and records, provided, the requirements shall be the same as
are imposed on other cable service or video service providers; and provided
further, if all local franchises between the village and cable operator are
terminated, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq.
      2.   The village's acceptance of any amount remitted by holder shall not
be construed as an agreement, accord, or acquiescence that such amount is
correct or final.
   B.   Any additional amount due from any holder after completion and
acceptance of any audit due under this section shall be paid in full within
thirty (30) days after the village's submission of an invoice to holder for the
sum due. (Ord. 07-53, 11-1-2007)
4-17-6: LATE FEES/PAYMENTS:
Any fee due or any payment which is past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this municipality pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill
of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord. 07-53, 11-1-
2007)
ARTICLE XVIII
CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-18-1: Customer Service And Privacy Protection
4-18-2: Enforcement
4-18-3: Penalties
4-18-4: Customer Credits
4-18-1: CUSTOMER SERVICE AND PRIVACY PROTECTION:
   A.   The regulations set out in the cable and video customer protection law,
220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501 (the "law") are hereby adopted by
reference and made applicable to any and all cable or video providers offering
services within the village's boundaries.
   B.   Any amendment to the law that becomes effective after the effective
date of this article shall also be incorporated into this article by reference
and shall be applicable to any and all cable or video providers offering
services within the village's boundaries, according to its terms; provided,
however, that any amendment to the law that makes its provisions optional for
adoption by the village shall not be incorporated into this article without
formal action by the corporate authorities of the village. (Ord. 07-54, 11-8-
2007)
4-18-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The village shall enforce all of the customer service and privacy protection
standards of the law with respect to complaints received from residents within
the village. (Ord. 07-54, 11-8-2007)
4-18-3: PENALTIES:
Any person or entity which violates any provision of this article shall be
fined in an amount not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
day of the violation, provided the maximum fine to be assessed for any such
violation per customer shall not exceed twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00).
   A.   Any material breach of the regulations shall be considered to be a
violation under this article.
   B.   For purposes of this article, "material breach" shall mean any
substantial failure of a cable or video provider to comply with service quality
and other standards specified in any provision of the law, and shall be deemed
to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by the cable
or video service provider after expiration of the thirty (30) day period
described in the notice required under this section, irrespective of the number
of customers involved.
   C.   The village shall deliver to the cable or video provider written notice
of any alleged violation(s) and shall allow such provider at least thirty (30)
days from the date of such notice to remedy the specified violation(s), before
proceeding with enforcement and/or penalty. (Ord. 07-54, 11-8-2007)
4-18-4: CUSTOMER CREDITS:
In addition to any penalty assessed under section
4-18-3 of this article, in the event of any violation, the service provider
shall issue a credit to the customer, in accordance with the provisions of the
law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501(s). Any such credits shall be
applied on the statement issued to the customer in accordance with the law. In
all cases, the cable or video provider shall bear responsibility for providing
the credits and no customer is under any obligation to request the credit.
(Ord. 07-54, 11-8-2007)
ARTICLE XIX
CARNIVALS
SECTION:
4-19-1: Definitions
4-19-2: Prohibited Conduct
4-19-3: License Required
4-19-4: Insurance Requirements
4-19-5: Village Held Harmless
4-19-6: Length And Hours Of Operation
4-19-7: Right Of Inspection By Village
4-19-8: Emergency Telephone Numbers Posted
4-19-9: Fire Resistant Material
4-19-10: License Fees
4-19-11: Sanitary Facilities
4-19-1: DEFINITIONS:
CARNIVAL: An enterprise which offers amusement and entertainment to the public
by means of shows, acts, games, vending devices or amusement devices, or any
aggregation of such, whether conducted under one or more managements or
independently, which are temporarily set up or conducted in a public place or
upon any private premises accessible to the public, with or without admission
fee, and which from the nature of the aggregation attracts attendance and
causes intermingling of persons for amusement and entertainment. The term
"carnival" is intended to include the term "circus" within its definition.
GAME CONCESSION: Means and includes any game, vending device, or amusement
device open to the public and operated for profit in which the patron pays a
fee for participating and may receive a prize upon a later happening.
GAME OF SKILL: Means and includes a game in which the average person with a
reasonable amount of practice can be expected to improve his/her performance
and be able to complete the required task at least once out of fifty (50)
attempts. The fact that a select few by virtue of long practice and experience
can win at a game is not sufficient to designate the game as one of skill.
RAZZLE DAZZLE: Means and includes a series of games of skill or chance in which
the player pays money or other valuable consideration in return for each
opportunity to make successive attempts to obtain points by use of dice, darts,
marbles or other implements and where such points are accumulated in successive
games by the player toward a total number of points, where the total number of
points are required for the player to win a prize or valuable consideration,
and where the operator determines the total number of points needed. (Ord. 07-
15, 3-8-2007)
4-19-2: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns or operates a game
concession at a carnival to obtain money by deception from another, whether by
means of one or more hidden mechanical devices or obstructions, or by any other
means, with intent to diminish the chance of such person to win a prize.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person who uses, manufactures or sells at
a carnival within the village a mechanical device or obstruction for a game
concession at a carnival to know or have reason to know it will be used to
diminish the chance of any patron to win a prize.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or operate a game of "razzle
dazzle" at a carnival.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or operate at a carnival any
game other than a game of skill open to the public and operated for profit in
which the patron pays a fee for participating and may receive a prize upon a
later happening.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to set up or operate at a carnival
any gambling device, lottery, number or paddle wheel, number board, punchboard
or other game of chance, including any video gaming terminal, as defined in the
Illinois video gaming act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/5-1-1 et seq., as
now in effect or as hereafter amended, or any lewd, lascivious or indecent show
or attraction making an indecent exposure of the person, or suggesting lewdness
or immorality. (Ord. 12-19, 7-19-2012)
4-19-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   A license to give, conduct, produce, operate, or present a "carnival"
as herein defined shall be applied for by the owner. Application for said
license shall be in writing on a form provided by the village which shall
include the following information:
      1.   Applicant's name, address, and telephone number.
      2.   Type of ownership.
      3.   Name of business, address and telephone number if other than
applicant's name.
      4.   If business is conducted by a manager or agent, name, address, and
telephone number of such manager or agent.
      5.   Location of where carnival will be operated.
      6.   Starting and closing dates of carnival operation.
      7.   List of rides, amusement stands, food stands, entertainment shows,
and any other attractions of any kind.
      8.   Written proof of compliance with the state of Illinois carnival and
amusement rides safety act.
      9.   Amount of insurance, type, expiration date, and name of insurance
carrier.
      10.   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the village
president.
   B.   The application shall also include the name, address and social
security number of all employees who will work in setting up, running,
operating, or disassembling the carnival at its location in the village. Such
list of employees shall be subject to review and background check by the
village police department. The applicant shall certify that all listed persons
are eligible to work in a public park or other public space in the village as
defined by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-9.4. (Ord. 07-15, 3-8-2007)
4-19-4: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Prior to a license being issued to operate a carnival the applicant shall
submit to the village of Hampshire a certificate of public liability insurance
showing as named insureds the owner(s) of the carnival as well as those persons
owning each ride, amusement, entertainment, game concession, food stand,
amusement stand, performance or exhibition, or other attraction, which
collectively make up the carnival, and further naming the village of Hampshire
as an additional insured. Such insurance shall cover bodily injury, death and
property damage, insuring against liability that may arise from the operation
or maintenance of said carnival or any part thereof. The amount of such
insurance shall be not less than two million dollars ($2,000,000.00), except
that the amount shall not be less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) in
the case of an owner of five (5) or less amusement rides or amusement
attractions as defined in the Illinois carnival and amusement rides safety act,
and in the case of an owner of any other amusements, entertainments,
performances, exhibitions, rides or attractions not subject to the Illinois
carnival and amusement rides safety act. (Ord. 07-15, 3-8-2007)
4-19-5: VILLAGE HELD HARMLESS:
The applicant for a license for a carnival shall provide the village with an
indemnification agreement in writing holding the village harmless from any and
all claims, liabilities and losses including reasonable attorney fees rising
out of or in connection with granting a license to the applicant. (Ord. 07-15,
3-8-2007)
4-19-6: LENGTH AND HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Any carnival licensed to operate in the village of Hampshire shall not
remain in operation at any one location for a period not to exceed twelve (12)
consecutive days, nor shall any carnival be located at any one location more
than three (3) times during one calendar year.
   B.   Carnivals shall not open for business prior to ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M., and shall not remain open later than eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on the
same day or curfew time as specified in chapter 2, article X of this code,
whichever is earlier. (Ord. 07-15, 3-8-2007)
4-19-7: RIGHT OF INSPECTION BY VILLAGE:
   A.   Police officers, village health officer, zoning administrator, building
inspector, and electrical inspector, and fire district firefighters or
inspectors, and their subordinates, shall in connection with inspections have
free access to the grounds of any carnival and all employees, booths, shows and
concessions on such grounds at all times. Any costs incurred by the village in
making any such inspection(s) shall be promptly reimbursed to the village by
the carnival operator, upon written demand of the village.
   B.   The owner or his/her appointed manager shall keep records as specified
below open to inspection during the hours the carnival is open for business.
These records shall be available at the site of the carnival operation. The
records shall be updated daily. The records shall upon request be shown to
those persons listed in subsection A of this section. The records shall
contain:
      1.   The name and address of the owner and operator of each ride, game
concession, amusement stand, food stand, entertainment show, and other
attraction.
      2.   The name and address of each employee and independent contractor,
and at which ride or concession he or she is employed.
      3.   The daily gross receipts of each attraction listed in subsection B1
of this section; the amount of prize merchandise dispensed to the players of
each game concession; and the percentage of receipts that is paid to the
carnival owner.
      4.   The recording not less than daily by the owner or his or her
appointed representative of his or her personal inspection of each ride for
safety, and each game concession, food stand, amusement device, entertainment
show, and other attraction, that it complies with the regulations of this
article.
      5.   The name, address, age, and extent of injuries, if known, of any
person, including employees, injured at the carnival site.
   C.   All rules pertaining to playing of any games and the price to
participate must be posted conspicuously at the location of each game. The fee
to participate shall be collected by the operator and the proper change, if any
is due, returned to the player prior to the start of the game.
   D.   The use of "shills" and/or any person posing as a patron is prohibited.
   E.   Games utilizing foul lines wherein the person operating the game is the
sole determiner as to whether or not a player has fouled are prohibited unless
the foul lines shall be explained to the patron before any such game starts.
   F.   Only items of merchandise that can be won by the player may be
displayed in conjunction with any game concession. A sign setting forth the
requirements for winning a prize shall be conspicuously displayed. The offering
of money as a prize or as incentive to play is prohibited.
   G.   All game concessions shall be open to inspection by those persons
listed in subsection A of this section during the hours the carnival is open to
the public. (Ord. 07-15, 3-8-2007)
4-19-8: EMERGENCY TELEPHONE NUMBERS POSTED:
There shall be posted at least four (4) conspicuous locations on the grounds
the telephone numbers of the police department, fire department, ambulance
service and village health officer. In addition, if a first aid station is
available on or near the grounds, directions to the station will be posted with
the emergency telephone numbers. (Ord. 07-15, 3-8-2007)
4-19-9: FIRE RESISTANT MATERIAL:
All nonmetallic material used in conjunction with any ride or concession such
as, but not limited to, canvas components, decorative materials, streamers, and
related material shall be of approved fire resistant material and shall be
subject to review and approval by the Hampshire township fire protection
district prior to issuance of a license hereunder. (Ord. 07-15, 3-8-2007)
4-19-10: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   The following fees shall be paid prior to issuance of a license
hereunder:
      1.   Thirty dollars ($30.00) per amusement ride or amusement attraction,
as defined in the Illinois carnival and amusement rides safety act;
      2.   Twenty dollars ($20.00) per amusement stand;
      3.   Twenty dollars ($20.00) per game concession;
      4.   Twenty dollars ($20.00) per entertainment show, inside or outside;
      5.   Twenty dollars ($20.00) per food stand;
      6.   Twenty dollars ($20.00) for any other attractions not necessarily
falling within the above listed.
   B.   The following organizations are exempt from fees under this section:
      1.   Elementary, junior high and high schools located within the village;
      2.   Governmental units, boards, commissions, and bodies duly organized
under the laws of the village, state of Illinois and/or United States Of
America. (Ord. 07-15, 3-8-2007)
4-19-11: SANITARY FACILITIES:
There shall be provided on the premises of the carnival site a reasonable
number of toilet facilities, and in any case, not less than four (4) toilets (2
for females and 2 for males). When portable toilets are utilized, one toilet
for females, and one toilet for males, shall be placed at opposite ends of the
carnival site. The toilets shall be clearly marked for female or male use. It
shall be the responsibility of the licensee of the carnival to maintain the
toilet facilities in a clean and sanitary condition at all times. (Ord. 07-15,
3-8-2007)
ARTICLE XX
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
SECTION:
4-20-1: Objective
4-20-2: Scope
4-20-3: Definitions
4-20-4: Policy
4-20-5: Program Management And Accountability
4-20-6: Responsibility
4-20-1: OBJECTIVE:
The purpose of this identity theft prevention program (article) is to protect
customers of the village of Hampshire's utility services from identity theft.
This article is intended to establish reasonable policies and procedures to
facilitate the detection, prevention and mitigation of identity theft in
connection with the opening of new covered accounts and activity on existing
covered accounts. (Ord. 08-36, 10-9-2008)
4-20-2: SCOPE:
This article applies to the creation, modification and access to identifying
information of a customer of one or more of the utilities operated by the
village (water and sewer) by any and all personnel of the village, including
management personnel. This article does not replace or repeal any previously
existing policies or programs addressing some or all of the activities that are
the subject of this article, but rather it is intended to supplement any such
existing policies and programs. (Ord. 08-36, 10-9-2008)
4-20-3: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this article, the following terms have the meanings set forth
opposite their name, unless the context clearly requires that the term be given
a different meaning:
COVERED ACCOUNT: An account that the village of Hampshire offers or maintains,
primarily for personal, family or household purposes, that involves or is
designed to permit multiple payments of transactions (16 CFR section 681.2(b)
(3)(i)). A utility account is a "covered account". The term "covered account"
also includes other accounts offered or maintained by the village for which
there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers, the village or its
customers from identity theft (16 CFR section 681.2(b)(3)(ii)).
IDENTIFYING INFORMATION: Any name or number that may be used, alone or in
conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person,
including any name, social security number, date of birth, official state or
government issued driver's license or identification number, alien registration
number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer identification number.
Additional examples of "identifying information" are set forth in 16 CFR
section 603.2(a).
IDENTITY THEFT: A fraud committed or attempted using the identifying
information of another person without authority (16 CFR sections 681.2(b)(8)
and 603.2(a)).
RED FLAG: A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the possible
existence of identity theft.
Certain terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings
given to them in the FTC's identity theft rules (16 CFR part 681) or the fair
credit reporting act of 1970 (15 USC section 1681 et seq.), as amended by the
fair and accurate credit transactions act of 2003 into law on December 4, 2003
(Public Law 108-159). (Ord. 08-36, 10-9-2008)
4-20-4: POLICY:
   A.   Administration Of This Article:
      1.   Issues to be addressed in the annual identity theft prevention
report include:
         a.   The effectiveness of the policies and procedures in addressing
the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of new covered
accounts and activity with respect to existing covered accounts.
         b.   Service provider arrangements.
         c.   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management's
response.
         d.   Recommendations for material changes to this article, if needed
for improvement.
   B.   Identity Theft Prevention Elements:
      1.   Identification Of Relevant Red Flags: The village of Hampshire has
considered the guidelines and the illustrative examples of possible red flags
from the FTC's identity theft rules and has reviewed the village's past history
with instances of identity theft, if any. The municipality hereby determines
that the following are the relevant red flags for purposes of this article
given the relative size of the village and the limited nature and scope of the
services that the village provides to its citizens:
         a.   Alerts From Reporting Agencies Or Service Providers: Alerts,
notifications, or other warnings received from consumer reporting agencies or
service providers.
            (1)   A fraud or active duty alert is included with a consumer
report or an identity verification response from a credit reporting agency.
            (2)   A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of credit
freeze in response to a request for a consumer report.
            (3)   A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of address
discrepancy, as defined in section 681.1(b) of the FTC's identity theft rules.
            (4)   A consumer report indicates a pattern of activity that is
inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or
customer, such as:
               (A)   A recent and significant increase in the volume of
inquiries;
               (B)   An unusual number of recently established credit
relationships;
               (C)   A material change in the use of credit, especially with
respect to recently established credit relationships; or
               (D)   An account that was closed for cause or identified for
abuse of account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
         b.   Suspicious Documents: The presentation of suspicious documents.
            (1)   Documents provided for identification appear to have been
altered or forged.
            (2)   The photograph or physical description on the identification
is not consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting
the identification.
            (3)   Other information on the identification is not consistent
with information provided by the person opening a new covered account or
customer presenting the identification.
            (4)   Other information on the identification is not consistent
with readily accessible information that is on file with the village, such as a
signature card or a recent check.
            (5)   An application appears to have been altered or forged, or
gives the appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.
         c.   Suspicious Personal Identifying Information: The presentation of
suspicious personal identifying information, such as a suspicious address
change.
            (1)   Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent
when compared against external information sources used by the village. For
example:
               (A)   The address does not match any address in the consumer
report or CRA ID check response; or
               (B)   The social security number (SSN) has not been issued, or
is listed on the social security administration's death master file.
            (2)   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is
not consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the SSN range and
date of birth.
            (3)   Personal identifying information provided is associated with
known fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third party sources used
by the village. For example:
               (A)   The address on an application is the same as the address
provided on a fraudulent application; or
               (B)   The phone number on an application is the same as the
number provided on a fraudulent application.
            (4)   Personal identifying information provided is of a type
commonly associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third
party sources used by the village. For example:
               (A)   The billing address on an application is fictitious, a
mail drop, or a prison; or
               (B)   The phone number is invalid, or is associated with a pager
or answering service.
               (C)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other
persons opening an account or other customers.
               (D)   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or
similar to the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually
large number of other persons opening accounts or other customers.
            (5)   The person opening the covered account or the customer fails
to provide all required personal identifying information on an application or
in response to notification that the application is incomplete.
            (6)   Personal identifying information provided is not consistent
with personal identifying information that is on file with the village.
            (7)   If the village uses challenge questions, the person opening
the covered account or the customer cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer
report.
         d.   Suspicious Activity: The unusual use of, or other suspicious
activity related to, a covered account.
            (1)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a
covered account, the village receives a request for the addition of authorized
users on the account.
            (2)   A new utility account is used in a manner commonly associated
with known patterns of fraud patterns. For example, the customer fails to make
the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent payments.
            (3)   A covered account with a stable history shows irregularities.
            (4)   A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably
lengthy period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account,
the expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors).
            (5)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as
undeliverable although usage of utility products or services continues in
connection with the customer's covered account.
            (6)   The village is notified that the customer is not receiving
paper account statements.
            (7)   The village is notified of unauthorized usage of utility
products or services in connection with a customer's covered account.
         e.   Notice Of Possible Identity Theft:
            (1)   The village is notified by a customer, a victim of identity
theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a
fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
   C.   Detection Of Red Flags:
      1.   The employees of the village of Hampshire who interact directly with
customers on a day to day basis shall have the initial responsibility for
monitoring the information and documentation provided by the customer and any
third party service provider in connection with the opening of new accounts and
the modification of or access to existing accounts and the detection of any red
flags that might arise.
      2.   Management employees shall be properly trained such that they can
recognize the relevant red flags identified in this article and exercise sound
judgment in connection with the response to any unresolved red flags that may
present themselves in connection with the opening of a new account or with
modifying or accessing of an existing account.
         a.   Management shall see to it that all employees who might be called
upon to assist a customer with the opening of a new account or with modifying
or otherwise accessing an existing account are properly trained such that they
have a working familiarity with the relevant red flags identified in this
article so as to be able to recognize any red flags that might surface in
connection with the transaction.
         b.   An employee who is not sufficiently trained to recognize the red
flags identified in this article shall not open a new account for any customer,
modify any existing account or otherwise provide any customer with access to
information in an existing account without the direct supervision and specific
approval of a management employee.
      3.   Management employees shall be responsible for making the final
decision on any such unresolved red flags.
      4.   The program administrator shall establish from time to time a
written policy setting forth the manner in which a prospective new customer may
apply for service, the information and documentation to be provided by the
prospective customer in connection with an application for a new utility
service account, the steps to be taken by the employee assisting the customer
with the application in verifying the customer's identity and the manner in
which the information and documentation provided by the customer and any third
party service provider shall be maintained. Such policy shall be generally
consistent with the spirit of the customer identification program rules (31 CFR
section 103.121) implementing section 326(a) of the USA PATRIOT act but need
not be as detailed. The program administrator shall establish from time to time
a written policy setting forth the manner in which customers with existing
accounts shall establish their identity before being allowed to make
modifications to or otherwise gain access to existing accounts.
   D.   Response To Detected Red Flags:
      1.   If the responsible employees of the village of Hampshire as set
forth in the previous subsection are unable, after making a good faith effort,
to form a reasonable belief that they know the true identity of a customer
attempting to open a new account or modify or otherwise access an existing
account based on the information and documentation provided by the customer and
any third party service provider, the village shall not open the new account or
modify or otherwise provide access to the existing account as the case may be.
      2.   Discrimination in respect to the opening of new accounts or the
modification or access to existing accounts will not be tolerated by employees
of the village and shall be grounds for immediate dismissal.
      3.   The program administrator shall establish from time to time a
written policy setting forth the steps to be taken in the event of an
unresolved red flag situation. Consideration should be given to aggravating
factors that may heighten the risk of identity theft, such as a data security
incident that results in unauthorized access to a customer's account, or a
notice that a customer has provided account information to a fraudulent
individual or website.
      4.   Appropriate responses to prevent or mitigate identity theft when a
red flag is detected include:
         a.   Monitoring a covered account for evidence of identity theft.
         b.   Contacting the customer.
         c.   Changing any passwords, security codes, or other security devices
that permit access to a covered account.
         d.   Reopening a covered account with a new account number.
         e.   Not opening a new covered account.
         f.   Closing an existing covered account.
         g.   Not attempting to collect on a covered account or not selling a
covered account to a debt collector.
         h.   Notifying law enforcement.
         i.   Determining that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances. (Ord. 08-36, 10-9-2008)
4-20-5: PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY:
   A.   Initial Risk Assessment; Covered Accounts:
      1.   Utility accounts for personal, family and household purposes are
specifically included within the definition of "covered account" in the FTC's
identity theft rules. Therefore, the village of Hampshire determines that with
respect to its residential utility accounts it offers and/or maintains covered
accounts.
      2.   The village also performed an initial risk assessment to determine
whether the utility offers or maintains any other accounts for which there are
reasonably foreseeable risks to customers or the utility from identity theft.
In making this determination the village considered: a) the methods it uses to
open its accounts, b) the methods it uses to access its accounts, and c) its
previous experience with identity theft, and it concluded that it does not
offer or maintain any such other covered accounts.
   B.   Program Updates; Risk Assessment: This article, including relevant red
flags, is to be updated as often as necessary but at least annually to reflect
changes in risks to customers from identity theft. Factors to consider in this
article update include:
      1.   An assessment of the risk factors identified above.
      2.   Any identified red flag weaknesses in associated account systems or
procedures.
      3.   Changes in methods of identity theft.
      4.   Changes in methods to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft.
      5.   Changes in business arrangements, including mergers, acquisitions,
alliances, joint ventures, and service provider arrangements.
   C.   Training And Oversight: All staff and third party service providers
performing any activity in connection with one or more covered accounts are to
be provided appropriate training and receive effective oversight to ensure that
the activity is conducted in accordance with policies and procedures designed
to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity theft.
   D.   Other Legal Requirements: Awareness of the following related legal
requirements should be maintained by the program administrator:
      1.   31 USC 5318(g) - reporting of suspicious activities,
      2.   15 USC 1681c-1(h) - identity theft prevention; fraud alerts and
active duty alerts - limitations on use of information for credit extensions,
      3.   15 USC 1681s-2 - responsibilities of furnishers of information to
consumer reporting agencies,
      4.   15 USC 1681m - requirements on use of consumer reports. (Ord. 08-36,
10-9-2008)
4-20-6: RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Implementation, administration and oversight of this article shall be
the responsibility of the program administrator. The program administrator
shall be the village administrator, or such person as may from time to time be
designated as program administrator by the village administrator.
      1.   The program administrator may but shall not be required to appoint
an internal or external committee to assist or advise in the administration of
this article.
      2.   The program administrator shall report not less often than annually
to the board of trustees regarding the operation and maintenance of this
article.
   B.   The program administrator may propose amendments to this article as
established herein, but no such amendments shall become effective unless and
until approved by the board of trustees. (Ord. 08-36, 10-9-2008)
ARTICLE XXI
BUSINESS LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-21-1: Purpose
4-21-2: Definitions
4-21-3: Registration Required
4-21-4: Application
4-21-5: Registration; Term; Expiration; Renewal
4-21-6: Registration Not Assignable
4-21-7: Registration Fee
4-21-8: Location
4-21-9: Compliance With Ordinances And Statutes
4-21-10: Enforcement
4-21-1: PURPOSE:
Each business located in the village is a basic part of and affects the
physical and economic well being of the village. The provisions of this article
are meant to provide a means whereby the village may monitor the economic
development, employment opportunities, and sources of sales taxes in the
village; better safeguard the public safety, health, and welfare of the
citizens of the village; and maintain an accurate record of businesses located
and carrying on commercial activities or commerce within the village. (Ord. 09-
31, 11-19-2009)
4-21-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases as used in this article shall have the
following meaning, unless a different meaning is required by the context:
BUSINESS: Any vocation, occupation, profession, enterprise, establishment,
concern, or any other type of commercial activity for profit, engaged in,
maintained, operated, carried on, or managed at a location within the village.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust, or
any other legal entity, except for such person or persons as may be organized
as an Illinois not for profit corporation, or any governmental body properly
organized under the law of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 09-31, 11-19-2009)
4-21-3: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall engage in, maintain, operate, conduct, carry on, or
manage any business, either by himself or itself, or through an agent,
employee, or partner, without first having registered same with the village.
Such registration is required when any person, by himself or through an agent,
employee, or partner, is held forth as being engaged in the business, or if he
solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively, or if he performs or
attempts such to perform any part of such business in the village.
   B.   Such registration shall not be required for any amusement,
entertainment or exhibition given by residents of the village who are not
engaged therein as a business for personal profit or gain, and the proceeds of
which are to be devoted exclusively for the benefit of a charitable
organization registered with the Illinois attorney general pursuant to the
solicitation for charity act 1 . (Ord. 09-31, 11-19-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 460/0.01 et seq.
4-21-4: APPLICATION:
Applications for the registration shall be made in writing to the village
administrator, except as may otherwise be provided by this article. If the
applicant is an individual, the application shall contain the individual's
name, residential address, and residential telephone number. If the applicant
is a partnership or other noncorporate business entity, the application shall
contain the name and residential address and residential telephone number of
each partner, principal, or member thereof. If the applicant is a corporation,
the application shall contain the name, residential address, and residential
telephone number of each principal officer and the registered agent thereof.
Each application shall also contain such additional information as may be
prescribed by the village administrator including, but not limited to:
   A.   The location at which the business will be conducted;
   B.   The fee to be paid;
   C.   The number of the certificate of registration required under the
Illinois retailers' occupation tax act, service occupation tax act, and/or use
tax act, if applicable;
   D.   The effective period of such registration;
   E.   The NAICS classification number(s) for the business; and
   F.   Such additional information as may be required by the village for the
evaluation of the application.
Forms for all applications and registrations shall be prepared and kept on file
by the village clerk. (Ord. 09-31, 11-19-2009)
4-21-5: REGISTRATION; TERM; EXPIRATION; RENEWAL:
   A.   Registration under this policy shall be for one calendar year, or a
portion thereof. Registration shall be effective for one calendar year, and the
registration year for the village shall commence on January 1, 2010, and of
each year thereafter. No registration shall be effective for more than one
calendar year. Except where otherwise provided herein, every registration shall
expire on December 31 following the date of registration.
   B.   Registration shall be renewed annually, upon proper application and
payment of the required fee. The requirements and procedures for renewing
registration shall be the same as the requirements and procedures for initial
registration. (Ord. 09-31, 11-19-2009)
4-21-6: REGISTRATION NOT ASSIGNABLE:
   A.   No registration may be assigned, conveyed, sold, loaned, or
transferred.
   B.   No person shall display any evidence of registration that has been
improperly acquired. (Ord. 09-31, 11-19-2009)
4-21-7: REGISTRATION FEE:
   A.   Fee: The fee for registration of a business pursuant to this article
shall pay to the village a fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00).
   B.   Payment Of Fee: The fee for registration shall be paid at the time a
registration is filed with the village.
   C.   Registration Of A Business: Except as may otherwise be prescribed by
action of the board of trustees, all fees paid for registration of a business
shall be added to the general corporate fund of the village, to reimburse said
fund for the costs incurred in processing said registration. In no event shall
any rebate or refund be made of any fee or part thereof paid hereunder, by
reason of death, bankruptcy, or discontinuance of the operation or conduct of
the registered business. (Ord. 09-31, 11-19-2009)
4-21-8: LOCATION:
   A.   A separate registration shall be required for each location at which a
business is maintained or is operated in the village. For the purposes of this
chapter, the existence of a single location shall be evidenced by the fact that
all buildings containing the principal or accessory uses shall be connected or
shall be located on the same lot or parcel, shall be operated, maintained and/
or managed by the same person or owner, and shall be an establishment with the
same NAICS classification.
   B.   Upon any change in the location of a registered business, the person
owning, maintaining, operating, conducting, carrying on, or managing such
business shall notify the village of such change, within ten (10) days of such
change. No new or additional fee shall be charged for filing such notice. (Ord.
09-31, 11-19-2009)
4-21-9: COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCES AND STATUTES:
The building and premises used in any business in the village shall comply with
all village zoning, building, fire and health codes and ordinances, as well as
all other applicable village codes, ordinances, rules, and regulations, and the
codes, ordinances, rules and regulations of any other governmental entity,
including, but not limited to, the state of Illinois, having jurisdiction over
such business. Such building and premises shall be maintained in good repair,
free of litter and debris; and shall be kept in a safe condition for employees,
customers and other persons present therein or thereon. (Ord. 09-31, 11-19-
2009)
4-21-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person who fails to register as required under this article shall
be liable upon conviction to pay a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00), plus any court costs imposed.
   B.   Any person who otherwise violates any provision of this article shall
be liable upon conviction to pay a fine of not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00), plus any court costs imposed.
   C.   Any person who seeks to register after notice of violation shall pay a
registration fee equal to one hundred dollars ($100.00), upon proper
application for such registration. (Ord. 09-31, 11-19-2009)
ARTICLE XXII
IDENTITY PROTECTION
SECTION:
4-22-1: Statement Of Purpose
4-22-2: Prohibitions
4-22-3: Requirement To Redact Social Security Numbers
4-22-4: Employee Access To Social Security Numbers
4-22-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
   A.   Whenever any individual is requested to provide any department or
office of the village with a social security number, the village, through its
appropriate officials and/or employees, shall provide that individual with a
copy of the statement of purpose approved from time to time by the village
board of trustees.
   B.   The village shall also provide a copy of such statement of purpose to
any person upon request.
   C.   The statement of purpose shall identify the purpose or purposes for
which the village is collecting, maintaining and/or using social security
numbers. (Ord. 11-13, 4-7-2011)
4-22-2: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   The village shall not under any circumstances:
      1.   Publicly post or publicly display in any manner an individual's
social security number. For purposes of this section, the terms "publicly post"
or "publicly display" shall mean to intentionally communicate or otherwise
intentionally make available to the general public.
      2.   Print an individual's social security number on any card required
for the individual to access products or services provided by the person or
entity.
      3.   Require an individual to transmit a social security number over the
internet, unless the connection is secure or the social security number is
encrypted.
      4.   Print an individual's social security number on any materials that
are mailed to the individual, through the U.S. postal service, any private mail
service, electronic mail, or any similar method of delivery, unless state or
federal law requires the social security number to be on the document to be
mailed. Social security numbers may be included in applications and forms sent
by mail, including, but not limited to, any material mailed in connection with
the administration of the unemployment insurance act, any material mailed in
connection with any tax administered by the department of revenue, and
documents sent as part of an application or enrollment process or to establish,
amend, or terminate an account, contract, or policy or to confirm the accuracy
of the social security number. A social security number that is permissibly
mailed will not be printed, in whole or in part, on a postcard or other mailer
that does not require an envelope or be visible on an envelope without the
envelope having been opened.
   B.   Except as described in subsection C of this section, the village shall
not perform any of the following acts:
      1.   Collect, use, or disclose a social security number from an
individual, unless:
         a.   Required to do so under state or federal law, rules, or
regulations, or the collection, use, or disclosure of the social security
number is otherwise necessary for the performance of the village's duties and
responsibilities;
         b.   The need and purpose for the social security number is documented
before collection of the social security number; and
         c.   The social security number collected is relevant to the
documented need and purpose.
      2.   Require an individual to use his or her social security number to
access an internet website.
      3.   Use the social security number for any purpose other than the
purpose for which it was collected.
      4.   Embed or encode a social security number in or on any card or
document, including, but not limited to, any bar code, chip, magnetic strip,
RFID technology or other technology in place of removing the social security
number as required by this act.
   C.   The prohibitions set out in subsection B of this section shall not
apply in the following circumstances:
      1.   The disclosure of social security numbers to agents, employees,
contractors, or subcontractors of a governmental entity or disclosure by a
governmental entity to another governmental entity or its agents, employees,
contractors, or subcontractors if disclosure is necessary in order for the
entity to perform its duties and responsibilities; and, if disclosing to a
contractor or subcontractor prior to such disclosure, the governmental entity
must first receive from the contractor or subcontractor a copy of the
contractor's or subcontractor's policy that sets forth how the requirements
imposed under this act on a governmental entity to protect an individual's
social security number will be achieved.
      2.   The disclosure of social security numbers pursuant to a court order,
warrant, or subpoena.
      3.   The collection, use, or disclosure of social security numbers in
order to ensure the safety of: state and local government employees; persons
committed to correctional facilities, local jails, and other law enforcement
facilities or retention centers; wards of the state; and all persons working in
or visiting a state or local government agency facility.
      4.   The collection, use, or disclosure of social security numbers for
internal verification or administrative purposes.
      5.   The disclosure of social security numbers by a state agency to any
entity for the collection of delinquent child support or of any state debt or
to a governmental agency to assist with an investigation or the prevention of
fraud.
      6.   The collection or use of social security numbers to investigate or
prevent fraud, to conduct background checks, to collect a debt, to obtain a
credit report from a consumer reporting agency under the federal fair credit
reporting act, to undertake any permissible purpose that is enumerated under
the federal Gramm Leach Bliley act, or to locate a missing person, a lost
relative, or a person who is due a benefit, such as a pension benefit or an
unclaimed property benefit. (Ord. 11-13, 4-7-2011)
4-22-3: REQUIREMENT TO REDACT SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS:
   A.   The village shall comply with the provisions of any other state law
with respect to allowing the public inspection and copying of information or
documents otherwise containing all or any portion of an individual's social
security number.
   B.   The village shall redact any social security number from the
information or documents to be inspected before allowing the public inspection
or copying of the information or documents.
   C.   The village shall take steps to make any social security number
provided to the village easily redactable from any such documents.
   D.   For purposes of these regulations, "redact" means to alter or truncate
the applicable data so that no more than five (5) sequential digits of a social
security number are accessible as part of personal information. (Ord. 11-13, 4-
7-2011)
4-22-4: EMPLOYEE ACCESS TO SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS:
   A.   Only officials and employees who are required to use or handle
information or documents that contain social security numbers will have access
to such.
   B.   All officials and employees who shall have access to social security
numbers shall be trained to protect the confidentiality of social security
numbers in accordance with the act, including receiving a copy of this chapter
once adopted and whenever amended. (Ord. 11-13, 4-7-2011)
ARTICLE XXIII
VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
4-23-1: Definitions
4-23-2: Registration Required
4-23-3: Registration Fee
4-23-4: Issuance; Expiration
4-23-5: Penalty
4-23-1: DEFINITIONS:
The terms used herein, including, but not limited to, "video gaming location"
and "video gaming terminal", shall be defined as set forth in the Illinois
video gaming act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/5-1-1 et seq., as now in
effect and as hereafter amended. (Ord. 12-19, 7-19-2012)
4-23-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   The owner of any video gaming location in the Village shall be required
to register each video gaming terminal to be placed at such location.
   B.   For each video gaming terminal to be located in the Village, an
application for registration shall be filed by the following, as may be
applicable:
      1.   The holder of the liquor license for the premises of a licensed
establishment;
      2.   An authorized representative of the licensed truck stop;
      3.   An authorized representative of a licensed large truck stop;
      4.   An authorized representative of the licensed fraternal organization;
      5.   An authorized representative of the licensed veteran's organization.
   C.   The village clerk shall provide a form for such application, and the
applicant shall provide in full such information as is requested by the Village
on such form. (Ord. 12-19, 7-19-2012; amd. Ord. 19-18, 8-8-2019)
4-23-3: REGISTRATION FEE:
Effective for any new registrations applied for after the effective date of
this Ordinance, and for renewals of registration for the calendar year
commencing January 1, 2023, the annual fee for the registration required by
this Article shall be paid upon filing an application, shall be non-
refundable, shall not be prorated, and shall be as follows:
 
Video gaming terminal registration, annual fee $250.00
 
(Ord. 12-19, 7-19-2012; amd. Ord. 22-01, 1-20-2022)
4-23-4: ISSUANCE; EXPIRATION:
Any registration authorized under this article shall be for a calendar year, or
the pertinent portion thereof; shall terminate on December 31 of the year of
registration; and shall be renewable upon receipt and approval of a proper
application therefor. (Ord. 12-19, 7-19-2012)
4-23-5: PENALTY:
The penalty for any violation of the provisions of this article shall be a fine
of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each
day an offense occurs or continues shall be considered a new offense. (Ord. 12-
19, 7-19-2012)
ARTICLE XXIV
TATTOO PARLORS AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-24-1: Definitions
4-24-2: Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
4-24-3: Locations
4-24-4: License Required
4-24-5: Hours Of Operation
4-24-1: DEFINITIONS:
The terms "tattoo parlor" and "body piercing establishment" shall be defined as
set forth in the zoning regulations, chapter 6, article II of this code. (Ord.
14-20, 5-1-2014)
4-24-2: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED:
No liquor license shall be issued for any premises at which a tattoo parlor or
body piercing establishment is also located, and no alcoholic beverages shall
be sold, served, or consumed on said premises. (Ord. 14-20, 5-1-2014)
4-24-3: LOCATIONS:
No tattoo parlor or body piercing establishment shall be operated at any
location in the village except as described in chapter 6, "Zoning", of this
code. (Ord. 14-20, 5-1-2014)
4-24-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
The owner and operator of any tattoo parlor or body piercing establishment
shall at all times hold current and valid applicable state of Illinois and any
other governmental licenses for the business operation and all employees. (Ord.
14-20, 5-1-2014)
4-24-5: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No tattoo parlor or body piercing establishment shall be open to the public
prior to eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M., or after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M., on any
day. (Ord. 14-20, 5-1-2014)
ARTICLE XXV
TAX ON THE GROSS RECEIPTS OF PLACES FOR EATING
SECTION:
4-25-1: Definitions
4-25-2: Tax Imposed
4-25-3: Registration
4-25-4: Books And Records; Inspection; Contents
4-25-5: Transmittal Of Tax Revenue By Owner; Delinquency
4-25-6: Transmittal Of Excess Tax Collections
4-25-7: Collection
4-25-8: Suspension Of Licenses
4-25-9: Penalties
4-25-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
            The consideration received, valued in money, whether received in money or
            otherwise, including cash, credits, property and services, at a place for eating
            for prepared food furnished at the place for eating. Gross receipts do not
            include amounts paid for federal, state and local taxes, including the tax levied
            by this article, and do not include amounts paid as gratuities for the employees
            of the place for eating.
            1.   Gross receipts shall include consideration as defined herein received for
            food which is prepared by a food or catering business operated within the
            corporate limits of the Village and which is consumed at, or which is intended
            for delivery to and consumption at, a location within the Village.
            2.   Gross receipts shall include consideration as defined herein received for
GROSS       food which is prepared by a food or catering business operated outside the
RECEIPTS:   corporate limits of the Village but which is consumed at, or which is intended
            for delivery to and consumption at, a location within the Village.
            3.   Gross receipts shall not include consideration as defined herein received
            for food which is prepared by a food or catering business operated within the
            corporate limits of the Village and which is consumed at, or which is intended
            for delivery to and consumption at, a location outside the corporate limits of
            the Village.
            4.   Gross receipts shall not include consideration as defined herein for the
            sale of prepared food delivered or sold directly to consumers from automated
            vending machines.
            5.   Gross receipts shall not include consideration, as defined herein, for
            prepared food which is provided to students of cooking classes where no charge is
            made for the prepared food other than the cost of enrollment in the class.
OWNER:      Any person and each person having an ownership interest in or conducting the
            operation of a place for eating.
            Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock company,
PERSON or   joint venture, public or private corporation, limited liability company or the
PERSONS:    like, club, fraternal organization, or a receiver, executor, trustee, conservator
            or its representative appointed by order of any court.
            1.   "Places for eating" or "place for eating" means all premises located within
            the corporate limits of the Village where prepared food is sold at retail for
            immediate consumption, whether consumed on the premises or not, and including but
            not limited to such a place with seating provided for consumption of said
PLACES FOR  prepared food on the premises, and whether or not such place for eating is
EATING or   conducted along with any other use in a common premise or business establishment.
PLACE FOR   2.   "Places for eating" or "place for eating" includes, but is not limited to,
EATING:     those establishments commonly called a restaurant, eating place, drive-in
            restaurant, buffet, bakery, banquet facility, cafeteria, cafe, lunch counter,
            fast food outlet, catering service, coffee shop, diner, sandwich shop, soda
            fountain, bar, cocktail lounge, video gaming establishment, soft drink parlor,
            ice cream parlor, tea room, delicatessen, hotel, motel, or club, or any other
            establishment which sells at retail prepared food for immediate consumption.
            Means and includes any solid, liquid (including both alcoholic and non-alcoholic
PREPARED    liquid), powder or item used or intended to be used for human internal
FOOD:       consumption, whether simple, compound or mixed, and which has been prepared for
            consumption by a place for eating.
            To sell for use or consumption in exchange for a consideration, whether in the
SOLD AT     form of money, credits, barter or any other nature, and not for resale, with said
RETAIL:     transaction being subject to either the Illinois Retailers' Occupation Tax (ILCS
            Ch. 35, Act 120 §§ 1 et seq.) or the Illinois Service Occupation Tax (ILCS Ch.
            35, Act IIS §§ 1 et seq.).
UNIT OF     Any municipal, township, special district, and/or school district entity with a
LOCAL       place of operation located in the Village.
GOVERNMENT:
VILLAGE     The person appointed to said office, including a Village Finance Director, and/or
TREASURER:  his or her designee, deputy, or representative. (Ord. 19-07, 3-21-2019)
 
4-25-2: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   There is hereby levied and imposed upon the owner(s) of a place for
eating a tax at the rate of two percent (2%) of gross receipts received for
prepared food sold at retail at the place of eating on or after May 1, 2019.
   B.   The owner of a place for eating may collect an amount from persons who
purchase prepared food at the place for eating which shall reimburse the owner
for the tax imposed on the owner by this article.
   C.   The tax levied by this article shall be paid in addition to any and all
other taxes and charges.
   D.   In the event the prepared food is sold at retail on credit, an owner
shall not be liable for payment of the tax imposed by this article on such a
sale until the owner receives payment for the sale.
   E.   This tax shall not be imposed upon any unit of local government that
sells prepared foods within a facility owned or operated by such unit of local
government, whether such sales are made directly by the unit of local
government or by a third party selling prepared food on behalf of the unit of
local government pursuant to a contract between the unit of local government
and the third party. (Ord. 19-07, 3-21-2019; amd. Ord. 21-11, 4-15-2021)
4-25-3: REGISTRATION:
Every owner maintaining a place for eating in the Village shall on a form
provided by the Village register such eating place by April 15, 2019, or on the
date of becoming such an owner, whichever is later. (Ord. 19-07, 3-21-2019)
4-25-4: BOOKS AND RECORDS; INSPECTION; CONTENTS:
   A.   The Village Treasurer may enter the premises of any place for eating
for inspection, examination, copying and auditing of books and records
including, but not limited to, Illinois Retailers' Occupation Tax and Illinois
Service Occupation Tax returns filed with the Illinois Department of Revenue,
in order to effectuate the proper administration of this article, and to assure
the enforcement of the collection of the tax imposed by this article. To the
extent reasonably possible, said entry shall be done in a manner that is least
disruptive to the business of the place for eating.
      1.   It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete
books and records to which the Village Treasurer shall at all times have full
access, which records shall include a daily sheet showing the amount of gross
receipts during that day.
         a.   The Village may, in its discretion, hire an independent party to
conduct an audit of said books and records.
         b.   The costs of such audit shall be borne by the owner.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder, or interfere
with the Village Treasurer, or any independent auditor designated by them, in
the discharge of their duties under this subsection. (Ord. 19-07, 3-21-2019)
4-25-5: TRANSMITTAL OF TAX REVENUE BY OWNER; DELINQUENCY:
   A.   The owner or owners of each place for eating shall each calendar month
file a tax return showing the gross receipts received during such monthly
period, upon forms prescribed by the Village Treasurer. Such forms may be filed
physically, or may be filed electronically via such website and/or application
as may be approved and implemented by the Village Treasurer.
      1.   At the time of the filing of said tax returns, the owner shall pay
to the Village all taxes due for the period to which the tax return applies.
      2.   Returns for each calendar month shall be due on or before the
twentieth day of the next calendar month, (e.g., the return for January shall
be due on or before the twentieth day of February; the return for February
shall be due on or before the twentieth day of March; etc.).
      3.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the owner of the
place for eating is allowed to file Illinois Retailers' Occupation Tax and
Illinois Service Occupation Tax returns with the Illinois Department of Revenue
at intervals which are greater than monthly, said owner shall be allowed to
file tax returns relative to the tax imposed by this article with the Village
at said greater intervals.
   B.   Any tax due pursuant to this article which is not paid when due shall
accrue interest at the rate of one percent (1%) monthly until paid.
   C.   In the event collection proceedings are initiated by the Village, the
owner shall be responsible for paying the costs incurred by the Village,
including but not limited to reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
   D.   In addition, the owner shall be subject to suspension of licenses and
penalties as set forth in §§ 4-25-7 through 4-25-9 below. (Ord. 19-07, 3-21-
2019)
4-25-6: TRANSMITTAL OF EXCESS TAX COLLECTIONS:
If any owner collects an amount upon a sale not subject to the tax imposed
hereby, but which amount is purported to be the collection of said tax, or if
an owner collects an amount upon a sale greater than the amount of the tax so
imposed herein, and does not for any reason return the same to the purchaser
who paid the same before filing the return for the period in which such
occurred, said owner shall account for and pay over those amounts to the
Village along with the tax properly collected. (Ord. 19-07, 3-21-2019)
4-25-7: COLLECTION:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay any amount due under this article, the
Village Attorney or Village Prosecutor shall, upon request of the Village
President or Village Administrator, or his or her respective designee, bring or
cause to be brought an action to enforce the payment of said amount on behalf
of the Village in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 19-07, 3-21-2019)
4-25-8: SUSPENSION OF LICENSES:
   A.   The Village President may suspend or revoke any or all Village licenses
held by an owner, if after hearing, he shall find that such owner has willfully
avoided payment of any sum due under this article.
      1.   The owner shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing.
      2.   The hearing shall be held not less than ten (10) days after notice
has been personally served on the owner or mailed to the owner addressed to
owner's last known place of business, stating the time when and the place where
the hearing is to be held.
   B.   Any suspension or revocation of any license(s) shall not release or
discharge the owner from his or her civil liability for the payment of any
amounts due hereunder, nor from prosecution for such offense. (Ord. 19-07, 3-
21-2019)
4-25-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting,
or refusing to comply with or unlawfully resisting or opposing the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this article upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   B.   Each day upon which a person shall continue any violation of this
article, or permit any such violation to exist after notification thereof,
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   C.   Any person subjected to the penalties provided for by this subsection
shall not be discharged or released from the payment of any amounts due
pursuant to this article. (Ord. 19-07, 3-21-2019)
ARTICLE XXVI
ADULT-USE CANNABIS
SECTION:
4-26-1: Purpose And Applicability
4-26-2: Special Use
4-26-3: Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishment Factors
4-26-4: Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower Facility
4-26-5: Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center Facility
4-26-6: Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Facility
4-26-7: Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Facility
4-26-8: Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Facility
4-26-9: Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Facility
4-26-10: Additional Requirements
4-26-11: Co-Location Of Cannabis Business Establishments
4-26-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
It is the intent and purpose of this section to provide regulations regarding
the cultivation, processing and dispensing of adult-use cannabis occurring
within the corporate limits of the Village .
   A.   Such facilities shall comply with all regulations provided in the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027) (Act), as it may be amended
from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the regulations
provided below.
   B.   In the event that the Act is amended at any time after the effective
date of this article, the more restrictive of the state or local regulations
shall apply.
   C.   The definitions contained in Chapter 6: Zoning Regulations, shall apply
to the provisions of this article. (Ord. 20-08, 2-6-2020)
4-26-2: SPECIAL USE:
Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishments shall be a special use in the
respective zoning districts in which they may be located in the Village, and
shall be considered for approval pursuant to §
6-14-3 (H) of the Zoning Regulations and the provisions of this article. (Ord.
20-08, 2-6-2020)
4-26-3: ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT FACTORS:
In reviewing an application for special use for an adult-use cannabis business
establishment, the following components of an adult-use business establishment
shall be evaluated based on the entirety of the circumstances affecting the
particular property on which it is proposed to be located, together with the
context of the existing and intended future use of other properties in the
vicinity of the proposed use and any other requirements of this article:
   A.   Compliance with all requirements of this article, as applicable;
   B.   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses in the
vicinity of the subject property;
   C.   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, including co-
tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, security
installations/security plan, and compliance with the requirements of all
applicable building codes;
   D.   Hours of operation;
   E.   Anticipated number of customers and employees;
   F.   Anticipated parking demand based on §
6-10-1  of this Code, together with available parking supply;
   G.   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways;
   H.   Site design, including access points and internal site circulation;
   I.   Proposed signage plan; and
   J.   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance with §
6-14-3 (H) of the Village Code. (Ord. 20-08, 2-6-2020)
4-26-4: ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER FACILITY:
In those zoning districts in which an adult-use cannabis craft grower facility
may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   A.   The facility may contain up to five thousand (5,000) square feet of
canopy space on its premises for plants in the flowering state; provided also,
the facility may be authorized by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
increase or decrease the space devoted to plants in the flowering stage in
increments of three thousand (3,000) square feet by rule based on market need,
craft grower capacity, and the licensee's history of compliance or
noncompliance, with a maximum space of fourteen thousand (14,000) square feet
for cultivating plants in the flowering stage, which must be cultivated in all
stages of growth in an enclosed and secure area.
   B.   For purposes of determining required parking, an adult-use cannabis
craft grower facility shall be classified as "Manufacturing, fabricating and
processing plants not engaged in retail sales" for purposes of §
6-11-2  of the Village Zoning Regulations provided, however, that the Village
may reasonably require that additional parking be provided at any particular
location proposed for such use. (Ord. 20-08, 2-6-2020)
4-26-5: ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER FACILITY:
In those zoning districts in which an adult-use cannabis cultivation center
facility may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   A.   The facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
   B.   For purposes of determining required parking, an adult-use cannabis
cultivation center shall be classified as "manufacturing, processing and
fabrication plants not engaged in retail sales" for purposes of §
6-11-2  of the Village Zoning Regulations, provided, however, that the Village
may reasonably require that additional parking be provided at any particular
location proposed for such use. (Ord. 20-08, 2-6-2020)
4-26-6: ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING FACILITY:
In those zoning districts in which an adult-use cannabis dispensing facility
may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   A.   The facility may not be located within five hundred (500) feet of the
property line of a pre-existing preschool, primary or secondary school or any
other accredited educational facility, or a licensed day care center. Learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this section. Provided, the minimum distance
prescribed by this subsection shall not apply to any location on State Street
from Jackson Avenue to Allen Road.
   B.   At least seventy-five percent (75%) of the floor area of any tenant
space occupied by a dispensing facility shall be devoted to the activities of
the dispensing facility as authorized by the Act.
   C.   The facility shall not allow consumption of cannabis on the premises of
the facility, and any person who consumes cannabis on the premises of the
facility shall be deemed to be in violation of §§
2-23-1  et seq. of the Village Code.
   D.   No food items shall be sold for consumption on the premises in any
tenant space occupied by a dispensing facility.
   E.   The facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
   F.   For purposes of determining required parking, such facility shall be
classified as "Retail Store" for purposes of §
6-11-2  of the Village Zoning Regulations; provided, however, that the Village
may reasonably require that additional parking be provided at any particular
location proposed for such use. (Ord. 20-08, 2-6-2020)
4-26-7: ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER FACILITY:
In those zoning districts in which an adult-use cannabis infuser facility may
be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   A.   At least seventy-five percent (75%) of the floor area of any tenant
space occupied by an infusing facility shall be devoted to the activities of
the infusing facility as authorized by the Act.
   B.   The facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
   C.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall be
classified as "Manufacturing, processing and fabricating plant not engaged in
retail sales" for purposes of §
6-11-2  of the Village Zoning Regulations, provided, however, that the Village
may reasonably require that additional parking be provided at any particular
location proposed for such use. (Ord. 20-08, 2-6-2020)
4-26-8:    ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING FACILITY:
In those zoning districts in which an adult-use cannabis processing facility
may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   A.   The facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
   B.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall be
classified as "manufacturing, processing and fabricating plant not engaged in
retail sales" for purposes of §
6-11-2  of the Village Zoning Regulations, provided, however, that the Village
may reasonably require that additional parking be provided at any particular
location proposed for such use. (Ord. 20-08, 2-6-2020)
4-26-9:    ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING FACILITY:
In those zoning districts in which an adult-use transporting facility may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   A.   The transporting facility shall be the sole use of the tenant space in
which it is located.
   B.   The facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
   C.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall be
classified as "Other Use" for purposes of §
6-11-2  of the Village Zoning Regulations, provided, however, that the Village
may reasonably require that additional parking be provided at any particular
location proposed for such use. (Ord. 20-08, 2-6-2020)
4-26-10: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
The Village may require, and petitioner shall construct or install, building or
site enhancements, such as security cameras, lighting, or other improvements,
to ensure the safety of employees and customers of the adult-use cannabis
business establishments, as well as its environs. Said improvements shall be
determined by the Village in its sole discretion based on the specific
characteristics of the floor plan for a proposed adult-use cannabis business
establishment and of the site plan for the property on which it is located,
consistent with the requirements of the Act. (Ord. 20-08, 2-6-2020)
4-26-11: CO-LOCATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS:
The Village may approve the co-location of an adult-use cannabis craft grower
facility with either or both of an adult-use cannabis dispensing facility and
adult-use cannabis processing facility, subject to the provisions of the Act
and the conditional use criteria of the Village Code, including but not limited
to the following:
   A.   If more than one (1) licensed organization is involved, then either all
organizations sharing a vault on the premises shall also share more than fifty
percent (50%) of the same ownership; or each organization shall store its
currency and inventory of cannabis and cannabis-infused products in a separate
vault in which the other organization does not have access.
   B.   The facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
   C.   The co-located establishments shall be the sole uses of any tenant
space in which they are located; provided also, for any such co-location, the
floor space requirements of §§
4-26-6 (B) and
4-26-7 (A) shall not apply, but the co-located establishments shall be the sole
uses of the tenant space.
   D.   Any such use may be classified as "Other Use" for purposes of §
6-11-2  of the Village Zoning Regulations, provided, however, that the Village
may reasonably require that additional parking be provided at any particular
location proposed for such collocated use. (Ord. 20-08, 2-6-2020)
ARTICLE XXVII
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
4-27-1: Tax Imposed; Rate
4-27-2: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
4-27-1: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis at retail in the Village, other than cannabis purchased under
the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at the rate of 3%
of the gross receipts from those sales made in the course of such business.
   B.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 8-11-22 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22). (Ord. 20-
06, 1-16-2020)
4-27-2: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax imposed by this article shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue (the "Department"). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this article and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State. Each qualifying retailer
may reimburse itself for such retailer's liability hereunder by stating and
collecting the tax as an additional charge; provided, such charge may be stated
in combination, in a single amount, with any State tax that the retailer is
required to collect.
   B.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department.
   C.   The Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this article. (Ord. 20-06, 1-16-2020)
ARTICLE XXVIII
HOME KITCHEN OPERATIONS AND COTTAGE FOOD OPERATIONS
SECTION:
4-28-1: General Provisions
4-28-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The Village hereby adopts and incorporates in to the Village Code the
provisions of the Illinois Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act, 410 ILCS
625/0.01 et seq., as enacted and as from time to time amended.
   B.   Home kitchen operations and cottage food operations, as defined and
regulated by Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act, are permitted within the
Village, subject to the regulations set forth in Chapter 6: Zoning.
   C.   No home kitchen operation may be conducted except in compliance with
the Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act.
   D.   No cottage food operation may be conducted except in compliance with
the Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act. (Ord. 19-20, 8-22-2019)
ARTICLE XXIX
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
SECTION:
4-29-1: Definitions
4-29-2: License
4-29-3: Penalty
4-29-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall have the meanings set forth herein:
 
                    Means any food prepared for immediate human consumption and
                    shall include pre-packaged food items, pre-prepared food
EDIBLE GOODS:       items, and on-site prepared food items for immediate human
                    consumption. Edible goods shall not include food that is
                    intended to be prepared by the purchaser prior to human
                    consumption.
                    Means any person who sells edible goods from a non-
                    stationary location upon the village roadways or sidewalks
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: and shall include "mobile food trucks," which shall mean
                    any self-contained motorized unit selling edible goods.
                    (Ord. 20-18, 6-4-2020)
 
4-29-2: LICENSE:
   A.   Application: Applications for a license to operate as a mobile food
vendor in the Village shall be made on a form or forms provided by the Village
for that purpose, and filed with the Village Clerk together with the applicable
fee(s) established from time to time by the Board of Trustees. Each application
shall contain all required information, and shall be signed by the applicant,
under oath, and notarized.
   B.   Eligibility: No such license shall be issued to or held by any person:
      1.   Who has provided incomplete or incorrect information on an
application,
      2.   Who has violated any provision of state law or the village code, or
      3.   Who has not registered to collect appropriate sales and places for
eating taxes for sales occurring in the village.
   C.   Limit on days of operation: Each mobile food truck or cart shall be
allowed to operate in the Village not more than one (1) day per week.
   D.   License for vehicle; inspections: No mobile food truck shall be
operated unless it bears a valid, state-issued vehicle license.
   E.   Operations: All mobile food vendors shall at all times comply with the
applicable rules and regulations of the Kane County Health Department.
   F.   Sales: Sales from a mobile food vendor shall be subject to the
following:
      1.   The licensee shall be permitted to sell food products from the
licensed trucks or carts between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) a.m. and ten
o’clock (10:00) p.m.
      2.   Sales from any mobile food truck or cart shall not occur at any
location within one hundred fifty (150') feet of the main entrance of an
existing restaurant in the Village.
      3.   Sales may be made on any public roadway. All sales from any roadway
must be conducted from licensed trucks that have come to a full stop at the
curb line of the roadway; and, in no event shall sales activities of any mobile
food vender impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
      4.   Sales from a mobile food vendor may be made on any other public
property, including but not limited to any public parking lot or public park or
open space, subject to the prior approval of the Village Manager as to any
location(s) and time period(s) for such use.
   G.   Insurance: No mobile food truck shall be operated unless it is covered
by a policy of insurance for liability, naming the Village as an additional
insured, in amounts not less than the following: or personal injury and
property damage with limits of coverage not less than three hundred thousand
dollars ($300,000.00) per person and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per
occurrence for personal injuries and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
for property damage. The applicant for license shall furnish to the Village
Clerk a copy of an appropriate certificate of insurance prior to the issuance
of a license.
   H.   Revocation: A license issued pursuant to the Chapter may be revoked by
the Corporate Authorities for violation of the provisions of this Article, or
for a violation of any other provision of this Code relating to the conduct of
such business, the condition of the premises, the articles sold, or to the
license required.
   I.   Exemptions: Any mobile food vendor which applies to participate in an
event sanctioned by the Village may be exempted from the requirements of this
Article, with approval of the Village Manager. (Ord. 20-18, 6-4-2020)
4-29-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be fined not less
then one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00); and each day a violation exists or continues shall be
considered a separate violation. (Ord. 20-18, 6-4-2020)
CHAPTER 5
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Administration And Enforcement   I
International Building Code    II
International Residential Code    III
International Property Maintenance Code    IV
International Fire Code    V
Illinois Plumbing Code    VI
National Electrical Code    VII
International Fuel Gas Code   VIII
Illinois Accessibility Law; Illinois Environmental Barriers Act   IX
International Energy Conservation Code    X
International Mechanical Code    XI
International Green Construction Code    XII
International Swimming Pool And Spa Code    XIII
National Fire Protection Association Standards (NFPA)   XIV
International Existing Buildings Code    XV
International Solar Energy Provisions    XVI
International Wildland-Urban Interface Code    XVII
Residential Design   XVIII
Supporting Documentation Required For Building Permits, Construction And
Certificates of Occupancy   XIX
Reimbursement Of Certain Fees    XX
Building Permit Fees    XXI
Trees And General Landscaping Requirements   XXII
Wind Energy Collection Systems    XXIII
Solar Energy Systems   XXIV
Construction Hours   XXV
ARTICLE I
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Title
5-1-2: Scope
5-1-3: Applicability
5-1-4: Existing Structures
5-1-5: Building Permits
5-1-6: Permit Application Review And Approval
5-1-7: Permit Conditions
5-1-8: Inspections
5-1-9: Time Limits
5-1-10: Cancellation Of Permit; Return Of Fees
5-1-11: Revocation Of Permit
5-1-12: Stop Work Orders
5-1-13: Certificates Of Occupancy
5-1-14: Unsafe Structures And Premises
5-1-15: Emergency Measures
5-1-16: Moving Buildings
5-1-17: Building Numbers And Addresses
5-1-18: Demolitions
5-1-19: Unlawful Acts
5-1-20: Notice Of Violations
5-1-21: Prosecution Of Violations
5-1-22: Penalties
5-1-23: Abatement Of Violations
5-1-24: Penalties As Noted In Other Articles Of This Title
5-1-25: Interpretations; Appeals
5-1-26: Fees
5-1-1: TITLE:
This Chapter 5 will be known as the Hampshire Building Regulations. (Ord. 22-
27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-2: SCOPE:
The regulations of this Chapter 5 control all matters concerning the
construction, alterations, addition, repair, replacement, removal, demolition,
use, occupancy, and maintenance of all buildings and structures, and these
regulations apply to existing or proposed buildings and structures. (Ord. 22-
27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   General. These regulations cover all matters affecting or relating to
buildings and structures, as set forth throughout this chapter.
   B.   Exemptions. These regulations will not be construed to require
alterations to lawfully constructed existing buildings or equipment, unless
specific provision is made to the contrary or unless the provision is expressly
made retroactive.
   C.   Building and Fire Official: The building and fire official of the
village, is the building official, or his or her authorized designee and fire
official responsible for implementing and enforcing this chapter. Any reference
in this Title to the "building official, or his or her authorized designee",
"director", "fire official", "building official, or his or her authorized
designee" or "code official" shall refer to and mean the Village Manager or
his/her designee.
   D.   Matters not provided for. Any requirement essential for structural,
fire, electrical, mechanical, or sanitary safety of an existing or proposed
building or structure, or essential for the safety of the occupants thereof,
and which is not specifically covered by this title or other codes and
ordinances of the Village, will be determined by the building official, or his
or her authorized designee based on the exercise of his or her best
professional judgment in accordance with customary practice in the field.
   E.   Other regulations. When these regulations are more restrictive than
other codes, ordinances, or regulations of the Village, this title will apply
and control; but, in every case, the most rigid requirements of either this
title or such other applicable codes, ordinances, and regulations as may be in
force or legally adopted will apply and control whenever they may be in
conflict. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-4: EXISTING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Unlawful uses. Any use, building, or structure used or construed
unlawfully or that was in violation of any previous codes or regulations, prior
to the adoption of this Chapter, will be deemed a continuing violation and
subject to the penalties of this title.
   B.   Continuation of uses consistent with the Village Zoning Regulations.
Consistent with the village's zoning regulations, set forth in Chapter 6 of
this Municipal Code, the legal use and occupancy of any building or structure
existing on the date of adoption of this title or for which building permits
have been applied and which meet all provisions of previous regulations may be
continued without change, except as may be specifically covered in this title
or as may be deemed necessary by the building official, or his or her
authorized designee for the general safety and welfare of the occupants and the
public.
   C.   Changes in use. It is unlawful to make any change in the use or
occupancy of any building or structure or portion thereof which would subject
it to any provision of this title without the approval of the building
official, or his or her authorized designee, who will determine that such
building or structure meets the intent of the provisions of all codes and
ordinances governing the new use or occupancy and that such change does not
result in any greater hazard to public safety or welfare. When a change of use
is contemplated in any part of an existing building or structure, that part of
the building or structure must be upgraded to comply with this title.
   D.   Alterations or repairs. Alterations or repairs may be made to any
building or structure without requiring the entire building or existing
structure to comply with all the requirements of this title provided such
alterations or repairs themselves conform to all applicable requirements for a
new building or structure and provided further that such alterations or repairs
must not cause an existing building or structure to become unsafe or unsanitary
and must not adversely affect the performance of the building or structure. All
areas of a building, new and existing, must comply with all fire and life
safety provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-5: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required. It is unlawful to construct, enlarge, repair, alter,
or demolish a structure, or to change the occupancy of a building or structure
in a manner requiring greater strength, an altered exit way, or sanitary
provisions, or to change to another use, or to install or alter any equipment
for which provision is made in or the installation of which is regulated by
this title, without first filing an application with the building official, or
his or her authorized designee in writing and obtaining the required permits
therefor; except that the permit requirement may be waived, in the sole
discretion of the building official, or his or her authorized designee, for
work costing two hundred dollars ($200.00) or less.
   B.   Form Of Application. Every application for a permit must be submitted
on a building permit application form supplied by the Village of Hampshire and
must be accompanied by such fees as prescribed in the municipal code.
   C.   By Whom Application Is Made. Every application for a permit must be
made by the owner in fee or lessee of the building or structure, or the agent
of either, or by the contractor or licensed engineer or architect employed by
such owner or lessee in connection with the work to be done. If the application
is made by a person other than the owner in fee, then the application must be
accompanied by a duly verified affidavit of the owner, or the qualified person
making the application, stating that the proposed work is authorized by the
owner in fee and that the applicant is authorized to make such application. The
full names and addresses of the owner, lessee, and applicant and of the
responsible officers, if the owner or lessee is a corporate body, must be
stated in the application. All applications shall have all project applicable
contractors listed on the permit.
   D.   Description Of Work. Every application for a permit must contain a
general description of the proposed work, its location, the use and occupancy
of all parts of the building or structure and of all portions of the site or
lot not covered by the building or structure, and such additional information
as may be required by the building official, or his or her authorized designee.
   E.   Plans And Specifications. Every application for a permit must be
submitted electronically and accompanied by copies of specifications and plans
drawn to scale, unless the building official, or his or her authorized designee
grants permission to submit fewer than five copies or it is submitted
electronically. The specifications and plans must be drawn with sufficient
clarity, detail, and dimensions to clearly show the nature and character of the
work to be performed. When, in the determination of the building official, or
his or her authorized designee, a specific level of quality of materials or
systems is essential for conformity to this title, specific information must be
given to establish such quality. The terms "this title", "legal", "its
equivalent", or any other such terms may not be used as a substitute for
specific information. When the estimated cost of construction exceeds ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00), or is a non-residential project, or the proposed
work involves the structural components of the building, the plans and
specifications must bear the signature and seal of an architect or a structural
engineer licensed to work in Illinois and, if appropriate, the signature and
seal of a registered professional engineer. The building official, or his or
her authorized designee may waive the requirement for filing plans when the
work involved is of a minor nature. When an application is made for an
unusually complex or innovative design or magnitude of construction causes use
of various referenced and not referenced codes and standards and they must be
extensively applied to determine code compliance, the building official, or his
or her authorized designee may require that the plan review be conducted by an
approved plan review service/company or alternative reviewing agency at the
applicant's expense.
   F.   Plat Of Survey. Every application must include an electronic copy of a
certified plat of survey prepared, signed, and sealed by a qualified land
surveyor licensed by the state of Illinois, showing all boundaries of the
property, setback lines, existing structures if any, and all easements of
record submitted with the application or electronically, unless the requirement
is waived by the building official, or his or her authorized designee.
   G.   Estimate of Cost. Every application must include an estimate by the
owner or his or her representative or agent of the total estimated cost of the
work proposed. Such cost estimate must include, among other things, all costs
of site preparation, mobilization, excavation, heating, plumbing, electrical
wiring, carpentry, materials, fire protection, utilities, air conditioning, and
the like. If the total cost at completion exceeds such cost estimate, then the
permittee must file with the building official, or his or her authorized
designee a statement of such total cost at completion. The building official,
or his or her authorized designee reserves the right to request documentation
of completed project cost
   H.   Site Plan.
   I.   Every application for a permit authorizing new construction must
include a fully dimensioned site plan, drawn to scale in accordance with a plat
of survey, showing the size and location of all new construction and all
existing buildings and structures on the site, distances of the buildings or
structures to all property lines, and the existing grades at the corners of the
site and at as many other locations as necessary to show the topography of the
site. The site plan also must show the proposed final grades of the top of the
building foundation walls, the finished site grades at all corners, the
intended surface water drainage plan, all Parking lots with the required
vehicle Parking stalls, all outside lighting, landscaping, utility lines, and
other required elements.
   J.   For demolition projects, the site plan must show all buildings and
structures to be demolished, the location and size of all existing buildings
and structures that are to remain on the site, and all finished grades, storm
water drainage structures, and swales to drain the site on completion of the
demolition work. There shall also be a tree survey submitted indicating the
existing trees on the property and the trees that will be removed or impacted
by the demolition project. A property restoration plan shall also be included
with the submittal.
   K.   In all cases, the requirement of a fully developed site plan may be
modified or waived by the building official, or his or her authorized designee
in lieu of a simple plat plan for small building additions, accessory buildings
and structures, demolition of minor buildings or structures, or other minor
projects.
   I.   Spot-In Survey. In all cases, a spot in survey ("spotted survey") is
required after foundation walls have been poured and stripped or any slab but
before any work on the superstructure is begun. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-6: PERMIT APPLICATION REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
   A.   Action on Application. The building official, or his or her authorized
designee will examine or cause to be examined each application for a permit,
and any amendments thereto, within a reasonable time after filing. If the
application, plans, or other required documents do not conform to the
requirements of all pertinent laws and ordinances, then the building official,
or his or her authorized designee will notify the applicant of the deficiencies
of the application and generally of any additional information or data
necessary to establish that the application will meet the applicable
requirements. When the building official, or his or her authorized designee is
satisfied that the proposed work as represented by the permit application,
plans, and documents conforms to the requirements of this title and all laws
and ordinances applicable thereto, the building official, or his or her
authorized designee will issue a permit as soon as practicable.
   B.   Signature Validation. No permit is valid unless it is issued by the
building official, or his or her authorized designee or his or her designee.
The building official, or his or her authorized designee's signature may be
executed on or attached to every permit, or the building official, or his or
her authorized designee may designate one or more inspectors or other employees
to validate a permit by affixing their signatures thereto.
   C.   Approved Plans. The building official, or his or her authorized
designee or his or her designee must stamp or otherwise endorse in writing all
sets of approved plans, specifications, shop drawings, and other required
documents with the word "approved". One set of such approved plans and
documents will be retained for the permanent property file records of the
Village and one or more sets will be returned to the applicant. The permittee
must maintain a complete set of approved plans and documents at the building
site that must be open to inspection and review by the village's authorized
inspectors at all reasonable times during construction. Other sets of approved
plans will be forwarded to such other agencies as necessary or required.
   D.   Compliance Required Regardless Of Plan Approval. Plans approved by the
building official, or his or her authorized designee are approved with the
intent that the plans and specifications comply in all respects to this title.
Any omissions or errors on the approved plans or within the specifications will
not relieve the applicant of his or her responsibility to comply with all
applicable requirements of this title and with every other applicable law.
   E.   Posting of Permit. The building permit must be posted in a visible
position on the street side of the structure under permit during the entire
time of the construction operations. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-7: PERMIT CONDITIONS:
   A.   Payment of Fees. No permit will be issued until all fees required for
such permit have been paid.
   B.   Required Subdivision and Utilities. No permit will be issued for the
construction of any principal building until the village engineer has certified
that the property can be properly served with village sewer and water mains if
available or health department approval for a well and septic system. The
village engineer may release the property for permit if construction
improvement plans have been approved and the owner of the property, or his or
her agent, has guaranteed the installation of all required construction
improvements with surety bonds or other certified documents acceptable to the
village, conforming to the requirements of the Village of Hampshire.
   C.   Other Agency or Department Approvals. No permit will be issued until
required approvals from other agencies or departments are received by the
building department.
   D.   Permit as License Only: Compliance With Title. A permit is only a
license to proceed with the work. No permit is, nor may be construed or applied
to be, authority to violate, cancel, or set aside any of the provisions of this
title, except as specifically provided by approved modification or legally
granted variations as described in the application and supporting documents.
   E.   Compliance with Permit. All work must conform to the approved
application and plans for which the permit has been issued and any approved
amendments thereto, except that such applications, plans, and amendments may
not be construed or applied to authorize any violation of this code.
   F.   Compliance with Site Plan. All new work must be located and constructed
strictly in accordance with the approved site plan.
   G.   Change in Site Plan. No site plan or part thereof may be changed,
increased, or diminished in area from that shown on the official approved site
plan unless a revised site plan showing such changes, accompanied by the
necessary affidavit of the owner or applicant, has been filed and approved by
the appropriate village authorities.
   H.   Completion or Removal of Structure. If a structure is not completed,
for whatever cause, then the incomplete structure, including all foundations
and other underground installations, must be removed and the site restored to
its original condition as provided in this title. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-8: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Required Inspections. The building official, or his or her authorized
designee or his or her duly authorized inspectors will make all of the
following inspections (not all inclusive) and all such additional inspections
as the building official, or his or her authorized designee deems necessary to
enforce the provisions of this title, the Hampshire Zoning Regulations, and
other applicable codes and ordinances:
      1.   After excavation has been made preparatory to any underground
installation such as footings, foundations, sewers, water lines, or other
underground systems and pre-pour concrete.
      2.   After installation of underground systems and before any
backfilling.
      3.   After installation of drain tile, framing, ducts for heating and
ventilation, vents, chimneys, plumbing, electrical system, hearth framing,
fireplace firebox, flues and chimneys, prefabricated fire places, fire
sprinkler systems, fuel gas piping, insulation, fire stopping and other
installations that may be concealed in walls, floors, ceilings, attics, or
other inaccessible locations and before such work has been covered by plaster,
wallboard, furring, or any other material.
      4.   After installation of a central heating and cooling plant and its
accessories and before it is placed into operation, emergency back-up power
generators, accessory structures, and hardscape.
      5.   After all construction and cleanup work has been completed, property
restored, and drainage patterns completed, and an occupancy permit has been
requested.
      6.   Inspections that may be required and are not listed or as may be
required for a project.
   B.   Request by Permittee. The permittee must request an inspection from the
Village at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the inspection. No such
request may be made until the work and the site are in full compliance with all
standards applicable to the work for which the inspection is requested. The
same requirements apply to all re-inspections. One re-inspection will be
allowed at no charge. Subsequent re-inspections will be charged at the rate
established in the Village fee schedule. "Re-inspection" means any additional
inspection of the same work previously inspected and not approved.
   C.   Exposure of Covered Work. If any work is covered prior to proper
inspection of it, then the building official, or his or her authorized designee
may require that such work be uncovered at the permittee's expense so that a
proper inspection can be made.
   D.   Inspection of Existing Conditions. The building official, or his or her
authorized designee or his or her duly authorized inspectors may to enter on
all property and structures in the village during all regular village business
hours and all other reasonable times for the purpose of inspecting such
property and structures. No person may deny access to any premises for such
inspections.
5-1-9: TIME LIMITS:
   A.   Building Permits: Restoration. Any building permit issued pursuant to
this title will be null and void:
      1.   If the work authorized by such permit has not commenced within six
months after the date of issuance of such permit; or
      2.   If such work has begun but is suspended or abandoned for six months
or longer; or
      3.   If work is not completed within one year or such longer time as may
be stated in the permit.
The building official, or his or her authorized designee may, but is not to,
extend any such time limit for six months for good cause shown, after written
request for such extension and payment of a fee as may be set from time to time
by the village. The building official, or his or her authorized designee may
grant no more than two such extensions.
If a permit has expired and is not renewed, then all previous construction, if
any, must be removed and the property restored to its original condition, and
all fees paid therefor are forfeited to the village and the permit is null and
void. If the permittee does not remove all previous construction and restore
the property to its original condition, then the village may complete such
removal and restoration and recover all of its costs and expenses by the filing
of a lien on the property or by any other legal action permitted by law.
   B.   Applications. Any permit application pending for more than six months
for which no permit has been issued will be returned to the applicant and
deemed null and void. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-10: CANCELLATION OF PERMIT; RETURN OF FEES:
After written request therefor from the permittee, the building official, or
his or her authorized designee may cancel any permit issued under this title
and return the permit fees paid therefore provided that no development of any
kind has commenced pursuant to such permit and provided, further, that the
village will retain fifty percent (50%) of such permit fees to reimburse the
village's administrative costs and expenses. This section does not authorize,
and may not be construed or applied to authorize, the return of any plan review
fees. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-11: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The building official, or his or her authorized designee may revoke any permit
or approval issued under the provisions of this title for any of the following
reasons:
   A.   Any false statement or misrepresentation of fact in the application or
on the plans and other documents on which the permit or approval was based;
   B.   Any violation of any applicable provision of this title or any other
code or ordinance; or
   C.   Any material deviation from any approved plan, drawing, or
specification. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-12: STOP WORK ORDERS:
   A.   Authorization. The building official, or his or her authorized designee
or his or her authorized designee is hereby authorized to issue and post stop
work orders to stop work on any building, structure, or premises under any of
the following circumstances:
      1.   When work is being done without a building permit;
      2.   When false or incomplete information has been given to obtain a
permit;
      3.   When a permit has been issued but the check for payment of the
permit fees has been refused or otherwise not cleared;
      4.   When work is being performed contrary to the provisions of this
title or other applicable village codes or ordinances;
      5.   When the permittee does not take prompt action to correct violations
as provided in section 9-1-14 of this chapter;
      6.   When work is being done in an unsafe or dangerous manner;
      7.   When the conditions on the premises are unsafe or dangerous either
to those working on the premises or to the general public in vehicles or afoot,
or
      8.   For any other good or just cause as determined by the building
official, or his or her authorized designee in his sole distraction that would
warrant the issuance of a stop work order to enforce village codes or
ordinances or to protect public safety, health, or welfare.
   B.   Issuance and Effect of Stop Work Order. The building official, or his
or her authorized designee, or his or her authorized designee, may issue a stop
work order either orally or in writing. If the stop work order is first issued
orally, then it must be followed with a written stop work order within forty-
eight (48) hours after such oral order. After a stop work order has been
issued, whether orally or in writing, all work or action subject to such order
must be stopped immediately. The stop work order may be given to the permittee,
to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work. A copy of the stop work
order will be posted on the premises.
   C.   Unlawful Continuance. It is unlawful for any person to do any work or
to take any action in violation of a stop work order. Any person, other than
the building official, or his or her authorized designee or his or her
authorized designee, who removes a posted stop work order or who continues any
work in or about the building, structure, or premises after a stop work order
has been issued and posted, is guilty of a violation of this section and is
subject to prosecution and fines as provided in this chapter. Notwithstanding
the provisions of this subsection, the permittee, after approval of the
building official, or his or her authorized designee, may do such work as is
necessary to protect the public health and safety and to correct the safety
hazards, code violations, or other defects complained of in the stop work
order. The building official, or his or her authorized designee will set forth
the conditions under which such approval will be given to proceed.
   D.   Removal of Stop Work Order. A stop work order may be removed only when
the building official, or his or her authorized designee, or his or her
authorized designee, is satisfied that the safety hazards have been rectified,
that the violations have been corrected, that the proper building permits have
been issued, that such other action has been taken or is forthcoming to resolve
the original complaints, and that proper cash bonds or other guarantees have
been filed with the village. After payment of the any required fee, as provided
in the municipal code, written release of the stop work order will be given to
all parties who had previously received the original stop work order. The stop
work order then will be removed by the building official, or his or her
authorized designee, or his or her authorized designee and the work may
proceed. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-13: CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   New Buildings. No new primary building or structure may be used or
occupied, in whole or in part, until a certificate of occupancy has been issued
certifying that the building or structure has been completed in accordance with
the approved permit. The building official may, in his/her sole discretion,
require a certificate of occupancy for any new accessory building or structure
prior to use.
   B.   Alterations; Use Changes.
      1.   Non-Residential. No part of any primary non-residential building or
structure hereafter enlarged, extended, altered, or changed, or in which a use,
tenant or ownership has changed, may be used or occupied in such part until a
certificate of use and occupancy has been issued by the building official, or
his or her authorized designee certifying that the work has been completed in
accordance with the provisions of the approved permit or that the use is
properly authorized by, and in compliance with, applicable law and any approved
fire alarm system or fire sprinkler system as required by this code has been
installed, inspected, tested and placed in service. In the case of a change of
use, tenant, or ownership without work requiring a permit, a new certificate of
occupancy is also required; provided, the requirement for a new certificate of
occupancy due solely to a change in tenant or owner may be waived in the
discretion of the building official if there exists a final certificate of
occupancy issued within six months prior of such change.
      2.   Residential. The building official may, in his/her sole discretion,
apply the provisions in 5-1-13(B)(1) to any residential building or structure.
      3.   Accessory Buildings. The building official may, in his/her sole
discretion, apply the provisions in 5-1-13(B)(1) to any accessory building or
structure.
   C.   Temporary Certificate of Occupancy.
      1.   General. When a building or project has been completed but, for good
cause, minor building and site improvements that are affected by weather
conditions, such as seeding or sod, final grading, asphalt or concrete work, or
the like, have not been completed, the building official, or his or her
authorized designee may issue a temporary certificate of occupancy, but only
after a request therefore, payment of the required fee, and posting of the
required bond. No temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued except after
a finding by the building official, or his or her authorized designee that such
permit will not adversely affect the health, welfare, or safety of the
occupants or the general public. A final certificate of occupancy is required
for all parts of the premises after completion of all work.
      2.   Business, Office, And Industrial. The building official, or his or
her authorized designee may issue a separate temporary certificate of occupancy
authorizing use and occupation to conduct business in a business, office, or
industrial structure, but only after a request therefore, payment of the
required fee and bond, and testing and approval of the fire suppression and
alarm systems granted in the discretion of the village's fire department and
building official, or his or her authorized designee; and then only if the
building official, or his or her authorized designee determines that such work
will pose no immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of workers or
of the general public. No such temporary occupancy permit creates or gives rise
to, or may be construed or applied to create or give rise to, any right in the
permittee to further occupy the structure. Every such permit must state that it
does not create any right to a final occupancy permit and that all work
undertaken pursuant to such permit is at the permittee's sole risk. No use or
occupation for conducting business is permitted except after issuance of such a
temporary occupancy permit.
   D.   Permission. The building official, or his or her authorized designee,
at his or her discretion and only after a specific request from the permittee,
may give permission to the owner or his designee to place inventory, fixtures,
racking, material, stock, other types of inventory, or the like in a business,
office, or industrial building. This permission may be granted only if the
placement of the materials will not limit the completion of construction or
inspections and provided the fire suppression and alarm systems have been
installed, tested, and accepted by the village fire department for granting of
such permission. This permission does not allow occupation of the building or
area to conduct business of any kind under any circumstances.
   E.   Fees. The fee for issuance of a temporary or final certificate of
occupancy shall be as set from time to time by the village board of trustees.
(Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-14: UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND PREMISES:
   A.   Definition; Removal Required. Any structure or premises that is, or
hereafter becomes, unsanitary, deficient in exit facilities, a fire hazard, or
an attractive nuisance, or that is otherwise dangerous to human life, safety,
or the public welfare (such conditions hereinafter collectively referred to as
"unsafe") is deemed an unsafe structure or premises. Every unsafe structure
must be taken down and removed, in whole or in part, or made safe and secure,
as the building official, or his or her authorized designee deems necessary or
as provided in this title. A vacant structure with unguarded or open doors,
windows, or other openings and accessible to the general public is an
attractive nuisance, a fire hazard, and unsafe within the meaning of this
section.
   B.   Examination of Unsafe Structures and Premises. The building official,
or his or her authorized designee will examine every structure and premises
reported as unsafe and will prepare a report of his or her findings.
   C.   Notice of Unsafe Conditions. If an unsafe condition is found in a
structure or premises, then the building official, or his or her authorized
designee will serve written notice on the owner, the owner's agent, or the
person in control of the structure or premises, describing the unsafe
conditions found and specifying the required repairs, improvements, or actions
to be taken to render the structure or premises safe or secured, or requiring
the unsafe structure or portion thereof to be demolished, or such other action
as is necessary to remove the hazard within a stipulated time. Such notice must
require the person thus notified to declare, to the building official, or his
or her authorized designee, his or her acceptance or rejection of the terms of
the notice.
   D.   Restoration Of Unsafe Structure. An unsafe structure may be restored to
a safe condition. If the cost of the repairs or reconstruction necessary to put
the structure into a safe condition is estimated by the building official, or
his or her authorized designee to exceed fifty percent (50%) of the fair market
value of the structure in its un-restored condition, then the structure must be
made to comply in all respects with the provisions of this title, the Hampshire
Zoning Regulations, and all other applicable codes and ordinances for the
construction of a new structure, including without limitation the installation
of fire and life safety systems required pursuant to this title.
   E.   Posting Unsafe Notice. If the owner, owner's agent, or person in
control of the unsafe structure or premises cannot be found, after diligent
search, then the notice of unsafe condition will be sent by registered or
certified mail to the last known address of one of those persons and a copy of
such notice will be posted in a conspicuous place on the structure or premises.
   F.   Disregard Of Unsafe Notice. After refusal or neglect of the person
served with a notice of unsafe condition to comply with the requirements of the
notice to abate the unsafe condition, the village may institute the appropriate
legal action to compel compliance with the order. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-15: EMERGENCY MEASURES:
   A.   Vacating Structures. When, in the opinion of the building official, or
his or her authorized designee, there is an immediate danger of failure or
collapse of a structure or any part thereof that would endanger life, or when
any building or structure has collapsed and life is endangered by the continued
occupation of the structure, the building official, or his or her authorized
designee may order and require the occupants thereof to vacate the structure
forthwith. In that case, the building official, or his or her authorized
designee will cause to be posted, at each entrance to such structure, a notice
reading "DANGER" and stating that the structure is unsafe, and its use or
occupancy has been prohibited. It is unlawful thereafter for any person to
enter such structure except for the purpose of making required repairs or
demolishing the structure.
   B.   Temporary Safeguards. When, in the opinion of the building official, or
his or her authorized designee, there is an immediate danger to life, property,
or the safety of the general public by a collapse or failure of a structure or
by other unsafe conditions on or in the structure or premises, the building
official, or his or her authorized designee immediately may cause the necessary
work to be done to render such structure or premises or parts thereof
temporarily safe or inaccessible to the general public.
   C.   Closing of Streets and Buildings. When necessary for public safety, the
building official, or his or her authorized designee may close sidewalks,
streets, buildings, and structures temporarily and prohibit them from being
used.
   D.   Emergency Work. For the purposes of enforcement of this section, the
building official, or his or her authorized designee may employ and obtain the
necessary labor, equipment, services, and materials, whether through existing
village resources or through outside contractors and vendors, to perform the
required work as expeditiously as possible.
   E.   Costs of Emergency Work. All costs incurred by the village in the
performance of emergency work pursuant to this section will be billed to the
owner of the premises. If the owner of the premises does not, or cannot,
promptly pay said bill, then the Village may pursue any and all appropriate
legal action against the owner for the recovery of such costs, including
without limitation causing a lien for such costs to be filed against the
property. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-16: MOVING BUILDINGS:
   A.   Mover's License Required: Fee, Bond. It shall be unlawful for any
person, except a licensed house mover, to remove or move any building within
the corporate limits of the village, and every person shall' before engaging in
such occupation obtain a license therefore from the village clerk. No license
shall be granted before the party applying therefore shall have paid a fee
("moving license fee") as provided in section
1-12-3 of the municipal code and shall have provided a bond in the sum of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) with good and sufficient sureties, to be approved
by the building official, or his or her authorized designee. Said bond shall be
conditioned, among other things, that said party shall pay any and all damages
which may happen to any tree, pavement, street or sidewalk, or any poles, wires
or boxes, or any other property belonging to the village, whether said damages
or injury shall be inflicted by said party or its agents, employees or workmen,
and that said party shall indemnify and hold the Village harmless against all
liabilities, judgments, costs and expenses which may in any wise accrue against
the village in consequence of the granting of such license or permit
hereinafter provided, and shall in all things strictly comply with the
conditions of his permit. The party securing such a permit shall also be
responsible for any and all acts of negligence of omission and be responsible
for all damages or destruction to public and private property alike caused by
its negligence.
   B.   License Issuance: Moving Permit: Fee. Upon payment of the moving
license fee, execution of said bond and its acceptance by the village
president, a license shall be issued by the office of the village clerk, and
the person so licensed shall in every instance, before removing any building,
obtain a permit so to do so from the village clerk, and shall pay a permit fee
as provided in section
1-12-3 of the municipal code. Such permit shall, in every case, be preceded by
a written application therefore, in which is set forth:
      1.   The present location of the building to be moved;
      2.   The proposed route over which it is to be moved;
      3.   Its final location; and
      4.   The length of time granted for the moving of the same.
The application shall be signed by the applicant and countersigned by the
village manager, whereupon the said village clerk shall issue a permit stating
therein specifically all of the conditions which are to govern the said house
mover in the moving of the building, prescribing the route to be taken, and
limiting the time for the removal; provided, however, that these sections
herein of this chapter, shall not apply to the moving of buildings from one
point upon any lot to any other point upon the same lot where, in such removal,
the building or buildings so moved shall not be moved in, over, or upon any of
the streets, alleys, avenues, or other public places property in the village.
   C.   Warning Devices Required. On each and every night while any building
remains on any street, alley, or other public place, such property, the house
mover shall place, or cause to be placed, at each corner of such the building,
a red light which shall be so placed at dusk and kept burning and exposed to
view until sunrise in addition to any other requirements of any statute of the
State of Illinois.
   D.   Failure To Obtain Permit or License; Penalty Any person who shall move
any building upon any street, avenue, or alley or other public place property
in the village, without having first procured a license and permit as
hereinbefore provided, shall violate any of the provisions of this Title, shall
be deemed guilty of an unlawful act, and shall be subject to penalties as
provided in this Title. Any building being moved by such a person in without a
license and a permit on any of the streets, avenues, alleys, or other public
places in the village by such licensed person not having the required permit
shall be deemed a nuisance.
   E.   Exceeding Time Limit; Penalty, The owner of any building, or the
contractor for its removal, either or both of them, who shall suffer any such
cause a building to be or remain on any of the village's streets or alleys, or
upon any of the public property of the village, for any time longer than may be
specified in the removal permit, shall be deemed guilty of an unlawful act, and
shall be subject to penalties as provided in this chapter, and such building
shall be deemed a nuisance subject to abatement by the village authorities.
(Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-17: BUILDING NUMBERS AND ADDRESSES:
   A.   Numbering All buildings fronting upon public streets, avenues and
thoroughfares within the village shall be numbered in accordance with the
system of numbers, and the official house numbering map of the village as
designated from time to time by resolution of the board of trustees and as
located in the village hall, and the numbers marked on said map for that
purpose shall be adopted as the basis for numbering said buildings. The numbers
on said map set opposite the respective lots on said Map are adopted as the
number of the building location on said lot, or in case there is more than one
building on any lot, the number found on said map nearest the main entrance of
said building shall be adopted as the number for said building. The number
assigned, and street named used shall be based upon the front door or the
building, and not on the front as designed in the zoning regulations.
   B.   Size of Figures. Each of the figures for said numbers shall be not less
than four inches (4") in length, and so marked and located as to be distinct
and easily read from the public street side of said building. (Ord. 22-27, 10-
6-2022)
5-1-18: DEMOLITIONS:
   A.   Definition. For the purposes of this section 5-1-18, "demolition" shall
mean any act or process within the control of the owner of any building or
structure that:
      1.   Results in a change to the footprint of the building or structure;
      2.   Removes or destroys the structure or building;
      3.   Removes, destroys, or otherwise involves construction activity
impacting one thousand (1,000) square feet or more of the interior more of the
interior of the structure or building; or
      4.   Removes or destroys fifty (50) percent or more of the "gross floor
area," as defined in the Zoning Chapter of the municipal code, of the structure
or building.
   B.   Demolition Permit Required. A demolition permit from the building
official, or his or her authorized designee shall be required for all
demolitions.
   C.   Demolition Site Management Plan.
      1.   Principal Buildings and Structures:
         a.   For demolitions of up to and including 500 square feet of the
gross floor area of a principal building or structure, the applicant shall
submit a demolition site management plan as part of the demolition permit
application if the building official, or his or her authorized designee
determines that a plan is necessary to adequately monitor and regulate the
specific demolition.
         b.   For demolitions of over five hundred (500) square feet of the
gross floor area of a principal building or structure, the applicant shall
submit a demolition site management plan as part of the demolition permit
application.
      2.   Accessory Buildings and Structures:
         a.   A demolition site management plan is not required for demolitions
of under 151 square feet or fewer of gross floor area of an accessory building
or structure.
         b.   For demolitions of one hundred and fifty one (151) square feet up
to and including five hundred (500) square feet of the gross floor area of an
accessory building or structure, the applicant may submit a demolition site
management plan as part of the demolition permit application if the building
official, or his or her authorized designee determines that a plan is necessary
to adequately monitor and regulate the specific demolition.
         c.   For demolitions of over five hundred (500) square feet of the
gross floor area of an accessory building or structure, the applicant shall
submit a demolition site management plan as part of the demolition permit
application.
   D.   Demolition Site Management Plan; Approval; Content. The required
demolition site management plan shall be reviewed and approved by the building
official, or his or her authorized designee prior to the issuance of any
demolition permit. Every demolition site management plan shall, at a minimum,
include the following:
      1.   A scaled sketch plan map of the site depicting the structure, or
portion thereof, to be demolished;
      2.   A depiction of the on-site access routes for vehicles, equipment,
and personnel;
      3.   A depiction of the on-site location of dumpsters or other waste
containers, construction fencing, public and private utilities, and storm water
management fencing or other storm water management devices;
      4.   A description of dust control measures to take place during
structure removal, other demolition activities, and any other significant dust-
generating activities;
      5.   A tree survey showing the location and size of trees, on the site
and the proposed location for tree protection fencing, if necessary;
      6.   A description of off-site access routes and the location of Parking
for demolition equipment, hauling trucks, crew member vehicles, and additional
equipment;
      7.   A description of site-specific measures or features, not otherwise
required in in this Title, proposed to minimize adverse impacts of the proposed
demolition activities on neighboring properties, public facilities, and public
and private utilities and property;
      8.   A description of any other measures specifically required by the
building official, or his or her authorized designee to reasonably minimize
adverse impacts of the demolition activities on neighboring properties, public
facilities, and public and private utilities and property; and
      9.   A restoration plan and schedule for repairing and restoring, to
village standards, any public property, streets, sidewalks, rights-of way,
parkways, utilities, and any private property, utilities, and structures
impacted or damaged, by or as a result of, the proposed demolition activities.
   E.   Demolition Permit Fees. The fees for demolition permits required
pursuant to this Section shall be those established and listed in the
comprehensive fee schedule of the municipal code. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-19: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect, construct, alter,
extend, repair, replace, remove, demolish, move, use, or occupy any building,
structure, equipment, device, or system regulated by this title, or cause same
to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this
title or any other applicable code or ordinance of the village or other
agencies of jurisdiction. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-20: NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS:
The building official, or his or her authorized designee will serve a written
notice of violation, or order to comply, on the person, firm, or corporation
responsible for the erection, construction, alteration, extension, repair,
replacement, removal, demolition, move, use, or occupancy of any building or
structure performed:
   A.   In violation of the provisions of this title;
   B.   In violation of any approved document or plan filed with the village to
secure a building permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this
title; or
   C.   In violation of any applicable ordinance, statute, or law of the
village or any other agency having legal jurisdiction over the performance of
the work being done.
The notice of violation, or order to comply, will direct the discontinuance of
the illegal action or condition and the abatement of the violations, and will
provide a time period for discontinuance or abatement which is appropriate for
the condition. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-21: PROSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS:
If a notice of violation or order to comply is not complied with promptly, then
the building official, or his or her authorized designee will issue a stop work
order as provided for in this Title. The stop work order may not be removed
until all violations complained of have been corrected and the fee as provided
for in the municipal code has been paid. If the permittee or his or her agents
refuse or are unable to correct any violation, then the village will institute
the appropriate proceedings at law or in equity to restrain, correct, or abate
such violations or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful act
complained of in the violation notice. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-22: PENALTIES:
   A.   General Penalty. Any person, firm, corporation, or entity which
violates any of the provisions of this title or other applicable codes or
ordinances of the village, or who disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to
comply with, or who resists the enforcement of, any of the provisions of this
title, applicable village codes and ordinances, the approved plans and
documents of the building permit, or any certificate or other permit issued
under the provisions of this title, shall be guilty of an offense and punished
by a fine of not less than one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) or more than
seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each provision of this title
violated. Each day on which such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
   B.   Special Penalty for No Permit. In addition to every other penalty
provided by law, any person, firm, corporation, or entity that undertakes any
work for which a permit is required by this title without first having secured
a permit authorizing such work will be fined a sum of money at least equal to
two times the full amount of the building or other permit for such work. Such
fine is in addition to the required fee.
   C.   Stop Work Orders. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine
of not less than one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) or more than seven
hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense payable to the village.
Each day on which such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.". (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-23: ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS:
The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed does not preclude the village
from instituting appropriate action to prevent unlawful construction, or to
restrain, correct, or abate a violation, or to prevent illegal occupancy of a
building, structure, or premises, or to stop an illegal act, conduct, business,
or use of a building or structure on or about any premises. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-
2022)
5-1-24: PENALTIES AS NOTED IN OTHER ARTICLES OF THIS TITLE:
If penalties are listed in other Articles and Sections of this Title then those
penalties shall supersede the penalties as listed in this Section
5-1-22. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-25: INTERPRETATIONS; APPEALS:
   A.   Authority of the building official, or his or her authorized designee.
The building official, or his or her authorized designee may render
interpretations of the provisions of this Chapter and of any rule, regulation,
or condition issued or imposed pursuant to it.
   B.   Purpose Of Interpretations. The interpretation authority established by
this section is intended to recognize that the provisions of this title cannot
possibly address every specific situation to which they may have to be applied.
Many such situations, however, can be readily addressed by an interpretation of
the specific provisions of this title in light of the general and specific
purposes for which those provisions have been enacted. Because the
interpretation authority herein established is an administrative rather than a
legislative authority, it is not intended to add to or to change the essential
content of this title, but rather is intended only to allow authoritative
application of that content to specific cases.
   C.   Procedure. Any person who seeks an interpretation must file a written
application therefor with the village manager stating specifically the title
provisions at issue and the facts and circumstances related to such person's
request for an interpretation. The building official, or his or her authorized
designee will make a decision in writing on such interpretation and provide
that written decision to the applicant within thirty (30) days after the
application is filed. Any failure of the building official, or his or her
authorized designee to act within thirty (30) days, or within such further time
to which the applicant may agree, will be deemed to be a decision denying the
application rendered on the day immediately after that thirty (30)-day period.
   D.   Appeals.
      1.   Appeals Noted in Other Articles of this Title. If appeals processes
are listed in other Articles and Sections of this Title, then those appeals
processes shall supersede Section
5-1-25.
      2.   Right to Appeal. A decision by the building official, or his or her
authorized designee on an interpretation under this section, or on the
application of a provision of this title, may be appealed to the village board
of trustees by the filing of a written application for an appeal with the
village manager within twenty (20) days of the decision of the building
official.
      3.   Scheduling. Within ten (10) days after an appeal has been filed
pursuant to this section, the building official, or his or her authorized
designee must set a date and time for a meeting before the village board of
trustees. The meeting must take place within thirty (thirty (30)) days after
the appeal has been filed.
      4.   Postponement. The appellant has the right to request one
postponement of the meeting. If a request is made, then the building official,
or his or her authorized designee must set the meeting for a date no more than
thirty (thirty (30)) days after the first-established date.
      5.   Meeting Procedures. The village board of trustees may adopt
procedures governing the procedure for its meetings. Those procedures must be
consistent with the following standards:
         a.   The procedures need not require compliance with strict rules of
evidence but must mandate that only relevant information be received.
         b.   Meetings must be open to the public. There is no requirement that
members of the public be allowed to speak at a meeting.
         c.   The appellant, the appellant's representative, the village, and
any person whose interests are directly affected must be given an opportunity
to be heard and may submit documents in support of their position.
         d.   At a meeting, the village board of trustees may receive testimony
and review documents and other relevant materials.
         e.   The building official, or his or her authorized designee may
participate fully in all proceedings but has no vote on any decision.
      6.   Decisions. The village board of trustees must issue a written
decision within fifteen (15) days after the conclusion of the meeting on
appeal. That decision must be transmitted promptly to the appellant. A failure
of the village board of trustees to issue a written decision within fifteen
(15) days will be deemed a denial of the appeal. All decisions by the village
board of trustees are final. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-1-26: FEES:
   A.   General. No permit to begin work for new construction, alterations,
replacement, removal, demolition, relocation, or other building construction
operations or work requiring a building permit will be issued until after the
fees required for that permit have been paid in full to the village. In
addition, no amendment to a permit for which an additional fee must be paid
will be approved until after the additional fee has been paid in full to the
village.
   B.   Additional Fees. The payment of the fees for the construction,
alteration, replacement, removal, demolition, relocation or other building
construction operations and for all other work done in connection with or
concurrently with the work contemplated by a building permit does not relieve
the applicant or holder of the permit from the obligation to pay all other fees
prescribed by law or ordinance.
   C.   Site Performance; Cash Deposit.
      1.   Deposit Requirement. The village may require a site/performance cash
deposit depending upon the project.
      2.   Village Right to Draw on Deposit. The village has the right at all
times, at its option, to draw on the site/performance cash deposit to reimburse
the village for the costs, including without limitation legal fees and
administrative expenses, actually incurred and reasonably estimated to be
incurred by the village in exercising any of its rights under this title in the
event:
         a.   The applicant undertakes any work in violation of any provision
of this title or of any permit issued or plan approved pursuant to this title;
or
         b.   The applicant fails or refuses to complete the work authorized by
any permit issued under this title in accordance with all plans approved in
connection with said permit.
      3.   Replacement of Deposit. If the village draws on the site/performance
cash deposit, then the applicant must replenish the deposit to the full amount
required by this section within five days after demand therefor is made to the
applicant in writing by the village. Any failure of the applicant to fully
replenish the deposit will result in cancellation of the related permit, which
permit will not be reissued thereafter except after the filing of a new
application and paying the required fees therefor.
      4.   Return of Unused Deposit. The village will promptly return any
unused portion of the site/performance cash deposit to the applicant, without
interest, for all work other than a temporary sign after proper completion of
all work.
      5.   Forfeiture of Deposit. A site/performed cash deposit posted pursuant
to subsection 1 of this section shall be forfeited to the village in full under
any of the following conditions:
         a.   if the permittee does not request a final inspection prior to the
expiration of the permit for which the deposit was made;
         b.   if the permittee does not cure all defects in the performance of
the work pursuant to the permit for which the deposit was posted within thirty
(30) days after the specified date for completion; or
         c.   if the permittee occupies the building or any portion of the
building without written permission or certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 22-27,
10-6-2022)
ARTICLE II
INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Adoption of International Building Code
5-2-2: International Building Code On File
5-2-3: Amendments To The International Building Code
5-2-1: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
The International Building Code, 2018 Edition, as promulgated and published by
the International Code Council, Inc. ("International Building Code"), is
adopted by reference by the Village of Hampshire as modified in Section 9-2-
3 for the purpose of regulating the erection, construction, enlargement,
equipment, alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion, use,
height, area and maintenance of all buildings and structures in the Village of
Hampshire. The International Building Code shall apply to all buildings and
structures within the Village, except for single-family detached dwellings and
two-family dwellings and all buildings and structures accessory thereto to the
extent that such dwellings are expressly regulated by the International
Residential Code, as adopted by the Village and amended pursuant to Article 3
of this Title. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-2-2: INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE ON FILE:
Complete printed copies of the International Building Code are available for
public use and inspection at the Office of the Village Clerk, Village Hall,
Hampshire, Illinois. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-2-3: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
The International Building Code, adopted by reference pursuant to this Chapter
1 is amended as set forth in this Section 4-1-7. Subsequent section numbers
used in this Section shall refer to the like numbered sections of the
International Building Code.
   101 Delete "[NAME OF JURISDICTION]" and replace with "The Village of
Hampshire, Illinois."
   101.2.3 Delete the term "International Plumbing Code" and replace with
"Illinois Plumbing License Law, 225 ILCS 320/0.01 et seq., and the regulations
adopted thereunder ("Illinois Plumbing Law"), as adopted by the Village and
amended pursuant to Chapter 6 of this Title. Insert after the first sentence:
"Every reference to the ICC International Plumbing Code in the International
Building Code shall mean and refer to the Illinois Plumbing Law." Delete the
entire last sentence of the section without substitution.
   101 4.8 Add the following new Section 101.4.8:
   “101.4.8 Electrical. The provisions of the 2017 Edition of the National
Electric Code (NFPA 70) as adopted by the Village and amended pursuant to
Article 7 of this Title ("Electric Code"), shall apply to the installation of
electrical systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment,
appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances thereto. Every reference to
the ICC Electrical Code in the International Building Code shall mean and refer
to the National Electric Code.”
   101 4.9 Add the following new Section 101.4.9:
   “101.4.9 International Building Code Commentary. The narratives in the
commentary to International Building Code shall apply, as a supplement, to the
International Building Code.”
   101.3 Building: Delete numbers 1 and 2, then renumber to read:
   “1.   Oil derricks.
   2.   Retaining walls that are not over 4 feet (1219 mm) in height measured
from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a
surcharge or impounding class I, II or IIIA liquids.
   3.   Water tanks supported directly on grade if the capacity does not exceed
5,000 gallons (18,925 I) and the ratio of height to diameter or width does not
exceed 2:1.
   4.   Sidewalks and driveways not more than thirty (30) inches (762 mm) above
adjacent grade, and not over any basement or story below and are not part of an
accessible route and not in the parkway area.
   5.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops, and
similar finish work.
   6.   Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and
scenery.
   7.   Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a group R-3 occupancy that
are capable of holding less than 24 inches (610 mm) of water and/or inflatable,
temporary swimming pools of any water depth, do not exceed 5,000 gallons
(18,925 I), and are installed entirely above ground.
   8.   Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agricultural
purposes, not including service systems.
   9.   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to detached one- and
two-family dwellings.
   10.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall that do not project more
than 54 inches (1372 mm) from the exterior wall and do not require additional
support of group R-3 and U occupancies.
   11.   Nonfixed and moveable fixtures, cases, racks, counters, and partitions
not over 5 feet 9 inches (1753 mm) in height."
   (Rest of section remains the same.)
   Add new Section 105.8 as follows:
   "105.8 Bond. For any building permit to be issued for construction
activities at a location where public improvements at or adjacent to said
location, including but not limited to streets, paving, curbs and gutters,
sidewalks, driveway aprons, trees, landscaping, manholes, fire hydrants,
auxiliary valves, buffalo boxes, storm and sanitary sewers, sump pump
connections, street lights and wiring, and/or final grading, have previously
been constructed and/or installed, and have been certified as complete and/or
have been accepted by the village, the application for issuance of a building
permit shall be accompanied by a bond, in an amount set by the village
administrator, subject to any schedule of amounts that may be established from
time to time by the board of trustees, to secure against loss occasioned by
damage to any of said public improvements. Said bond, or the balance remaining
after application of said bond to any such damages, may be released to the
applicant upon issuance by the village of a certificate of occupancy for the
new building."
   Delete Section 109.4 and replace as follows:
   "109.4 Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance. Any person who commences any
work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system
before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to one hundred (100)
percent of the usual permit fee in addition to the required permit fee. In the
event that any building is undertaken without compliance with the above
referenced fee schedule after thirty (30) days when notified of noncompliance,
then and in that event, the responsible owner, contractor, or both, shall be
liable for a fine of not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and one hundred (100) percent of the
usual permit fee in addition to the required permit fee. Each day a violation
continues shall be deemed a separate offense."
   Delete Section 109.6 and replace as follows:
   “109.6 Refunds. The code official shall authorize the refunding of fees as
follows:
   1.   The full amount of any fee paid hereunder which was erroneously paid or
collected.
   2.   Not more than 90 percent of the permit fee paid when no work has been
done under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
   3.   No part of the plan review fee paid shall be refunded when the plan
review has been completed and the application for permit is withdrawn. The code
official shall not authorize the refunding of any fee paid, except upon written
application filed by the original permittee not later than 180 days after the
date of fee payment."
   Delete Section 113.1 and replace as follows:
   "113.1 General. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or
determinations made by the building official relative to the application and
interpretation of this code, the village board of trustees shall be the board
of appeals. Therefore, for the purposes of this code, the board of appeals
shall be construed to mean the village board of trustees. The building official
shall be an ex officio member of said board but shall have no vote on any
matter before the board. When a quorum is present, the board shall modify,
reverse, or uphold the decision of the code official by a concurring vote of
the majority of members present at the meeting. The board of appeals shall
adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and shall render all
decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the
building official. The building official shall take immediate action in
accordance with the decision of the board."
   Delete Section 113.3 in its entirety.
   Delete Section 114.4 and replace as follows:
   "114.4 Violation Penalties, Court Costs and Legal Fees. Any person who
violates a provision of this code or fails to comply with any of the
requirements thereof or who erects, constructs, alters or repairs a building or
structure in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of
the building official, or of a permit or certificate issued under the
provisions of this code, shall be subject to a fine of not less than seventy-
five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each
day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense. In the event
noncompliance with this code necessitates litigation, any person who violates a
provision of this code shall be liable for court costs and reasonable
attorney's fees incurred by the village of Hampshire."
   Delete Section 115.3 and replace as follows: "115.3 Unlawful Continuance,
Court Costs and Legal Fees. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to a
fine of not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. In the event noncompliance with this code necessitates
litigation, any person who violates a provision of this code shall be liable
for court costs and reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the village of
Hampshire."
   Add New Section “429 Vacant Buildings”
   “429.1 Maintenance of Vacant Buildings. All windows, doors, and glass areas
of nonresidential buildings or structures, or portions thereof, that are vacant
for a period of 14 days or more shall be treated to prevent any view into the
interior of the building or structure by either of the following methods:
   1.   The uniform use of horizontal or vertical blinds, which blinds shall be
either white or opaque in color; or
   2.   The use of professionally applied adhesive film.
   No other method to prevent any view into the interior of a vacant
nonresidential building or structure, including without limitation the use of
window soap, boards, paper, or plastic sheeting, shall be permitted unless
approved by the building code official."
   2.1.1.1.1 Add new Section 901.6.3.1 Fire Alarm and Fire Sprinkler Maps and
Legends:
   “Provide Fire Alarm device and location maps and fire sprinkler device and
location maps, that include all devices, equipment, door numbers, riser
coverage areas and information as requested by the Fire Code Official, at the
fire alarm panel, every annunciator panel, and each door where there is an
approved key box installed.”
   Add the following paragraph to the end of the current code requirements:
   “An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all group B
occupancies and buildings.”
   903.2.1 1 Delete the following words and conditions in 903.2.1.1 Group A-1:
   “...where one of the following conditions exists:
   1.   The fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet
   2.   The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more
   3.   The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit
discharge serving such occupancies
   4.   The fire area contains a multiple-theater complex”
   Add the following new condition to 903.2.1.1 Group A-1:
   “903.2.1.1 Group A-1
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all group A-
1 occupancies and buildings."
   Delete the following words and conditions in 903.2.1.2 Group A-2:
   “...where one of the following conditions exist:
   1.   The fire area exceeds 5,000 square feet
   2.   The fire area has an occupant load of 100 or more
   3.   The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit
discharge serving the occupancy"
   Add the following new condition to 903.2.1.2 Group A-2
   “903.2.1.2 Group A-2
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all group A-
2 occupancies and buildings.”
   Delete the following words and conditions in 903.2.1.3 Group A-3:
   “...where one of the following conditions exist:
   1.   The fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet
   2.   The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more
   3.   The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit
discharge serving the occupancy"
   Add the following new condition to 903.2.1.3 Group A-3:
   “903.2.1.2 Group A-3
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all group A-
3 occupancies and buildings"
   Delete the following words and conditions in 903.2.1.4 Group A-4:
   “...where one of the following conditions exist:
   1.   The fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet
   2.   The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more
   3.   The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit
discharge serving the occupancy"
   Add the following new condition to 903.2.1.4
   “903.2.1.4 Group A-4
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all group A-
4 occupancies and buildings."
   Delete Section 903.2.1.5 in its entirety and replace as follows:
   “903.2.1.5 Group A-5. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided
throughout all group A-5 occupancies.”
   Delete in 903.2.1.6 in its entirety and replace with as follows:
   “903.2.1.6 Assembly Occupancies on roofs. Where an occupied roof has an
assembly occupancy, all floors between the occupied roof and the level of exit
discharge shall be equipped with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance
with all applicable sections of this code.”
   903.2.1.7 Delete the follow word/number from the section 903.2.1.7:
   “903.2.1.7 Multiple fire areas. Delete 300 or more.”
   903.2.2   Delete in 903.2.2 in its entirety and replace with as follows:
   “Section 913.2.2 Ambulatory care facilities. An automatic sprinkler system
shall be provided throughout all buildings that contain ambulatory care
facilities. In buildings where ambulatory care is provided on levels other than
the level of exit discharge, an automatic sprinkler system shall be installed
throughout the entire floor as well as all floors below where such care is
provided, and all floors between the level of ambulatory care and the nearest
level of exit discharge, the level of exit discharge, and all floors between
the level of exit discharge.”
   903.2.3 Delete in 903.2.3 in its entirety and replace with as follows:
   “903.2.3 Group E. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
all group E occupancies.”
   903.2.4 Delete in 903.2.4 in its entirety and replace with as follows:
   “903.2.4 Group F-1. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided
throughout all buildings containing a group F-1 occupancy.”
   903.2.4 1 Delete in 903.2.4.1 in its entirety and replace with as follows:
   “903.2.4.1 Woodworking operations. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
provided throughout all buildings containing a group F-1 occupancy that conduct
woodworking operations.”
   903.2.5.3 Delete in 903.2.5.3 in its entirety and replace with as follows:
   “903.2.4.1 Pyroxylin Plastics. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
provided in buildings, or portions thereof, where cellulose nitrate film or
pyroxylin plastics are manufactured, stored, or handled.”
   903.2.6 Delete in the exceptions 1,2 and 3, in their entirety.
   903.2.7 Delete in the exceptions 1, 2, 3 and 4, in their entirety.
   903.2.9.2 Delete Section 903.2.9.2 in its entirety and replace as follows:
   “903.2.9.2 Bulk Storage of tires. Buildings and structures where there is a
storage of tires shall be equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler
system.”
   903.2.11 1 Delete Section 903.2.11.1 in its entirety and replace as follows:
   “903.2.11.1 Stories without openings. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
provided throughout all stories and buildings, including basements and stories
below grade and for all stories.”
   903.2.11.3 Amend the section 903.2.11.3 as follows:
   “An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided in all buildings
regardless of height and occupant load as required in other sections of this
code.”
   903.2.13 Add the following new Section:
   “An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all stories
and buildings, including basements of all B-Business Use Occupancies.”
   903.2.14 Add the following new Section:
   “An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be installed throughout all
stories and buildings, including basements, of all F-2 Factory Use
Occupancies.”
   903.2.15 Add the following new Section:
   “All new buildings other than those that are noted in Village Ordinance for
not requiring fire sprinklers, shall be required to have an approved fire
sprinkler system.”
   903.4.1   Amend Section 903.4.1 to the following, and the current exceptions
have no change:
   “Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly different and
shall be automatically transmitted to an approved supervising station, central
station or remote station. Alarms shall then be reported to the Communications
Center of the Fire Protection District.”
   Add the following additional requirements to the current code section
903.4.2 Alarms:
   “1.   A 75cd minimum blue, weather-proof strobe light above the fire
department sprinkler connection and adjacent to the outside sprinkler alarm
bell, that activates on sprinkler waterflow.
   2.   A 75cd minimum, red strobe light outside the main building entrance
that activates on all general fire alarm activations”
   904.3.5   Amend Section 904.3.5 Monitoring to the following:
   “An automatic fire-extinguishing system shall be monitored by a building
fire alarm system in accordance with NFPA 72.”
   905 3.1 Amend Section 905.3.1 Height as follows:
   “Class III standpipe systems shall be installed throughout buildings or
structures where any of the following conditions exist:
   1.   Three or more stories are above grade plane
   2.   The floor level of the highest story is located thirty (30) feet or
more above the lowest level of the fire department access.
   3.   Any floor level that is located below the highest level of fire
department vehicle access or below grade."
   All current exceptions in the code (1 through 7) remain the same.
   907.1 Add the following paragraph to the current Section 907.1 General
   “Provide Fire Alarm device and location maps and fire sprinkler device and
location maps, that include all devices, equipment, door numbers, riser
coverage areas and information as requested by the Fire Code Official, at the
fire alarm panel, every annunciator panel, and each door where there is an
approved key box installed.”
   907.2 Add the following to the current Section 907.2
   “An approved manual fire alarm system, approved automatic fire alarm with
fire detection (smoke) system shall be installed in any and all new buildings
and structures that requires a building permit. If there is an automatic fire
sprinkler system, then an automatic fire alarm system is only required if it is
required in the adopted code or amendments and also to monitor a fire
suppression/sprinkler system and other fire protection installations.
   An approved manual fire alarm system, approved automatic fire alarm with
fire detection (smoke) system shall be installed, in any and all buildings and
structures undergoing remodeling, renovations, installations and like changes
(painting, carpeting, flooring and cosmetic changes not included) that requires
a building permit. If there is an automatic fire sprinkler system, then a fire
alarm system is only required if it is required in the adopted code or
amendments and also to monitor a fire suppression/sprinkler system and other
fire protections installations.
   If there is a change in occupancy classification of a building, with or
without renovations, an approved manual fire alarm system, automatic fire alarm
with fire detection (smoke) system, and an approved fire sprinkler system shall
be installed. When installation of a fire sprinkler system is required by this
section, installation shall be required on all floors of the occupied space as
required by the building regulations. A fire alarm system will be required to
monitor a fire suppression/sprinkler system and other fire protection
installations.
   If the renovation of any building or structure undergoing remodeling,
renovations, installations and like changes (painting, carpeting, flooring and
cosmetic changes not included) that requires a building permit exceeds 50% of
the occupied single-floor area, then an approved fire sprinkler system shall be
installed. When installation of a fire sprinkler system is required by this
section, installation shall be required on all floors of the occupied spaces as
required by the building regulations. A fire alarm system will be required to
monitor a fire suppression/sprinkler system and other fire protection
installations.
   Exception: Upon renovation exceeding 50% of the occupied single-floor area
of a building containing a Group B or M occupancy, installation of a fire
sprinkler system shall only be required if the occupied single-floor area
exceeds 5,000 square feet.
   The automatic fire detectors shall be smoke detectors. Where ambient
conditions prohibit installation of automatic smoke detection, other automatic
fire detections shall be allowed. A change in zoning and/or occupancy use type
(according to the IBC) will also require an approved automatic fire alarm and
approved automatic fire detection system (smoke detection and manual pull
stations).”
   (The remainder of the Section remains the same)
   Add the following to the end of 907.2: "If the fire alarm control panel is
not located at the main entrance to the building or space, then an annunciator
panel shall be provided at the front entrance and depending upon size of the
building, at additional locations as determined by the Fire Code Official."
   907.6.4 Add the following to Section 907.6.4 Zones
   Delete the wording "Each Floor shall be zoned separately, and a zone shall
not exceed 22,500 square feet. The length of any zoned shall not exceed 300
feet in any direction" and replace with "All fire alarm systems, required or
voluntary installation, shall be UL listed addressable fire alarm panels and
installed in accordance with NFPA 72 and NFPA 70 and shall utilize approved
radio signal for transmitting all types of alarm conditions from the fire alarm
panel to the supervising station."
   907.6.5.1 Add the following new section 907.6.5.1 HVAC Remote Test and Reset
Switches:
   "All HVAC equipment required to have smoke detection shutdown shall have a
remote test and reset switch located under that piece of equipment, if an RTU,
or under that RTU and no higher than 6 feet off the finished floor. The remote
test and reset switch for a non-RTU can be placed at the equipment and in both
cases the remote test and reset switch can be located at the Fire Alarm Control
Panel. The switch shall be labeled as such and the corresponding piece of HVAC
equipment shall be labeled the same as the remote test and reset switch.
Activation of any Duct smoke detector shall transmit a general (true) fire
alarm."
   912.1 Add the following Sentence to the end of the current code section:
   "The Fire Department Connection shall also be of a type as required by the
Fire Code Official."
   1101.1 Add the following at the end of Section 1101.1:
   “When there is a conflict between (i) this Chapter 11 of the International
Building Code and (ii) the Illinois Environmental Barriers Act, 410 ILCS 25/
1 et seq., and the administrative rules adopted thereunder contained in 71 III.
Adm. Code 400, 110 et seq., also known as or the "Illinois Accessibility Code",
the stricter of the two requirements shall be used.”
   1301.1 Amend Section 1301.1 as follows:
   “Section 1301.1 Criteria. Buildings shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the 2018 International Energy Conservation Code or the most
current State of Illinois Energy Conservation Code.”
   1808.1.1 Add the following new Section 1808.1.1:
   "1808.1.1 Wood and straw footings and foundations. The use of wood or straw
footings or foundations shall not be allowed. All references to wood or straw
footings or foundations in this Chapter and International Building Code shall
be deleted."
   1808.1.2 Add the following new Section 1808.1.2:
   "1808.1.2 Frost depth. The minimum frost depth to be used for footing design
is 42 inches."
   2701.2 Add the following new Section 2701.2:
   “2701.2 NFPA 70 Electrical Code. Amendments to NFPA 70. The 2017 edition of
NFPA 70 (National Electrical Code) have been adopted for use by the Village
pursuant to Article 7 of this Title.”
   2901.1 Delete Section and replace with the following:
   “2901.1 Scope. The provisions of the Illinois Plumbing License Law, 225 ILCS
320/0.01 et seq. and the regulations adopted thereunder in 68 III. Admin. Code
750.one hundred (100) et seq. and 77 III. Admin. Code 890.110 et. Seq.
(collectively "Illinois Plumbing Law") shall regulate the licensing of
plumbers, the registration of irrigation contractors, and the design and
installation of plumbing systems, including but not limited to sanitary and
storm drainage, sanitary facilities, water supplies and storm water and sewage
disposal. The Village has adopted the Illinois Plumbing Law with amendments
pursuant to Article 6 of this Title.”
   2901.2 Add a new Section 2901.2 as follows:
   “2901.3 Amendments to Illinois Plumbing Law. The Illinois Plumbing Law is
amended as set forth in Article 6 of this Chapter."
   3001.1 Amend Section 3001.1 to read as follows:
   “3001.1 Scope. All Elevator and Conveyance design, installation,
construction, operation, inspection, testing, maintenance, alteration and
repair of elevators and conveyances shall comply with Section 35 of the
Elevator Safety and Regulation Act (225 ILCS 312/35) of the State of Illinois
and all adopted administrative rules including but not limited to Illinois
Administrative Code 1000 and all stated references in that Act and
Administrative Code shall be adopted as reference as indicated in those
documents. This Chapter thirty (30) shall be applied if it is more restrictive
than the Illinois Elevator Safety and Regulation Act.”
   3110.4 Add new Section 3110.1.4:
   “3110.4 Vehicular gates. All automatically controlled gates across any
access points to or around any property, regardless of occupancy type, shall be
equipped with an operational override key switch or strobe sensor for emergency
access. The strobe sensor or key switch type must be approved by the Fire Code
Official. If a key lock is going to be utilized then a key box, as utilized by
the Fire Department, shall be installed at the gate and a key to the lock or
for an override switch shall be in the box. A knox lock can be used in lieu of
the knox box.”
   3201.5 Add the following new Section 3201.5:
   “3201.5 Additional site plan requirements. Additional site plan requirements
are to be determined by the building official, or his or her authorized
designee for each permit, and may include one or more of the following:
   1.   Fencing is to be installed as listed on the approved site plan and
shall include a gate for access and ability to enclose the site at the end of
each working day. Commercial fencing is to be a minimum of six-foot high chain
link fence properly supported.
   2.   All open excavated holes and drops are to be completely encircled as a
minimum with a four-foot-high safety fencing;
   3.   Silt fencing is required to prevent silt from causing a nuisance to
neighboring properties, discharge into the storm sewer system or creating a
hazard.
   4.   A construction drive shall be installed at the start of the job with a
gravel base to provide contractor Parking to the extent possible to prevent mud
and debris from being tracked onto streets.
   5.   Dirt and debris are to be kept off of street at all times a dumpster or
trash container shall be provided throughout construction.
   6.   A portable toilet shall be maintained at all times, except where the
building owner allows use of the existing facility. The portable toilet is to
be placed to least impact the neighbors and a minimum of 10 feet off the lot
line;
   7.   All sidewalks damaged during construction are to be replaced. In areas
where a new home is constructed all the sidewalks along the property are to be
replaced unless determined otherwise by the building official, or his or her
authorized designee. Damaged sidewalks are to be replaced with a minimum of a
four inch bed of compacted gravel and a minimum of five inch thick concrete
panel. Sidewalk panels in drive areas are to be replaced with a minimum of
seven-inch thick concrete.
   8.   Sidewalks damaged during construction shall be topped with temporary
bituminous pavement until final concrete can be placed.
   9.   Granular back fill shall be required for all street, road edge,
sidewalk, driveway, slab, or patio areas as determined by the building
official, or his or her authorized designee.
   10.   Any street excavation shall be topped with a temporary bituminous
pavement within 48 hours of excavation. A permanent minimum of three (3) inch
bituminous layer, compacted in two lifts, with saw cut edges, is required as
part of the final approval, (a road opening fee per the current fee schedule
will be accessed if road opening is performed).
   11.   Damage to Parkway or neighbor's property due to construction shall be
repaired as soon as weather permits.
   12.   Traffic and Parking requirements as noted on plan are to be followed
throughout the construction process.
   13.   Temporary electric services are to be installed to prevent the use of
generators.
   14.   Tree protection is to be installed per the site plan and may include
(fencing, wrapping of trunk, root cutting before excavation trimming limbs for
access, feeding, aerating, and directional boring under trees with services) as
well as requirements of the tree preservation section.
   15.   Materials are to be stored on private property, storage of materials
in the public right of way is not permitted unless prior approval is granted by
the Village.
   16.   Dust of any type is to be controlled by use of water or other forms of
containment so not to cause a nuisance and use of wet saws as required by
village ordinance.
   17.   Sump discharge is to have one or more of the following: open site
connection, storm sewer connection, drywell or discharge to approved area on
the property. (Sump water will not be allowed to discharge to a location that
will cause a hazard in freezing conditions such as drives, sidewalks, or
streets).
   18.   As -built drawings are required for all exterior water, sanitary, and
storm service lines from the foundation wall of the structure being serviced to
the point of connection with the existing service stub or existing main. The as
built drawing is required regardless of the length of the installation of the
new portion of the utility service.
   18.1 The drawing must be to scale and be no smaller than 1" = 20'. The scale
must be indicated on the submitted drawings.
   18.2 The drawing must be neat, clean and legible. Multiple service lines can
be shown on the same drawing.
   18.3 The minimum acceptable drawing size is 8-1/2" x 11".
   18.4 The pipe size and type must be indicated for each service line.
   18.5 The Location of the installed service line(s) must be tied to a minimum
of two exterior property corners and two exterior foundation corners within an
accuracy of one (1) foot.
   18.6 The locations of all fittings, cleanouts, and B-box's must be
identified within an accuracy of one (1) foot.
   18.7 The depth of the utility service below final grade must be indicated at
all grades and at a minimum of every fifty (50) feet along the length of each
installed service.
   18.8 All prominent topographical features such as exterior build foundations
lines, sidewalks, back of curb, edger of pavement and existing manholes must be
indicated if these features are within 20 feet of any portion of the utility
service line work covered by the building permit.
   18.9 The means of connecting the new portion of the utility line to the
existing main or stub must be identified (Coupling types, tees, wyes etc.)
   18.10 The lower right-hand corner of the submitted drawing must contain the
following information: Street address where the work is being performed; the
building permit number; the date of the sketch preparation; the name and
address and telephone number of the general contractor and subcontractor.
   19.   Every new building and buildings with substantial renovation or as
required by the building official, or his or her authorized designee, shall
install a conduit from the water meter location to the street side exterior of
the building. This conduit shall be used for the remote MXU wiring to the water
meter.
   20.   All new exterior sanitary sewer cleanout covers shall be of a type and
material that can be repeatedly driven over and shall not be made of a PVC
material or other material that cannot withstand the weight of vehicles.
   21.   Utility Connections. All service utility connections shall be
discontinued and capped at the main in accordance with the rules and
requirements of the authority having jurisdiction."
   Appendix C: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix D: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix F: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix N: Adopted by reference. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022; amd. Ord. 23-03,
3-2-2023; Ord. 23-38, 12-21-2023)
ARTICLE III
INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
5-3-1: Adoption of the International Residential Code By Reference
5-3-2: International Residential Code On File
5-3-3: Amendments to the International Residential Code
5-3-1: ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE BY REFERENCE:
The International Residential Code 2018 Edition, as promulgated and published
by the International Code Council, Inc. ("International Residential Code") is
hereby adopted by reference by the Village of Hampshire as modified pursuant to
this Chapter. The International Residential Code applies to all single-family
detached dwellings and two-family dwellings and all buildings and structures
accessory thereto that are expressly regulated by the International Residential
Code. Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and
terms of said the International Residential Code are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set forth in this Code with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter prescribed. (Ord. 22-
27, 10-6-2022)
5-3-2: INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE ON FILE:
Complete printed copies of the International Residential Code, herein adopted,
are available for public use and inspection at the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-3-3: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE:
The International Residential Code, adopted by reference pursuant to this
Chapter 2, is amended as set forth in this Section 4-2-3. Subsequent section
numbers used in this Section shall refer to the like numbered sections of the
International Building Code.
   R101.1 Delete Section R101.1 and replace as follows:
   "Section R101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the International
Residential Code of The Village of Hampshire, Illinois, hereinafter referred to
as 'this code."'
   R105.2 Building: Delete numbers 1 and 2 from, then renumber to read:
   "1.   Retaining walls that are not over 4 feet (1219 mm) in height measured
from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a
surcharge.
   2.   Water tanks supported directly on grade if the capacity does not exceed
5,000 gallons (18,925 I) and the ratio of height to diameter or width does not
exceed 2:1.
   3.   Service sidewalks, patio slabs, and that portion of the driveway on
private property as long as the improvement is comprised only of brick pavers
and does not contain any concrete, asphalt or other permanent material.
   4.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops, and
similar finish work.
   5.   Prefabricated swimming pools that are capable of having a maximum water
depth of 24 inches (610 mm) and/or inflatable, temporary swimming pools of any
water depth.
   6.   Swings and other playground equipment.
   7.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall which do not project more
than 54 inches (1372 mm) from the exterior wall and do not require additional
support."
   (Rest of section remains the same.)
   Add the following to the end of Section R106.1: "Additional site plan
requirements to be determined by the building official, or his or her
authorized designee for each permit, and may include one or more of the
following:
   1.   Fencing is to be installed as listed on the approved site plan and
shall include a gate for access and ability to enclose the site at the end of
each working day. Residential fence is to be a minimum of a four-foot-high
construction type fence property supported.
   2.   All open excavated holes and drops are to be completely encircled at a
minimum with a four-foot-high safety fencing.
   3.   Silt fence is required to prevent silt from causing a nuisance to
neighboring properties, discharge into the storm sewer system or creating a
hazard.
   4.   A construction drive shall be installed at the start of the job with a
gravel base to provide contractor Parking to the extent possible to prevent mud
and debris from being tracked onto streets.
   5.   Dirt and debris are to be kept off of the street at all times a
dumpster or trash container shall be provided throughout construction.
   6.   A portable toilet shall be maintained at all times unless the building
owner allows use of an existing facility. The portable toilet is to be placed
to least impact the neighbors and a minimum of 10 feet off the lot line.
   7.   All sidewalks damaged during construction are to be replaced. In areas
where a new home is constructed all the sidewalks along the property are to be
replaced unless determined otherwise by the building official, or his or her
authorized designee. Damaged sidewalks are to be replaced with a minimum of a
four-inch bed of gravel and a minimum of five-inch-thick concrete panel.
Sidewalk panels in drive areas are to be replaced with a minimum of seven-inch
thick concrete.
   8.   All sidewalks damaged during construction shall be topped with
temporary bituminous pavement until final concrete can be placed.
   9.   Granular back fill shall be required for all street, road edge,
sidewalk, driveway, slab, or patio areas as determined by the building
official, or his or her authorized designee.
   10.   Any street excavation shall be topped with a temporary bituminous
pavement within 48 hours of excavation. A permanent minimum of three-inch
bituminous layer, compacted in two lifts, with saw cut edges, is required as
part of the final approval. (A road opening fee per the Village Comprehensive
Fee Schedule contained in Title 1, Chapter 10 of the Village Code will be
accessed if road opening is performed);
   11.   Damage to Parkway or neighbor's property due to construction shall be
repaired as soon as weather permits.
   12.   Traffic and Parking requirements as noted on plan are to be followed
throughout construction process.
   13.   Temporary electric services are to be installed to prevent the use of
generators.
   14.   Tree protection is to be installed per the site plan and may include
(fencing, wrapping of trunk, root cutting before excavation trimming limbs for
access, feeding, aerating, directional boring under trees with services);
   15.   Materials are to be stored on private property, storage of materials
in the public right of way is not permitted unless prior approval is granted by
the Village.
   16.   Dust of any type is to be controlled by use of water or other forms of
containment so not to cause a nuisance.
   17.   Sump discharge is to have one or more of the following: open site
connection, storm sewer connection, drywell or discharge to approved area on
the property. (Sump water will not be allowed to discharge to a location that
will cause a hazard in freezing conditions such as drives sidewalks or
streets);
   18.   As built drawings are required for all exterior water, sanitary and
storm service lines from the foundation wall of the structure being serviced to
the point of connection with the existing service stub or existing main. The as
built drawing is required regardless of the length of the installation of the
new portion of the utility service.
   18.1 The drawings must be to scale and be no smaller than 1" = 20'. The
scale must be indicated on the submitted drawings.   
   18.2 The drawing must be neat, clean, and legible. Multiple service lines
can be shown on the same drawing.
   18.3 The minimum acceptable drawing size is 8-1/2" x 11".
   18.4 The pipe size and type must be indicated for each service line.
   18.5 The Location of the installed service line(s) must be tied to a minimum
of two exterior property corners and two exterior foundation corners within an
accuracy of 1 foot.
   18.6 The locations of all fittings, cleanouts, and B-box's must be
identified within an accuracy of one-foot.
   18.7 The depth of the utility service below final grade must be indicated at
all grade and at a minimum of every fifty (50) feet along the length of each
installed service.
   18.8   All prominent topographical features such as exterior build
foundations lines, sidewalks, back of curb, edger of pavement and existing
manholes must be indicated if these features are within 20 feet of any portion
of the utility service line work covered by the building permit.
   18.9 The means of connecting the new portion of the utility line to the
existing main or stub must be identified (Coupling types, tees, wyes etc.)
   18.10 The lower right-hand corner of the submitted drawing must contain the
following information: Street address where the work is being."
   R108.2    Delete Section R108.2 in its entirety and replace as follows:
   "Section R108.2 Schedule of Permit Fees. On buildings, structures,
electrical, gas, mechanical, and plumbing systems or alterations requiring a
permit, a fee for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the
Hampshire municipal code building permit fees, as may be amended from time to
time."
   R108.5   Delete Section R108.5 and replace as follows:
   "108.5 Refunds. The code official shall authorize the refunding of fees as
follows:
   1.   The full amount of any fee paid hereunder which was erroneously paid or
collected.
   2.   Not more than 90 percent of the permit fee paid when no work has been
done under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
   3.   No part of the plan review fee paid shall be refunded when the plan
review has been completed and the application for permit is withdrawn. The code
official shall not authorize the refunding of any fee paid, except upon written
application filed by the original permittee not later than 180 days after the
date of fee payment."   
   R108.6   Delete Section R108.6 and replace as follows:
   "108.6 Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance. Any person who commences any
work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system
before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to one hundred (100)
percent of the usual permit fee in addition to the required permit fee. In the
event that any building is undertaken without compliance with the above
referenced fee schedule after thirty (30) days when notified of noncompliance,
then and in that event, the responsible owner, contractor, or both, shall be
liable for a fine of not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and one hundred (100) percent of the
usual permit fee in addition to the required permit fee. Each day a violation
continues shall be deemed a separate offense."
   Add new Section R108.7 as follows:
   "108.7 Bond. For any building permit to be issued for construction
activities at a location where public improvements at or adjacent to said
location, including but not limited to streets, paving, curbs and gutters,
sidewalks, driveway aprons, trees, landscaping, manholes, fire hydrants,
auxiliary valves, buffalo boxes, storm and sanitary sewers, sump pump
connections, street lights and wiring, and/or final grading, have previously
been constructed and/or installed, and have been certified as complete and/or
have been accepted by the village the application for issuance of a building
permit shall be accompanied by a bond in an amount set by the village
administrator, subject to any schedule of amounts that may be established from
time to time by the board of trustees, to secure against loss occasioned by
damage to any of said public improvements. Said bond, or the balance remaining
after application of said bond to any such damages, may be released to the
applicant upon issuance by the village of a certificate of occupancy for the
new building."
   Delete Section R112.1 and replace as follows:
   "112.1 General. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or
determinations made by the building official relative to the application and
interpretation of this code, the village board of trustees shall be the board
of appeals. Therefore, for the purposes of this code, the board of appeals
shall be construed to mean the village board of trustees. The building official
shall be an ex officio member of said board but shall have no vote on any
matter before the board. The board of appeals shall adopt rules of procedure
for conducting its business. When a quorum is present, the board shall uphold,
modify, or reverse the decision of the code official by a concurring vote of
the majority of members present at the meeting; and, shall render all decisions
and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the building
official."
   Delete Section R112.3 in its entirety.
   Delete Section R114.4 and replace as follows:
   "114.4 Violation Penalties, Court Costs and Legal Fees. Any person who
violates a provision of this code or fails to comply with any of the
requirements thereof or who erects, constructs, alters or repairs a building or
structure in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of
the building official, or a permit or certificate issued under the provisions
of this code, shall be subject to a fine of not less than seventy-five dollars
($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day a
violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate
offense, n the event noncompliance with this code necessitates litigation, any
person who violates a provision of this code shall be liable for court costs
and reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the village of Hampshire."
   Delete Section R114.2 and replace as follows:
   "115.3 Unlawful Continuance, Court Costs and Legal Fees. Any person who
shall continue any work in or about the structures after having been served
with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform
to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to a fine of not
less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). Each day unauthorized work continues after due notice has
been served shall be deemed a separate offense. In the event noncompliance with
this code necessitates litigation, any person who violates a provision of this
code shall be liable for court costs and reasonable attorney's fees incurred by
the village of Hampshire."
   Table R301.2 Delete entire Table R301.2(1) and replace as follows:
TABLE R301.2(1)
CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
Ground Snow Load          30 psf minimum
Wind Speed                3 second one hundred (100) normal 90
Seismic Design Category   (B) but check design criteria for new Madrid Fault-as
                          noted in code
Weathering                Severe
Frost line depth          42 inches
Termite                   Moderate to heavy
Decay                     Slight to moderate
Winter Design Temperature -4 degrees
Ice Shield Underlayment   Yes
Flood Hazard              See local flood zone map
Air Freezing Index        2000
Mean Annual Temperature   47 degrees Fahrenheit
 
   R313.2 Delete Section R313 in its entirety. See Village of Hampshire
Ordinance No. 22-03. (Deletion of requirement of fire sprinklers for townhouses
and one-and two-family dwellings)
   Part VII - Plumbing Administration
   Delete the text of this Part and replace with the following:
   Refer to Article 6 of this Chapter for the Illinois Plumbing Code.
   Part VIII - Electrical
   Add Refer to Article 7 of this Chapter for 2017 NEC-NFPA 70
   Chapter 44 - Referenced Standards:
   1.   Delete "International Plumbing Code" and substitute and replace with
"Illinois Plumbing Code". Law as defined in Section 2901.1 of the International
Building Code as amended by Article 6."
   2.   Delete "International Electric Code" and substitute replace with "NFPA
70 2017 edition". "National Electric Code 2017 Edition."
   3.   Delete "International Zoning Code" without substitution.
   Appendix A: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix B: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix C: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix F: Adopted by reference
   Appendix G: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix K: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix M: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix O: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix Q: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix T: Adopted by reference. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
ARTICLE IV
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
5-4-1: Adoption Of Property Maintenance Code
5-4-2: Amendments to the International Property Maintenance Code
5-4-1: ADOPTION OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the Village the 2018 International Property
Maintenance Code, as hereinafter amended (hereinafter the "Property Maintenance
Code"). At least one copy of the 2018 International Property Maintenance Code
has been on file in the office of the Village Clerk for a period of at least 30
days prior to the adoption of these provisions and remains on file in the
office of the Village Clerk and is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as
if set out at length herein. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-4-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
The following sections of the 2018 International Property Maintenance Code are
hereby amended, revised, and changed as follows:
   101.1 Delete Section 101.1 and replace as follows:
   “101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the International Property
Maintenance Code of the Village of Hampshire hereinafter referred to as this
"code."
   102.3 Delete Section 102.3 and replace as follows:
   "102.3 Application of other codes. Repairs, additions, or alterations to a
structure, or change of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of all applicable and adopted codes and ordinances of
the Village of Hampshire and any applicable law of the State of Illinois.
Nothing in this code shall be construed to cancel, modify or set aside any
provision of Title 10 of the Hampshire Municipal Code (zoning regulations)."
   103.1 Delete Section 103.1 and replace as follows:
   "103.1 General. The building official, or his or her authorized designee
shall be responsible for the enforcement of the Property Maintenance Code."
   103.2 Delete Section 103.2 and replace as follows:
   "103.2 Appointment. The code official shall be appointed by the chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction with the advice and consent of the
village board. The code official may be removed or replaced at any time with
the advice and consent of the village board."
   103.5 Delete Section 103.5 and replace as follows:
   "103.5 Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the
department in carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be as set
by the village from time to time."
   106.4 Delete Section 106.4 and replace as follows:
   "106.4 Violation Penalties. Any person or property owner who shall violate a
provision of this code, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the
requirements thereof, shall be prosecuted within the limits provided by state
and local laws, and shall be subject to a fine of not less than $75 nor more
than $750. Each day a violation continues after due notice has been served
shall be deemed a separate offense."
   1111 Delete Section 111.1, 111.2, 111.2.1, 111.2.2, 111.2.3, 111.2.4,
111.2.5, and replace as follows:
   "Section 111.1 Application for Appeal. A person shall have the right to
appeal a decision of the code official to the village board of trustees. The
applicant shall make written application for the appeal, and such appeal shall
be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally
adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted or the provisions of the
code do not fully apply. The application shall be in writing and filed with the
village manager within 20 days after the decision of the code official."
   202 Amend Section 202 by adding the following definitions in the proper
alphabetical order:
   "COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons
or property in furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for-hire
or not-for-hire, that is either in excess of 8,000 pounds in gross weight
(including vehicle and maximum load) (class I commercial vehicle) or less than
8,000 pounds in gross weight (including vehicle and maximum load) and has
property that is stored and or transported in a manner that is not safe or not
completely enclosed within the vehicle or trailer and or may or may not have
exterior commercial signage (class II commercial vehicle).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle or boat designed for living quarters,
recreation, or human habitation and not used as a commercial vehicle
specifically including but without limitation boats and other watercraft,
camper trailers, motorized homes, off-the-road vehicles, racing cars and racing
cycles, travel trailers, truck campers, snowmobiles, tent trailers and vehicle
trailers."
   302.2 Delete Section 302.2 and replace as follows:
   "302.2 Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained to
prevent the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water
thereon, or within any structure located thereon and also to prevent the
unnecessary runoff of stormwater to neighboring properties.
   Exception: Approved retention areas and reservoirs"
   302.2.1 Add new Section 302.2.1 as follows:
   "302.2.1 Obstructions across a watercourse. It shall be unlawful to block or
impede the flow of water in any type of manmade or natural water course
including but not limited to detention and retention pods, ravines, ditches and
swales and dedicated drainage easements."
   302.4 Delete Section 302.4 and replace as follows:
   "302.4 Weeds. All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free
from weeds, grass or plant growth in excess of 8 inches in height. All noxious
weeds shall be prohibited. Weeds shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants
and vegetation, other than trees or shrubs provided; however, this term shall
not include cultivated flowers and gardens.
   Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property to cut and
destroy weeds after service of a notice of violation, they shall be subject to
prosecution in accordance with Section 106 and as prescribed by the authority
having jurisdiction. Upon failure tc comply with the notice of violation, any
duly authorized employee of the jurisdiction or contractor hired by the
jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter upon the property in violation and
cut and destroy the weeds growing thereon, and costs of such removal shall be
paid by the owner or agent responsible for the property. If said costs are not
paid by the owner or agent then the Village of Hampshire shall charge any and
all costs, including fines and legal fees, associated with the violation
remediation, against the real estate upon which the structure or violation is
is located and shall there can be a lien upon such real estate in order to
recoup costs for remediation."
   302.4.1 Add the following new Section:
   "302.4.1 Obstructions. Any and all landscaping, trees, shrubs, bushes and
vegetative matter and any other object or thing shall not obstruct or impede
the use of or vision of any public way, street, alley, sidewalk or fire hydrant
and firefighting equipment and fire sprinkler and standpipe connections. Clear
access of at least four feet in all directions must be provided for fire
hydrants, firefighting equipment, fire sprinkler and standpipe connections."
   304 14 Delete Section 304.14 and replace as follows:
   "304.14 Insect screens. During the period from April 15 to October 15, every
door, window and other outside opening required for ventilation habitable
rooms, food preparation areas, food service areas or any areas where product to
be included or utilized in food for human consumption are processed,
manufactured, packaged or stored shall be supplied with approved tightly
fitting screens not less than 16 mesh per inch and every screen door used for
insect control shall have a self-closing device in good working condition."
   501.1 Delete Section 501.1 and replace as follows:
   "Section 501.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the
minimum plumbing systems, facilities, and plumbing fixtures to be provided. If
there should be a conflict between any listed requirements and those as
required by the Illinois State Plumbing Code, as adopted by the Village,
required for use by the State of Illinois, and amended pursuant to Chapter 5 of
this Title, then the most restrictive requirement would apply."
   502.5 Delete Section 502.5 and replace as follows:
   "Section 502.5 Public toilet facilities. Public toilet facilities shall be
maintained in a safe sanitary and working condition in accordance with the
State of Illinois Plumbing Code, as adopted by the Village, required by the
State of Illinois, and amended pursuant to Chapter 5 of this Title. Except for
periodic maintenance or cleaning, public access and use shall be provided to
the toilet facilities at all times during the occupancy of the premises."
   505.1 Delete Section 505.1 and replace as follows:
   "Section 505.1 General. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking
fountain, water closet or other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to
either a public water system or to an approved private water system. All
kitchen sinks, lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs, and showers shall be
supplied with hot or tempered and cold running water in accordance with the
State of Illinois Plumbing Code, as adopted by the Village, required by the
State of Illinois, and amended pursuant to Chapter 6 of this Title."
   602.2 Delete Section 602.2, including the Exception, and replace as follows:
   "602.2 Residential Occupancies. Dwellings shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68° F in all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms based on the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality indicated in Table 301.2(1) of the International
Residential Code. Cooking appliances and temporary type heating devices shall
not be used to provide space heating to meet the requirements of this section."
   602.3 Delete Section 602.3 and replace as follows:
   "602.3 Heat Supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents,
leases or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either
expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply
heat during the period from October 1 to April 30 to maintain a temperature of
not less than 68° F in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms."
   602.4 Delete Section 602.4 except for the Exceptions, which shall remain,
and replace as follows:
   "602.4 Occupiable workspaces. Indoor occupiable workspaces shall be supplied
with heat during the period from October 1 to April 30 to maintain a
temperature of not less than 65°F during the period the spaces are occupied."
   604.3.1.1 Amend Section 604.3.1.1 and replace as follows:
   "604.3.1.1 Electrical equipment. Add the following sentence at the end of
the paragraph. All work shall also be in compliance with the 2017 National
Electrical Code (NFPA 70), as adopted by the Village and amended pursuant to
Article 7 of this Chapter."
   604.3.2.1 Amend Section 604.3.2.1 and replace as follows:
   "604.3.2.1 Electrical equipment. Add the following sentence at the end of
the section before the exception: All work shall also be in compliance with the
2017 National Electrical Code (NFPA 70), as adopted by the Village and amended
pursuant to Article 7 of this Chapter."
   606.1 Delete Section 606.1 and replace as follows:
   "606.1 General. Elevators, dumbwaiters, and escalators shall be maintained
in compliance with ASME A17.1 and the State of Illinois Conveyance and Elevator
rules and regulations. The most current certificate of inspection shall be
always on display within the elevator or attached to the escalator or
dumbwaiter, be available for public inspection in the office of the building
operator or be posted in a publicly conspicuous location approved by the code
official. The inspection and tests shall be performed at not less than the
periodic intervals listed in ASME A17.1, Appendix N, State of Illinois
Conveyance and Elevator rules and regulations and except where otherwise
specified by the authority having jurisdiction."
   Appendix A: Adopted by reference. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
ARTICLE V
INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE
SECTION:
5-5-1: Adoption Of 2018 International Fire Code
5-5-2: International Fire Code on File
5-5-3: Amendments To The International Fire Code
5-5-1: ADOPTION OF 2018 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:
The regulations of the 2018 edition of the International Fire Code, as
published by the International Code Council ("International Fire Code") is
hereby adopted as the regulations governing the safeguard of life and property
from the hazards of fire and explosion arising from the storage, handling and
use of hazardous substances, materials and devices; and from conditions
hazardous to life or property in the use or occupancy of existing or proposed
new buildings or premises in the Village of Hampshire with such amendments as
are hereafter set forth. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-5-2: INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE ON FILE:
Complete printed copies of the International Fire Code, herein adopted, are
available for public use and inspection at the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-5-3: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:
The following sections of the 2018 International Fire Code are hereby amended,
revised, and changed as follows:
   101.1 Delete section and replace as follows:
   "101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of the
Village of Hampshire, hereafter referred to as "this Code."
   103.2 Delete section and replace as follows:
   "103.2 Appointment. The code official shall be appointed by the chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction with the advice and consent of the
village board. The code official may be removed or replaced at any time with
the advice and consent of the village board."
   109.1 Delete the section in its entirety and replace as follows:
   "109 Board of Appeals Established. In order to hear and decide appeals of
orders, decisions or determinations made by the code official relative to the
application and interpretation of this code, the village board of trustees
shall be the board of appeals. Therefore, for the purposes of this code, the
board of appeals shall be construed to mean the village board of trustees. The
code official and the fire marshal shall be ex officio members of said board
but shall have no vote on any matter before the board. The board shall adopt
rules of procedure for conducting its business, and shall render all decisions
and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the code
official."
   109.3 Delete this section in its entirety
   109.4 Delete section 110.4 and replace as follows (section 110.4.1 remains
in effect)
   "110.4 Violation Penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this
code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall
erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or
certificate used under provisions of this code, shall be subject to a fine of
not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues after due notice has been
served shall be deemed a separate offense."
   109.4.1 Add the following to the end of section 110.4.1:
   "Section 110.4.1 Abatement of violation. In the event noncompliance with
this code necessitates litigation, any person who violates a provision of this
code shall be liable for court costs and reasonable attorney's fees incurred by
the village of Hampshire."
   112.4 Delete section 112.4 and replace as follows:
   "112.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject
to a fine of not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day unauthorized work continues after due
notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense."
   112.5.1 Add the following new section as follows:
   "112.4.1 Court Costs and Legal Fees. In the event noncompliance with this
code necessitates litigation, any person who violates a provision of this code
shall be liable for court costs and reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the
village of Hampshire."
   506.1 Amend the Section Where Required by adding the following sentences to
the end of the paragraph:
   "Minimally, there shall be an approved (by the Fire Code Official) key box
at the main entrance and also at the Fire Alarm room/Fire Sprinkler Room or
access door. For larger buildings, additional approved key boxes may be
required at additional locations.   
   There shall also be key boxes for gates that secure lots, driveways, fire
apparatus access roads, parking areas and other areas using gates or like
devices for security, decoration, and other uses. The key box shall be in place
and shall have keys to unlock gates, locks and provide for operations of a
manual override of automatic gates or devices. Property access that is
protected with gates at the access points shall be approved by the Fire Code
Official."
   509.1.2 Add new Section 509.1.2 Room and or Space Identification:
   "The doors to any and all mechanical, electrical, fire protection, valve
rooms and any room as required by the Fire Code Official, shall be clearly
labeled with at least 3 inch letters as to the room use."
   509.3 Add new Section 509.3 as follows:
   "All service and entry doors shall be numbered, both inside and outside,
starting with the number one (1) at the main entrance of the building and then
proceeding in a clockwise direction to the next door which will be number two
(2) and continuing around the building until all doors have been numbered. The
doors shall be numbered using at least 4 inch numerals that are easily legible.
The numbers shall be visible from the parking lots and shall be in contrasting
color to the door they are placed on.”
   901.6.2 Add new Section 901.6.2 Fire Alarm and Fire Sprinkler Maps and
Legends
   "Provide Fire Alarm device and location maps and fire sprinkler device and
location maps, that include all devices, equipment, door numbers, riser
coverage areas and information as requested by the Fire Code Official, at the
fire alarm panel, every annunciator panel, and each door where there is an
approved key box installed".
   903.2 Add the following paragraph to the end of the current code
requirements
   "An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all group B
occupancies and buildings."
   903.2.1.1 Delete the following words and conditions in 903.2.1.1 Group A-1:
   "....where one of the following conditions exists:
   1. The fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet
   2. The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more
   3. The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit discharge
serving such occupancies
   4. The fire area contains a multiple-theater complex"
   903.2.1.1 Add the following new condition to 903.2.1.1 Group A-1:
   "903.2.1.1 Group A-1
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all group A-
1 occupancies and buildings."
   903.2.1.2 Delete the following words and conditions in 903.2.1.2 Group A-2:
   "...where one of the following conditions exist:
   1. The fire area exceeds 5,000 square feet
   2. The fire area has an occupant load of one hundred (100) or more
   3. The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit discharge
serving the occupancy"
   903.2.1.2 Add the following new condition to 903.2.1.2 Group A-2:
   "903.2.1.2 Group A-2
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all group A-
2 occupancies and buildings."
   903.2.1.3 Delete the following words and conditions in 903.2.1.3 Group A-3:
   "...where one of the following conditions exist:
   1. The fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet
   2. The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more
   3. The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit discharge
serving the occupancy"
   903.2.1.3 Add the following new condition to 903.2.1.3 Group A-3:
   "903.2.1.2 Group A-3
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all group A-
3 occupancies and buildings."
   903.2.1.4 Delete the following words and conditions in 903.2.1.4 Group A-4:
   "...where one of the following conditions exist:
   1. The fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet
   2. The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more
   3. The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit discharge
serving the occupancy"
   903.2.1.4 Add the following new condition to 903.2.1.4:
   "903.2.1.4 Group A-4
   An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all group A-
4 occupancies and buildings."
   903.2.1.5 Delete Section 903.2.1.5 in its entirety and replace as follows:
   "903.2.1.5 Group A-5. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided
throughout all group A-5 occupancies."
   903.2.1.6 Delete in 903.2.1.6 in its entirety and replace with as follows:
   "903.2.1.6 Assembly Occupancies on roofs. Where an occupied roof has an
assembly occupancy, all floors between the occupied roof and the level of exit
discharge shall be equipped with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance
with all applicable sections of this code."
   903.2.1.7 Delete the follow word/number from the section 903.2.1.7:
   "903.2.1.7 Multiple fire areas. Delete 300 or more."
   903.2.2 Delete in 903.2.2 in its entirety and replace with as follows:
   "Section 913.2.2 Ambulatory care facilities. An automatic sprinkler system
shall be provided throughout all buildings that contain ambulatory care
facilities. In buildings where ambulatory care is provided on levels other than
the level of exit discharge, an automatic sprinkler system shall be installed
throughout the entire floor as well as all floors below where such care is
provided, and all floors between the level of ambulatory care and the nearest
level of exit discharge, the level of exit discharge, and all floors between
the level of exit discharge."
   903.2.3 Delete in 903.2.3 in its entirety and replace with as follows:
   "903.2.3 Group E. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
all group E occupancies."
   903.2.4 Delete in 903.2.4 in its entirety and replace with as follows:
   "903.2.4 Group F-1. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided
throughout all buildings containing a group F-1 occupancy."
   903.2.4.1 Delete in 903.2.4.1 in its entirety and replace with as follows:
   "903.2.4.1 Woodworking operations. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
provided throughout all buildings containing a group F-1 occupancy that conduct
woodworking operations."
   903.2.5.3 Delete in 903.2.5.3 in its entirety and replace with as follows:
   "903.2.4.1 Pyroxylin Plastics. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
provided in buildings, or portions thereof, where cellulose nitrate film or
pyroxylin plastics are manufactured, stored, or handled."
   903.2.6 Delete in the exceptions 1, 2 and 3, in their entirety.
   903.2.7 Delete in the exceptions 1,2,3 and 4, in their entirety.
   903.2.9.2 Delete Section 903.2.9.2 in its entirety and replace as follows:
   "903.2.9.2 Bulk Storage of tires. Buildings and structures where there is a
storage of tires shall be equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler
system."
   "903.2.11.1 Stories without openings. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
provided throughout all stories and buildings, including basements and stories
below grade and for all stories."
   903.2.11.3 Amend the section 903.2.11.3 as follows:
   "An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided in all buildings
regardless of height and occupant load as required in other sections of this
code."
   903.2.13 Add the following new Section:
   "An automatic fire sprinkler shall be provided throughout all stories and
buildings, including basements of all B-Business Use Occupancies."
   903.2.14 Add the following new Section:
   "An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be installed throughout all
stories and buildings, including basements, of all F-2 Factory Use
Occupancies."
   903.2.15 Add the following new Section:
   "All new buildings other than those that are noted in Village Ordinance for
not requiring fire sprinklers, shall be required to have an approved fire
sprinkler system."
   903.4.1 Amend Section 903.4.1 to the following and the current exceptions
have no change:
   "Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly different and
shall be automatically transmitted to an approved supervising station; central
station or remote station. Alarms shall then be reported to the Communications
Center of the Fire Protection District."
   903.4.2 Add the following additional requirements to the current code
section 903.4.2 Alarms:
   "1. A 75cd minimum blue, weather-proof strobe light above the fire
department sprinkler connection and adjacent to the outside sprinkler alarm
bell, that activates on sprinkler waterflow.
   2. A 75cd minimum, red strobe light outside the main building entrance that
activates on all general fire alarm activations."
   904.3.5 Amend Section 904.3.5 Monitoring to the following:
   "An automatic fire-extinguishing system shall be monitored by a building
fire alarm system in accordance with NFPA 72."
   905.3.1 Amend Section 905.3.1 Height as follows:
   "Class III standpipe systems shall be installed throughout buildings or
structures where any of the following conditions exist:
   1. Three or more stories are above grade plane
   2. The floor level of the highest story is located 30 feet or more above the
lowest level of the fire department access.
   3. Any floor level that is located below the highest level of fire
department vehicle access or below grade."
   All current exceptions in the code (1 through 7) remain the same.
   907.1 Add the following paragraph to the current Section 907.1 General:
   "Provide Fire Alarm device and location maps and fire sprinkler device and
location maps, that include all devices, equipment, door numbers, riser
coverage areas and information as requested by the Fire Code Official, at the
fire alarm panel, every annunciator panel, and each door where there is an
approved key box installed."
   Add the following to the current Section 907.2:
   “An approved manual fire alarm system, approved automatic fire alarm with
fire detection (smoke) system shall be installed in any and all new buildings
and structures that requires a building permit. If there is an automatic fire
sprinkler system, then an automatic fire alarm system is only required if it is
required in the adopted code or amendments and also to monitor a fire
suppression/sprinkler system and other fire protection installations.
   An approved manual fire alarm system, approved automatic fire alarm with
fire detection (smoke) system shall be installed, in any and all buildings and
structures undergoing remodeling, renovations. installations and like changes
(painting, carpeting, flooring and cosmetic changes not included) that requires
a building permit. If there is an automatic fire sprinkler system, then a fire
alarm system is only required if it is required in the adopted code or
amendments and also to monitor a fire suppression/sprinkler system and other
fire protection installations.
   If there is a change in occupancy classification of a building, with or
without renovations, an approved manual fire alarm system, automatic fire alarm
with fire detection (smoke) system, and an approved fire sprinkler system shall
be installed. When installation of a fire sprinkler system is required by this
section, installation shall be required on all floors of the occupied space as
required by the Building Regulations. A fire alarm system will be required to
monitor a fire suppression/sprinkler system and other fire protection
installations.
   If the renovation of any building or structure undergoing remodeling,
renovations, installations and like changes (painting, carpeting, flooring and
cosmetic changes not included) that requires a building permit exceeds 50% of
the occupied single-floor area, then an approved fire sprinkler system shall be
installed. When installation of a fire sprinkler system is required by this
section, installation shall be required on all floors of the occupied space as
required by the Building Regulations. A fire alarm system will be required to
monitor a fire suppression/sprinkler system and other fire protection
installations.
   Exception: Upon renovation exceeding 50% of the occupied single-floor area
of a building containing a Group B or M occupancy, installation of a fire
sprinkler system shall only be required if the occupied single-floor area
exceeds 5,000 square feet.
   The automatic fire detectors shall be smoke detectors. Where ambient
conditions prohibit installation of automatic smoke detection, other automatic
fire detections shall be allowed. A change in zoning and or occupancy use type
(according to the IBC) will also require an approved automatic fire alarm and
approved automatic fire detection system (smoke detection and manual pull
stations)." (the remainder of the Section remains the same)
   Add the following to the end of 907.2:
   "If the fire alarm control panel is not located at the main entrance to the
building or space, then an annunciator panel shall be provided at the front
entrance and depending upon size of the building, at additional locations as
determined by the Fire Code Official."
   Add the following to Section 907.6.4 Zones:
   Delete the wording "Each Floor shall be zoned separately, and a zone shall
not exceed 22,500 square feet. The length of any zoned shall not exceed 300
feet in any direction," and replace with "All fire alarm systems, required or
voluntary installation, shall be UL listed addressable fire alarm panels and
installed in accordance with NFPA 72 and NFPA 70 and shall utilize approved
radio signal for transmitting all types of alarm conditions from the fire alarm
panel to the supervising station"
   Add the following new section 907.6.5.1 HVAC Remote Test and Reset Switches:
   All HVAC equipment required to have smoke detection shutdown shall have a
remote test and reset switch located under that piece of equipment, if an RTU,
or under that RTU and no higher than 6 feet off the finished floor. The remote
test and reset switch for a non-RTU can be placed at the equipment and in both
cases the remote test and reset switch can be located at the Fire Alarm Control
Panel. The switch shall be labeled as such and the corresponding piece of HVAC
equipment shall be labeled the same as the remote test and reset switch.
Activation of any Duct smoke detector shall transmit a general (true) fire
alarm."
   912.1 Add the following Sentence to the end of the current code section
   "The Fire Department Connection shall also be of a type as required by the
Fire Code Official."
   5001 .1.2 Add new section 5001.1.2 as follows:
   "Section 5001.1.2 Limits Established. Storage of flammable cryogenic fluids
in stationary containers outside of buildings is prohibited in all zoning
districts except industrial. Storage of class I and II liquids in aboveground
tanks outside of buildings is prohibited in all zoning districts except
industrial. The storage of class I and II liquids in above-ground tanks is
prohibited within all zoning districts except industrial. Within all zoning
districts except industrial the storage of liquified petroleum gas is
restricted for the protection of heavily populated or congested areas, the
aggregate capacity of any one installation shall not exceed a water capacity of
2,000 gallons (7570 I)."
   CHAPTER 47 - REFERENCED STANDARDS
   Chapter 47 Referenced Standards changes:
   Delete ICC Electric Code and insert 2017 National Electric Code-NFPA 70
   Delete International Plumbing Code and insert the Illinois State Plumbing
Code
   Delete the International Sewage Disposal Code and insert Illinois State
Plumbing Code
   NFPA The most current edition of all the NFPA Standards, except/deleting
NFPA 1 and NFPA 5000, are adopted by reference and also in whole.
   Appendix E: Adopted by reference
   Appendix C: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix D: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix F: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix H: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix I: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix J: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix N: Adopted by reference. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022; amd. Ord. 23-03,
3-2-2023; Ord. 23-38, 12-21-2023)
ARTICLE VI
ILLINOIS PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
5-6-1: Adoption Of Illinois Plumbing Law
5-6-2: Illinois Plumbing Law On File
5-6-3: Amendments To The Illinois Plumbing Law
5-6-1: ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS PLUMBING LAW:
The provisions of the Illinois Plumbing License Law, 225 ILCS 320/0.01 et seq.
and the regulations adopted thereunder in 68 III. Admin. Code 750.one hundred
(100) et seq. and 77 III. Admin. Code 890.110 et. Seq. (collectively "Illinois
Plumbing Law") shall regulate the licensing of plumbers, the registration of
irrigation contractors, and the design and installation of plumbing systems,
including but not limited to sanitary and storm drainage, sanitary facilities,
water supplies and storm water and sewage disposal. The Village hereby adopts
the most current version of the Illinois Plumbing Code. This code hereby
replaces the International Plumbing Code and any references thereto in any
International Code as adopted by the Village of Hampshire. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-
2022)
5-6-2: ILLINOIS PLUMBING LAW ON FILE:
Complete printed copies of the Illinois Plumbing Code/Law, herein adopted, are
available for public use and inspection at the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-6-3: AMENDMENTS TO THE ILLINOIS PLUMBING LAW:
The following sections of the Illinois Plumbing Code/Law are hereby amended,
revised, and changed as follows. Subsequent section numbers used in this
Chapter shall refer to the like numbered sections of the Illinois Plumbing Law:
   890.APP. A Approved Materials for Building Sewer. Delete paragraph 2 and
replace as follows:
   "(2) Asbestos Cement Pipe shall NOT be used."
   890.APP A Approved Materials for Water Service Pipe. Delete paragraphs 1,4,
8, 9, 10, and 11 and replace each paragraph as follows:
   “(1) Aceylonite Butadiene Stryene (ABS) Pipe shall NOT be used.”
   “(4) Chlorinated polyvinyl chloride (CPVC) Pipe shall NOT be used.”
   "(8) Poly Butylene (PB) Pipe/Tubing shall NOT be used."
   "(9) Polyethylene (PE) Pipe shall NOT be used."
   "(10) Polyethylene (PE) Tubing: shall NOT be used."
   "(11) Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) Pipe: shall NOT be used."
   890.APP. A Approved Materials for Water Distribution Pipe. Delete paragraph
7 and replace as follows:
   "(7) Poly Butylene (PB) Pipe/Tubing shall NOT be used."
   ADDITIONAL SPECIAL RULES
   890APPA Additional Special Rules. The following additional special rules and
regulations are hereby adopted as a part of this code:
   1. All water pipe for below grade water pipe shall be run in Type "K" soft
copper
   2. All new sanitary lines shall be overhead type sewers to prevent possible
surcharging the basement
   3. All directional bored storm or sanitary lines shall be inspected by use
of a video camera supplied by contractor after installation to verify integrity
and proper pitch of pipe. Village inspector to be on site at time video is
taken.
   4. All new sewer pipe connections of dissimilar material are to be made with
no shear type fittings.
   5. When a new water meter or new water service is installed in an existing,
renovated or new building or there is a new occupancy or occupant/owner of a
building then a W metallic conduit shall be installed from the meter to the
street side of the building so that a remote water meter reader can be wired
and installed. The location of the conduit can be verified with the Public
Works, or his or her authorized designee.
   6. Utilize water sense water saving plumbing fixtures. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-
2022)
ARTICLE VII
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
5-7-1: Adoption Of 2017 National Electrical Code
5-7-2: Amendments to the Electrical Code
5-7-2-1: Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance
5-7-2-2: Penalties
5-7-2-3: Court Costs and Legal Fees
5-7-2-4: Unlawful Continuance
5-7-2-5: Appeals
5-7-2-6: Decisions
5-7-1: ADOPTION OF 2017 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the Village the 2017 National Electrical Code (NFPA
70) as hereinafter amended (hereinafter the "Electrical Code"). At least one
copy of the 2017 National Electrical Code (NFPA 70) has been on file in the
office of the Village Clerk for a period of at least thirty (30) days prior to
the adoption of these provisions and remains on file in the office of the
Village Clerk and is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length herein. Any reference to the Electrical Code in Hampshire is the 2017
National electric Code 2017 Edition. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-7-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE ELECTRICAL CODE:
5-7-2-1: WORK COMMENCING BEFORE PERMIT ISSUANCE:
Any person who commences any work before obtaining the necessary permits shall
be subject to one hundred (100) percent of the usual permit fee in addition to
the required permit fee. In the event that any building is undertaken without
compliance with the abovereferenced fee schedule after thirty (30) days when
notified of noncompliance, then and in that event, the responsible owner,
contractor, or both, shall be liable for a fine of not less than seventy-five
dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and one
hundred (100) percent of the usual permit fee in addition to the required
permit fee. Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-7-2-2: PENALTIES:
Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of this code or who fails to
carry out an order made pursuant of this code or violates any condition
attached to a permit, approval or certificate shall be subject to a fine of not
less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-7-2-3: COURT COSTS AND LEGAL FEES:
In the event noncompliance with this code necessitates litigation, any person
who violates a provision of this code shall be liable for court costs and
reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the village of Hampshire. (Ord. 22-27,
10-6-2022)
5-7-2-4: UNLAWFUL CONTINUANCE:
Any person who shall continue any work in or about the structure after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to a
fine of not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-7-2-5: APPEALS:
In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made
by the code official relative to the application and interpretation of this
code, the village board of trustees shall be the board of appeals. Therefore,
for the purposes of this code, the board of appeals shall be construed to mean
the village board of trustees. The code official shall be an ex officio member
of said board, but shall have no vote on any matter before the board. The board
of appeals shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and shall
render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate
copy to the building official. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-7-2-6: DECISIONS:
The board shall uphold, modify, or reverse the decision of the code official by
a concurring vote of the majority of members present at the meeting. (Ord. 22-
27, 10-6-2022)
ARTICLE VIII
INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
5-8-1: Adoption Of 2018 International Fuel Gas Code
5-8-2: Amending The 2018 International Fuel Gas Code
5-8-1: ADOPTION OF 2018 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the Village the 2018 International Fuel Gas Code, as
hereinafter amended (hereinafter the "Fuel Gas Code"). At least one copy of the
2018 International Fuel Gas Code has been on file in the office of the Village
Clerk for a period of at least thirty (30) days prior to the adoption of these
provisions and remains on file in the office of the Village Clerk and is hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. (Ord. 22-27,
10-6-2022)
5-8-2: AMENDING THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE:
The following sections of the Fuel Gas Code are hereby amended as set forth in
this Section 5-8-2. Subsequent section numbers used in this Chapter shall refer
to like numbered sections of the Fuel Gas Code:
   Delete Section 101.1 and replace as follows:
   "101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Hampshire Fuel Gas
Code, hereinafter referred to as this "code."
   103.1 Delete Sections 103.1 and 103.2 and replace as follows:
   "103.1 General. The building official, or his or her authorized designee, as
provided for in the Village of Hampshire Village Code, shall be the code
official in charge of administering this International Fuel Gas Code and shall
be known as the code official."
   106.6 Delete Section 106.6 and replace as follows:
   "106.6 Fees. A permit shall not be issued until the fees prescribed in the
Village of Hampshire Comprehensive Fee Schedule of the Hampshire Code, have
been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional
fee, if any, due to an increase of the mechanical system, has been paid."
   106.6.2 Delete Section 106.6.2 and replace as follows:
   "106.6.2 Fee schedule. The fees for mechanical work shall be as indicated in
village of Hampshire fee schedule."
   106.6.3 Delete Section 106.6.3.
   108.4 Delete Section 108.4 and replace as follows:
   "108.4 Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this
code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall
erect, install, alter or repair work in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to a fine of not
less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues after due notice has been
served shall be deemed a separate offense."
   108.5 Delete Section 108.5 and replace as follows:
   "108.5 Stop work orders. Change last sentence to read: Any person who shall
continue any work on the system after having been served with a stop work
order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a
violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to a fine of not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). Each day work continues after due notice has been served shall be
deemed a separate offense."
   108.6.1 Add new subsection Court Costs and Legal Fees as follows:
   "In the event noncompliance with this code necessitates litigation, any
person who violates a provision of this code shall be liable for court costs
and reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the village of Hampshire."
   109 Delete Section 109.1, 109.2, 109.2.1, 109.2.2, 109.2.3, 109.2.4,
109.2.5, 108.2.6 and replace as follows:
   "Section 109.1 Application for appeal. A person shall have the right to
appeal a decision of the code official to the village board of trustees.
Therefore, for the purposes of this code, the board of appeals shall be
construed to mean the village board of trustees. An application for appeal
shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules
legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of
this code do not fully apply, or an equally good or better form of construction
is proposed. The application shall be in writing and filed with the village
manager within 20 days after the decision of the code official."
   Appendix A: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix B: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix C: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix D: Adopted by reference. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
ARTICLE IX
ILLINOIS ACCESSIBILITY LAW; ILLINOIS ENVIRONMENTAL BARRIERS ACT
SECTION:
5-9-1: Enforcement Of Illinois Accessibility Law
5-9-2: Purpose
5-9-1: ENFORCEMENT OF ILLINOIS ACCESSIBILITY LAW:
The Village shall enforce the provisions of the Illinois Environmental Barriers
Act, 410 ILCS 25/1 et seq., and the regulations adopted hereunder in 71 III.
Admin. Code 400.110 et seq. (collectively "Illinois Accessibility Law") shall
regulate the control of buildings and structures and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the Illinois
Accessibility Law are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part thereof, as
if fully set forth in this Title with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes hereinafter prescribed. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-9-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Illinois Accessibility Code (IAC or Code) is to implement
the Environmental Barriers Act (EBA) [410 ILCS 25] and to replace the former
version of the Code (71 III. Adm. Code 400) effective May 1, 1988. This Code is
intended to ensure that the built environment, including all spaces and
elements of all applicable buildings and facilities in the State of Illinois,
is so designed, constructed, and/or altered to assure the safety and welfare of
all members of society and to be readily accessible to, and usable by,
environmentally limited persons.
This Code is also intended to resolve areas of difference between the federal
accessibility standards, Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility
Guidelines (ADAAG), which are applicable to buildings and facilities covered by
the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), and the Illinois accessibility
standards, IAC, which are applicable to buildings and facilities in the State
of Illinois covered by the EBA. The drafters of this Code compared and adopted
the stricter of State or federal accessible design standards.
This Code, together with the Environmental Barriers Act (EBA) and the standards
incorporated by reference identified in Section 400.120, has the force of a
building code and as such is law in the State of Illinois. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-
2022)
ARTICLE X
INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
5-10-1: Adoption Of Codes
5-10-2: Amendments To The Energy Code
5-10-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
There is hereby adopted by the Village the 2018 International Energy
Conservation Code, with appendices, as hereinafter amended (hereinafter the
"Energy Code"). The provisions of the Illinois Energy Conservation Act, 20 ILCS
1115/1 et seq., and the regulations adopted hereunder, shall apply to all
buildings as specified in the Act and all buildings in the Village of Hampshire
including residential structures. At least one copy of the 2018 International
Energy Conservation Code has been on file in the office of the Village Clerk
for a period of at least thirty (30) days prior to the adoption of these
provisions and remains on file in the office of the Village Clerk and is hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. The Village
is required to enforce the State of Illinois Energy Conservation Code. (Ord.
22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-10-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE ENERGY CODE:
The following sections of the Energy Code are hereby amended as set forth in
this Section 5- 10-2. Subsequent section numbers used in this Chapter shall
refer to like numbered sections of the Energy Code:
   C101 1 Delete Section C101.1 and replace as follows:
   "C101.1 Title. These provisions shall be known as the Hampshire Energy
Conservation Code and shall be cited as such and will be referred to herein as
this "code."
   C104 Delete C104.1 through C104.5 and replace with the following:
   "C104.1 Schedule of Permit Fees. On buildings, structures, electrical, gas,
mechanical, and plumbing systems or alterations requiring a permit, a fee for
each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the Hampshire
municipal code building permit fees, as may be amended from time to time.
   C104.2 Refunds. The code official shall authorize the refunding of fees as
follows:
   1.   The full amount of any fee paid hereunder which was erroneously paid or
collected.
   2.   Not more than 90 percent of the permit fee paid when no work has been
done under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
   3.   No part of the plan review fee paid shall be refunded when the plan
review has been completed and the application for permit is withdrawn.
   The code official shall not authorize the refunding of any fee paid, except
upon written application filed by the original permittee not later than 180
days after the date of fee payment.
   C104.3 Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance. Any person who commences any
work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system
before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to one hundred (100)
percent of the usual permit fee in addition to the required permit fee. In the
event that any building is undertaken without compliance with the above
referenced fee schedule after thirty (30) days when notified of noncompliance,
then and in that event, the responsible owner, contractor, or both, shall be
liable for a fine of not less than $75.00 nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) and one hundred (100) percent of the usual permit fee in
addition to the required permit fee. Each day a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   C104.4 The payment of the fee for the construction, alteration, removal or
demolitions of work done in connection to or concurrently with the work
activity authorized by a permit shall not relieve the applicant or holder of
the permit from the payment of other fees that are prescribed by law."
   Delete Section C109 and replace as follows:
   Section C109 Appeals
   Section C109.1 Application for appeal. A person shall have the right to
appeal a decision of the code official to the village board of trustees.
Therefore, for the purposes of this code, the board of appeals shall be
construed to mean the village board of trustees. An application for appeal
shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules
legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of
this code do not fully apply, or an equally good or better form of construction
is proposed. The application shall be in writing and filed with the village
manager within 20 days after the decision of the code official." (Ord. 22-27,
10-6-2022)
ARTICLE XI
INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
5-11-1: Adoption Of Code
5-11-2: Amendments To The Mechanical Code
5-11-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the Village the 2018 International Mechanical Code,
as hereinafter amended (hereinafter the "Mechanical Code"). At least one copy
of the 2018 International Mechanical Code has been on file in the office of the
Village Clerk for a period of at least thirty (30) days prior to the adoption
of these provisions and remains on file in the office of the Village Clerk, and
is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-11-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE MECHANICAL CODE:
The following sections of the Fuel Gas Code are hereby amended as set forth in
this Section 5-11-2. Subsequent section numbers used in this Chapter shall
refer to like numbered sections of the Mechanical Code:
   101.1 Delete Section 101.1 and replace as follows:
   "101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Hampshire Mechanical
Code, and hereinafter referred to as this "code."
   101.2 Delete Section 103.1 and replace as follows:
   "103.1 General. The building official, or his or her authorized designee,
shall be the code official in charge of administering this International
Mechanical Code and shall be known as the Mechanical Code Official."
   101.3 Delete Section 103.2 and replace as follows:
   "103.2 Appointment. The code official shall be appointed by the chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction with the advice and consent of the
village board. The code official may be removed or replaced at any time with
the advice and consent of the village board."
   106.5.2 Delete Section 106.5.2 and replace as follows:
   "106.5.2 Fees. The fees for mechanical work shall be as stated in the
Hampshire municipal code for building permit fees, as may be amended from time
to time."
   106.5.3 Delete Subsection 106.5.3 and replace as follows:
   "106.5.3 Fee Refunds. The code official shall authorize the refunding of
fees as follows:
   1. The full amount of any fee paid hereunder which was erroneously paid or
collected.
   2. Not more than 90 percent of the permit fee paid when no work has been
done under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
   3. No part of the plan review fee paid shall be refunded when the plan
review has been completed and the application for permit is withdrawn.
   The code official shall not authorize the refunding of any fee paid, except
upon written application filed by the original permittee not later than 180
days after the date of fee payment."
   108.4 Delete Section 108.4 and replace as follows:
   "108.4 Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this
code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall
erect, install, alter or repair mechanical work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to a
fine of not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues after due notice has
been served shall be deemed a separate offense."
   108.4.1 Add new subsection Court Costs and Legal Fees:
   In the event noncompliance with this code necessitates litigation, any
person who violates a provision of this code shall be liable for court costs
and reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the village of Hampshire."
   108.5 Delete Section 108.5 and replace as follows:
   "108.5 Stop work orders. Last sentence to read: Any person who shall
continue any work on the system after having been served with a stop work
order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove the
violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to a fine of not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). Each day unauthorized work continues after due notice has been
served shall be deemed a separate offense."
   109 Delete Section 109 and replace as follows:
   "Section 109 Application for Appeal. A person shall have the right to appeal
a decision of the code official to the village board of trustees. Therefore,
for the purposes of this code, the board of appeals shall be construed to mean
the village board of trustees. An application for appeal shall be based on a
claim that the true intent of this code, or the rules legally adopted
thereunder, have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do
not fully apply, or an equally good or better form of construction is proposed.
The application shall be in writing and filed with the village manager within
20 days after the decision of the code official."
   109.2 Delete Section 109.2
   109.5 Delete Section 109.5 and replace as follows:
   "109.5 Postponed Hearing. When a quorum is not present to hear an appeal,
the matter shall be continued to another date convenient to all parties" (Ord.
22-27, 10-6-2022)
ARTICLE XII
INTERNATIONAL GREEN CONSTRUCTION CODE
SECTION:
5-12-1: Adoption Of 2018 International Green Construction Code
5-12-1: ADOPTION OF 2018 INTERNATIONAL GREEN CONSTRUCTION CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the Village the 2018 International Green
Construction Code (hereinafter the "Green Construction Code"). At least one
copy of the 2018 International Green Construction Code has been on file in the
office of the Village Clerk for a period of at least thirty (30) days prior to
the adoption of these provisions and remains on file in the office of the
Village Clerk and is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length herein.
The Village recognizes the use of "green" or sustainable building practices. As
such, the Village has identified the 2018 International Green Construction Code
as a useful minimum standard for permit applicants who wish to follow green
building practices. Those persons who desire to use sustainable building
practices are encouraged to utilize the 2018 International Green Construction
Standard or to consult with the Code Official to identify other appropriate
sustainable building standards for either residential or non-residential
building projects. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
ARTICLE XIII
INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE
SECTION:
5-13-1: Adoption Of 2018 International Swimming Pool And Spa Code
5-13-2: Amendments to the Swimming Pool Code
5-13-1: ADOPTION OF 2018 INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the Village the 2018 International Swimming Pool and
Spa Code, as hereafter amended (hereinafter the "Swimming Pool Code"). At least
one copy of the 2018 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code has been on file
in the office of the Village Clerk for a period of at least thirty (30) days
prior to the adoption of these provisions and remains on file in the office of
the Village Clerk and is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out
at length herein.
The State of Illinois has promulgated rules and regulations for public swimming
pools, spas and beaches under Illinois Administrative Code Title 77 Chapter 1
Subchapter n Part 820. Additional references to this can be found under 210
ILCS 125 et seq. The adoption of the 2018 International Swimming Pool and Spa
Code does not supersede the State of Illinois rules and regulations/laws unless
the Swimming Pool Code is more restrictive in requirements. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-
2022)
5-13-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE SWIMMING POOL CODE:
The following sections of the Swimming Pool Code are hereby amended as set
forth in this Section 5-13-2. Subsequent section numbers used in this Chapter
shall refer to like numbered sections of the Swimming Pool Code:
   101.1 Delete Section 101.1 and replace as follows:
   "101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Hampshire Swimming
Pool and Spa Code, hereinafter referred to as this "code."
   103.1 Delete Sections 103.1 and 103.2 and replace as follows:
   "103.1 General. The building official, or his or her authorized designee, as
provided for in the Village of Hampshire Village Code, shall be the code
official in charge of administering this International Swimming Pool and Spa
Code and shall be known as the code official."
   105.6 Delete Section 105.6 and replace as follows:
   "105.6 Fees. A permit shall not be issued until the fees prescribed in the
Village of Hampshire Comprehensive Fee Schedule of the Hampshire Code, have
been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional
fee, if any, due to an increase of the installation has been paid."
   1.1.6.2 Delete Section 106.6.2 and replace as follows:
   "106.6.2 Fee schedule. The fees for mechanical work shall be as indicated in
Village of Hampshire building permit fees as may be amended from time to time."
   1.2.6.3 Delete Section 106.6.3.
   107.4 Delete Section 107.4 and replace as follows:
   "107.4 Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this
code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall
erect, install, alter or repair work in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to a fine of not
less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues after due notice has been
served shall be deemed a separate offense."
   107.5 Delete Section 107.5 and replace as follows:
   "108.5 Stop work orders. Change last sentence to read: Any person who shall
continue any work on the system after having been served with a stop work
order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a
violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to a fine of not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). Each day work continues after due notice has been served shall be
deemed a separate offense."
   Add new subsection Court Costs and Legal Fees as follows:
   "In the event noncompliance with this code necessitates litigation, any
person who violates a provision of this code shall be liable for court costs
and reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the Village of Hampshire."
   109 Delete Section 108.1, 108.2, 108.2.1, 108.2.2, 108.2.3, 108.2.4,
108.2.5,
   108.2.6 and replace as follows: "Section 109.1 Application for appeal. A
person shall have the right to appeal a decision of the code official to the
village board of trustees. Therefore, for the purposes of this code, the board
of appeals shall be construed to mean the village board of trustees. An
application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this
code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted,
the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an equally good or better
form of construction is proposed. The application shall be in writing and filed
with the village manager within 20 days after the decision of the code
official."
   Appendix A: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix B: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix C: Adopted by reference.
   Appendix D: Adopted by reference. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
ARTICLE XIV
NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION STANDARDS (NFPA)
SECTION:
5-14-1: Adoption Of National Fire Protection Association Standards (NFPA)
5-14-1: ADOPTION OF NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION STANDARDS (NFPA):
There is hereby adopted by the Village the most current version of National
Fire Protection Association Standards including NFPA 101-Life Safety Code (or
most recent version), At least one copy of the National Fire Protection
Association Standards have been on file in the office of the Village Clerk for
a period of at least thirty (30) days prior to the adoption of these provisions
and remains on file in the office of the Village Clerk, and is hereby adopted
and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein.
   Exception: Delete the adoption of NFPA 1, NFPA 70 and NFPA 5000
   Exception: NFPA 101 Requirements for Fire Sprinklers shall be as found in
Articles 2,3, and 5 of this Chapter. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
ARTICLE XV
INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
5-15-1: Adoption Of 2018 International Existing Building Code
5-15-2: Amendments to the Existing Building Code
5-15-1: ADOPTION OF 2018 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the Village the 2018 International Existing Building
Code, as hereinafter amended (hereinafter the "Existing Building Code"). At
least one copy of the 2018 International Existing Building Code has been on
file in the office of the Village Clerk for a period of at least thirty (30)
days prior to the adoption of these provisions and remains on file in the
office of the Village Clerk and is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as
if set out at length herein. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-15-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
The following sections of the Existing Building Code are hereby amended as set
forth in this Section 5-15-2. Subsequent section numbers used in this Chapter
shall refer to like numbered sections of the Existing Building Code:
   101.1 Delete Section 101.1 and replace as follows:
   "101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Hampshire Swimming
Pool and Spa Code, hereinafter referred to as this "code."
   103.1 Delete Sections 103.1 and 103.2 and replace as follows:
   "103.1 General. The building official, or his or her authorized designee, as
provided for in the Village of Hampshire Village Code, shall be the code
official in charge of administering this International Swimming Pool and Spa
Code and shall be known as the code official."
   105.1.3 Delete Section 105.6 and replace as follows:
   "105.1.3 Fees. A permit shall not be issued until the fees prescribed in the
Village of Hampshire Comprehensive Fee Schedule of the Hampshire Code, have
been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional
fee, if any, due to an increase of the installation has been paid."
   108.2 Delete Section 108.2 and replace as follows:
   "108.2 Fee schedule. The fees for permit work shall be as indicated in
Village of Hampshire building permit fees as may be amended from time to time."
   108.6 Delete Section 108.6
   112 Delete Section 112.1, 112.3 and replace as follows:
   "Section 112.1 Application for appeal. A person shall have the right to
appeal a decision of the code official to the village board of trustees.
Therefore, for the purposes of this code, the board of appeals shall be
construed to mean the village board of trustees. An application for appeal
shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules
legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of
this code do not fully apply, or an equally good or better form of construction
is proposed. The application shall be in writing and filed with the village
manager within 20 days after the decision of the code official."
   113.4 Delete Section 113.4 and replace as follows:
   "113.4 Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this
code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall
erect, install, alter or repair work in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to a fine of not
less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues after due notice has been
served shall be deemed a separate offense."
   114.3 Delete Section 114.3 and amend as follows:
   "114.3 Stop work orders. Change last sentence to read: Any person who shall
continue any work on the system after having been served with a stop work
order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a
violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to a fine of not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). Each day work continues after due notice has been served shall be
deemed a separate offense."
   114 4 Add new subsection Court Costs and Legal Fees as follows:
   "In the event noncompliance with this code necessitates litigation, any
person who violates a provision of this code shall be liable for court costs
and reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the Village of Hampshire." (Ord. 22-
27, 10-6-2022)
ARTICLE XVI
INTERNATIONAL SOLAR ENERGY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-16-1: Adoption Of 2018 International Solar Energy Provisions
5-16-1: ADOPTION OF 2018 INTERNATIONAL SOLAR ENERGY PROVISIONS:
There is hereby adopted by the Village the 2018 international Solar Energy
Provisions (hereinafter the "Solar Energy Code"). At least one copy of the 2018
International Solar Energy Provisions has been on file in the office of the
Village Clerk for a period of at least thirty (30) days prior to the adoption
of these provisions and remains on file in the office of the Village Clerk and
is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein.
The International Solar Energy Provisions meet's the industry's need for a
resource that contains the complete solar energy-related provisions from the
2018 International Codes and NFPA 70 2017 NEC National Electrical Code and
selected standards in one document. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
ARTICLE XVII
INTERNATIONAL WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
SECTION:
5-17-1: Adoption Of 2018 Wildland-Urban Interface Code
5-17-2: Amendments To The Interface Code
5-17-1: ADOPTION OF 2018 WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the Village the 2018 International Wildland-Urban
Interface Code (hereinafter the "Interface Code"). At least one copy of the
2018 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code has been on file in the office
of the Village Clerk for a period of at least thirty (30) days prior to the
adoption of these provisions and remains on file in the office of the Village
Clerk and is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
herein.
This code establishes minimum requirements for land use and the built
environment in designated wildland-urban interface areas using prescriptive and
performance-related provisions. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-17-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERFACE CODE:
The following sections of the Interface Code are hereby amended as set forth in
this Section 5-17-2. Subsequent section numbers used in this Chapter shall
refer to like numbered sections of the Interface Code:
   101.1 Delete Section 101.1 and replace as follows:
   "101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Hampshire Wildland
Urban Interface Code, and hereinafter referred to as this "code."
   103.1 Delete Section 103.1 and replace as follows:
   "103.1 General. The building official, or his or her authorized designee,
shall be the code official in charge of administering this International
Mechanical Code and shall be known as the Mechanical Code Official."
   103.2 Delete Section 103.2 and replace as follows:
   "103.2 Appointment. The code official shall be appointed by the chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction with the advice and consent of the
village board. The code official may be removed or replaced at any time with
the advice and consent of the village board.
   106.3 Add new Section 106.3:
   "Section 106.3 Application for Appeal. A person shall have the right to
appeal a decision of the code official to the village board of trustees.
Therefore, for the purposes of this code, the board of appeals shall be the
village board of trustees. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim
that the true intent of this code, or the rules legally adopted thereunder,
have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully
apply, or an equally good or better form of construction is proposed. The
application shall be in writing and filed with the village manager within 20
days after the decision of the code official."
   109.2 Delete Section 109.2 and replace as follows:
   "109.2 Fees. The fees for permit work shall be as stated in the Village of
Hampshire building permit fees, as may be amended from time to time."
   110.4.7 Delete Section 110.4.7 and replace as follows:
   "110.4.7 Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this
code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall
erect, install, alter or repair mechanical work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to a
fine of not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues after due notice has
been served shall be deemed a separate offense."
   110.4.9 Add new subsection Court Costs and Legal Fees:
   "110.4.9 Court Costs and Legal Fees. In the event noncompliance with this
code necessitates litigation, any person who violates a provision of this code
shall be liable for court costs and reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the
village of Hampshire."
   114.4 Amend Section 114.4 as follows:
   "114.4 Stop work orders. Add the following to the end of the existing
sentence: Any person who shall continue any work on the system/project after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove the violation or unsafe condition, shall be
subject to a fine of not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day unauthorized work continues
after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense."
   115 Add new Section 115:
   "Section 115 Application for Appeal. A person shall have the right to appeal
a decision of the code official to the village board of trustees. Therefore,
for the purposes of this code, the board of appeals shall be the village board
of trustees. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this code, or the rules legally adopted thereunder, have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an
equally good or better form of construction is proposed. The application shall
be in writing and filed with the village manager within 20 days after the
decision of the code official." (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
ARTICLE XVIII
RESIDENTIAL DESIGN
SECTION:
5-18-1: Definitions
5-18-2: Appearance Code
5-18-3: Building Permit
5-18-1: DEFINITIONS:
                              A lot with a side yard property line, when
ACROSS THE STREET:            projected across the street, intersects the front
                              property line of the subject lot or a lot with a
                              rear yard property line which adjoins a street.
ADJACENT TO:                  Lots sharing a side yard property line.
CONTIGUOUS LOT:               Shares a common property line extended across the
                              street with such lot.
                              The net surface area, excluding windows, doors
FRONT FACADE/FRONT ELEVATION: and garages, that faces a street and includes a
                              main entry to the building.
                              Covered porches, boxed out bays/projections;
MAJOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES: decorative dormers, Juliet balconies, metal
                              roofs. (10 percent credit for each.)
MASONRY PRODUCTS:             Brick, stone, split face brick or architectural
                              blocks.
PREMIUM SIDING MATERIAL:      Masonry products, cultured stone, natural wood
                              siding and synthetic stucco.
                              The net surface area, excluding windows, doors
REAR FACADE/REAR ELEVATION:   and garages, that is the opposite side of the
                              building from where the main entrance to the
                              building is located. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
 
5-18-2: APPEARANCE CODE:
   A.   Objectives:
      1.   The fostering of:
         a.   Sound and harmonious design of new residential buildings and
sites,
         b.   Better maintenance of properties through encouragement of
preservation, upkeep, protection and care,
         c.   Greater public interest and enthusiasm in overall community
beauty, appearance, cleanliness and order.
      2.   Establish standards for new residential construction and development
with respect to, but not limited to, buildings, streetscapes and landscapes.
      3.   Encourage creative non monotonous community designs utilizing design
professionals.
   B.   Applicability:
      1.   The provisions of this code shall apply to building permits for new
residential construction applied for after the execution of this article.
         a.   The standards in this code shall be prorated when being applied
to additions to all principal buildings or major reconstruction (i.e., twenty-
five (25) percent of the facade is removed and/or different type of facade
material is used and/or if the size of windows/doors are being modified by more
than twenty-five (25) percent) done to multiple single-family dwellings
(townhomes) or multiple-family buildings.
         b.   Additions and/or major facade work shall be assessed on a
cumulative basis (i.e., if a ten (10) percent modification is conducted at one
time and later another ten (10) percent modification is made, the cumulative
impact is twenty (20) percent and therefore, a twenty (20) percent compliance
ratio is expected).
      2.   The provisions of this code shall not apply to.
         a.   Those buildings where siding is being replaced with similar
siding materials.
         b.   Any planned development already approved prior to the adoption
hereof unless so stipulated in the development agreement.
   C.   Procedures:
      1.   The building official, or his/her designee, shall review the plan
and/or drawing of the exterior design of every building and site to be
constructed in the village for compliance with this code, prior to the issuance
of a building permit.
      2.   Any appeals to this code, or the building official's determination
of compliance with this article, shall be made in writing and submitted to the
village manager. The village manager shall direct such requests to the planning
and zoning commission, which shall make a recommendation to the village board
of trustees. The village board's decision shall be final.
      3.   The planning and zoning commission shall consider the following
points prior to providing the village board with a written recommendation:
         a.   Will the objectives outlined in subsection A of this section be
met if the requested deviations are granted?
         b.   Is there a particular physical condition of the specific property
and/or building(s) involved that would create a particular hardship to the
owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the strict letter of
these regulations were carried out?
         c.   Will granting the requested deviation from these regulations be
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other property or
improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located?
         d.   Will granting the requested deviation impair an adequate supply
of light and air to buildings on the subject property or to the adjacent
property?
         e.   Will granting the requested deviation increase the danger to the
public safety, or substantially diminish or impair property values within the
neighborhood?
   D.   Criteria For Appearance:
      1.   General: Creativity and ingenuity in applying the standards and
guidelines listed in this section are encouraged.
      2.   Landscaping and Site Treatment:
         a.   The provisions of the village landscaping regulations, as amended
from time to time, shall apply.
         b.   Exterior lighting, when used, shall enhance the building design
and the adjoining landscape. Lighting standards and fixtures shall be of a
design and size compatible with the building and adjacent areas. Lighting shall
be restrained in design and excessive brightness and brilliant colors avoided
and shall be in accordance with all provisions of the village's adopted energy
conservation code. Maximum illumination at the property line shall not exceed
0.1 foot-candle and no glare shall spill onto adjacent properties or rights of
way.
      4.   Residential:
         a.   Single-family (detached) dwelling (SFD) and two-family (duplex)
dwellings:
            (1)   Unless stated otherwise within this article, no residential
dwelling's front elevation shall be similar in appearance unless two (2) or
more buildings of dissimilar design separate the buildings, insuring a minimum
three hundred twenty-foot (320') separation between two (2) like designs.
            (2)   Unless stated otherwise within this article, when adjacent
lots have rear lot lines backing to a street, none of the rear elevations shall
be similar in appearance unless two (2) or more buildings of dissimilar design
separate the buildings.
            (3)   A newly constructed residential building's front and rear
elevations shall be dissimilar in appearance to another residential building
across the street from, or adjacent to, the newly constructed building.
            (4)   A residential dwelling on a corner lot is not considered
similar to one adjacent to it if the two (2) dwellings face different streets.
            (5)   On cul-de-sacs not more than two (2) dwellings shall be
similar in appearance on any lots having front lot lines contributing to the
arc of the cul-de-sac.
            (6)   For the purpose of this section, "similar in appearance"
shall mean a residential building, which is identical to another, in
combination with any four (4) or more of the following architectural
characteristics:
               (A)   Roof type (gable, hip, mansard, gambrel, flat,
combination).
               (B)   Height of roof ridge above finished grade of property.
               (C)   Dimensions (height and length) and shape of the facades
facing the front lot line.
               (D)   Locations and sizes of windows, doors (including garage
doors) and ornamental work on the facade facing a front lot line.
               (E)   Type of facade, materials (i.e., brick veneer, lapped
horizontal siding, half timber, board and batten, shakes, etc.) on the facade
facing a lot line.
               (F)   Porch dimension and elevation treatment.
            (7)   A building is considered dissimilar when less than four (4)
of the above characteristics exist among subject dwellings.
            (8)   No two (2) structures within three hundred twenty feet (320')
shall be of the same color or similar shades of color.
         b.   Multiple single-family (attached), i.e., townhomes, and multiple-
family dwellings: The intent of this subsection is to create a "sense of
community." This can be achieved through careful site planning as well as
thoughtful building design and color selections.
            (1)   The building footprint of single-family attached and multi-
family buildings can be the same. However, the facade treatments must vary
between buildings that are adjacent to one another, so that there are two or
more structures between buildings of similar facades. Facade variations may
include building materials or colors in any one or more of the following:
               (A)   Siding;
               (B)   Masonry;
               (C)   Roof;
               (D)   Paint/stain; and
               (E)   Doors.
            (2)   Sites where requested setbacks and yards are less than the
minimum zoning district requirements must provide an interesting relationship
between buildings.
            (3)   Parking areas shall be treated with decorative elements,
building wall extensions, plantings, berms and other innovative means so as to
largely screen parking areas from view from public ways.
            (4)   The height and scale of each building shall be compatible
with its site and adjoining buildings.
            (5)   Newly installed utility services, and service revisions
necessitated by exterior alterations shall be underground.
            (6)   The architectural character of the building shall be in
keeping with the topographical dictates of the site.
            (7)   Masonry products shall be incorporated on the front facade of
at least seventy five percent (75%) of the total buildings in the approved
community, and shall incorporate a minimum of fifty percent (50%) premium
siding material on the front facade. No less than half (twenty-five (25)
percent of the total) of the minimum "premium siding" requirements must
incorporate masonry products. Credit toward the remaining "premium siding"
requirement can be earned via the use of major architectural features. Each
major architectural feature used will earn a credit often percent (10%) towards
the calculation of the minimum premium siding requirement.
            (8)   Pedestrian features/amenities, such as covered walkways,
street furniture, and bicycle rack facilities, are encouraged.
            (9)   Common open space and outdoor features are encouraged. (Ord.
22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-18-3: BUILDING PERMIT:
No building permit otherwise required under the terms of this chapter shall be
issued without compliance with the conditions of this article. (Ord. 22-27, 10-
6-2022)
ARTICLE XIX
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED FOR BUILDING PERMITS,
CONSTRUCTION, AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY
SECTION:   
5-19-1: Permit Application Supporting Documentation
5-19-2: Top Of Foundation Survey
5-19-3: Certificate of Occupancy
5-19-4: Accessory Buildings And Structures
5-19-1: PERMIT APPLICATION SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION:
The following documentation shall accompany any building permit application for
construction of a new primary or accessory structure or addition:
   A.   Site Plan: A building permit applicant shall provide a site plan/plat
of survey which includes:
      1.   Lot lines, lot dimensions, building lines, and easements.
      2.   Proposed building top of foundation elevation and building
dimensions.
      3.   Existing or proposed curb elevation, B-box and sewer stub locations,
and village utility lines (water, sanitary, and storm sewer, if applicable)
located in the parkway or alongside or rear lot lines.
      4.   Proposed lot grading, shown in one foot (1') contour intervals in
compliance with the development's previously approved grading plan.
      5.   A benchmark within two hundred feet (200') of the site, using the
same datum as the approved development plan.
      6.   The signature and seal of the Illinois licensed professional
engineer with the following statement:
I hereby certify that this plan was prepared under my direct supervision and is
in compliance with the approved development grading plan.
   B.   Proof Of Payment:
      1.   Proof of payment of any fees due pursuant to the current building
permit fee posting.
      2.   Proof of payment of any fees or obligation due the village under any
other section of this code.
      3.   Official receipt from Kane County evidencing payment of the fee due
under the county's road improvement impact fee ordinance in effect at the time
of said application. For purposes of this section, the village may accept and
rely on any receipt bearing the official seal of Kane County, Illinois. In
addition to any other applicable grounds, it shall be grounds for suspension or
revocation of any permit issued by the village if:
         a.   No such receipt was included with the permit application and/or
filed with the village;
         b.   Any such receipt is false; or
         c.   The required road improvement impact fee was not paid to the
county. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-19-2: TOP OF FOUNDATION SURVEY:
For review of substantial compliance with the site plan, a completed top of
foundation and setback from property lines plat of survey shall be submitted
prior to "decking" the foundation. This survey shall document:
   A.   Lot lines, lot dimensions, building lines, and easements.
   B.   As built location, including the actual (built) top of foundation
elevation and location (i.e., setbacks from each lot line).
   C.   The seal of an Illinois professional land surveyor or engineer. (Ord.
22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-19-3: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Required. All projects for new primary or accessory
structures or additions shall require a certificate of occupancy in accordance
with Section
5-1-13.
   B.   Submittals. Prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy, the
permit holder shall provide the following:
      1.   For review of substantial compliance with the approved site plan, an
as built grading plan showing the following information:
         a.   Finished grade of lot using one foot (1') contour intervals, with
spot elevations at locations indicated on the approved site plan review.
         b.   The seal of an Illinois licensed professional engineer with the
following statement:
I hereby certify that this plan was prepared under my direct supervision and
correctly represents the as-built condition of the property described above on
(DATE) and the final grading will function in compliance with the approved
development grading plan.   
   2.   Proof of payment of any fees or obligation due the village under any
chapter of this code. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-19-4: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
The building official, or his/her designee, may in his/her discretion waive any
requirement in this section, unless otherwise required by law, for any
accessory building or structure after finding that such requirement is
unnecessary to properly enforce the regulations of this chapter and that such
waiver will not be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other
property or improvements. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
ARTICLE XX
REIMBURSEMENT OF CERTAIN FEES
SECTION:
5-20-1: Engineering, Legal, Consultant Fees
5-20-1: ENGINEERING, LEGAL, CONSULTANT FEES:
All fees incurred by the village for engineering, legal, and/or other
consultant services rendered in regard to any petition, proposal, or other
inquiry related to this chapter shall be billed to and paid by the person(s)
who makes the petition, proposal, or other inquiry for which the services are
rendered. No building permit, conditional certificate of occupancy, or
certificate of occupancy shall be issued for the property, which is the subject
of the requested action if, at the time of permit or certificate issuance, any
such fees are outstanding and unpaid in regard to said property. (Ord. 22-27,
10-6-2022)
ARTICLE XXI
BUILDING PERMIT FEES
SECTION:
5-21-1: Established
5-21-1: ESTABLISHED:
Building permit fees shall be set from time to time by the village board of
trustees. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
ARTICLE XXII
TREES AND GENERAL LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
5-22-1: Purpose
5-22-2: Tree Preservation And Removal Regulations
5-22-3: Landscaping And Screening Regulations
5-22-1: PURPOSE:
This article is established to create uniform landscape, screening and tree
preservation standards for development of property in the village and review of
plans therefor, in order to ensure that the village remains attractive, safe
and comfortable. Landscaping required by this article shall be a condition to
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any improvements built on a lot
in the village. The landscape standards herein are established for the
following purposes:
   A.   To promote, protect and preserve the general health and safety of the
people of the community and, as part of the general welfare, ensure aesthetic
compatibility among land uses within the community;
   B.   To conserve soil and reduce soil erosion, reduce stormwater runoff, to
provide oxygen regeneration to enhance air quality, and to reduce the effects
of urban heat islands;
   C.   To minimize the harmful or nuisance effects resulting from noise, dust,
debris, motor exhaust, headlight glare, artificial light intrusions,
objectionable sights or activities, or similar incompatible impacts conducted
or created by adjoining or nearby land use;
   D.   To safeguard the environmental quality and aesthetic character of the
community by limiting the removal and ensuring replacement of trees upon
private property within the village;
   E.   To preserve, as is practical, existing vegetation and topographical
features by limiting unnecessary clearing and modification of land, encouraging
the retention of existing mature trees, and requiring the replacement of
indigenous trees with approved species; and
   F.   To encourage the energy efficient operation of land uses in the public
interest. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-22-2: TREE PRESERVATION AND REMOVAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: A tree removal permit shall be required for the
destruction or removal of any tree in the village having a trunk diameter at
breast height (DBH) of four inches (4") or greater measured at four and one-
half feet (4.5') above ground level or as otherwise currently defined for DBH
measurements in the most current edition of the Guide for Plant Appraisal
published by the International Society of Arboriculture. It shall be unlawful
for any person to remove or cause the destruction or removal of any such tree
without having first obtained such permit.
   B.   Requirement Exceptions: The requirements of this article shall not
apply to the removal of any tree by an owner of any private property otherwise
improved with a single-family, two-family or duplex dwelling located thereon;
and shall not apply to removal of any tree pursuant to a forestry management or
nursery stock plan which has been approved or is administered by a federal or
state agency.
   C.   Application: Any person desiring to obtain a tree removal permit shall
file with the village engineer an application therefor on the prescribed form,
together with such supporting documents as required by this Section or
otherwise required by the village engineer, and with such fee as has been from
time to time established therefor by the village board of trustees.
      1.   For tree removal in conjunction with new construction of any new
building(s), structure(s) or other site improvements in the village requiring a
building permit or engineering approval, the applicant shall submit a tree
preservation and removal plan, together with any site and/or landscape plan
otherwise required under this code; the tree preservation and removal plan
shall include the following information:
         a.   Location and dimensions of all existing and proposed buildings,
walls, improvements, and structures.
         b.   Identification of uses on adjacent properties within two hundred
fifty feet (250') of the site.
         c.   Location and dimensions of all off street parking areas and
access roads.
         d.   A tree survey overlaid directly upon the site plan, indicating
the location, botanic name, and condition of all trees on the property. The
survey shall distinguish among trees to be preserved, transplanted, and/or
destroyed. Groups of trees which are less than three feet (3') apart may be
designated by clumps, provided that all trees with a twelve-inch (12") caliper
or greater must be individually depicted. The village engineer may allow the
applicant to exclude an area or areas of the site from said tree survey if it
is determined that the proposed construction or other activity will not impact
such area(s).
         e.   A description of the methods that are to be utilized to remove
and preserve the trees identified in the tree survey during site development
and/or tree removal.
         f.   A written statement indicating the reason for removal of the tree
(s).
      2.   For tree removal on property with an existing building or structure,
when no building permit or engineering approval is otherwise required at the
time, and when it is proposed to remove a tree of six-inch (6") caliper or
greater from said property, the applicant shall submit with the application the
following information:
         a.   A site plan which depicts the tree(s) to be removed, the area of
the property from which the tree(s) may be removed, and all other trees of six-
inch (6") caliper in proximity to the tree(s) proposed for removal. All such
trees shall be identified by species, location and size (caliper).
         b.   Written reasons for removing the trees.
         c.   Any reports or studies, if any, indicating that the trees should
be removed.
      3.   Upon receipt of a completed application with the required fee, the
village engineer shall review the application, in accordance with the following
principles:
         a.   A property owner shall have the right to full use and enjoyment
of his property, subject to the requirements of this article.
         b.   A tree removal permit shall issue only when all other reasonably
practical alternatives have been exhausted.
         c.   If deemed necessary in the discretion of the village engineer,
review of the application by an arborist or other professional, and/or a site
inspection, may be required before granting or denying a permit application.
   D.   Removal During Construction: Any tree intended to be removed, or
unintentionally removed, destroyed or damaged, during construction on the
parcel shall be replaced in the following manner:
      1.   In the event that a tree is designated for removal during the
construction process, such tree shall be replaced with a new tree or trees in
accordance with the following schedule:
 
Caliper (In Inches) Of Tree To Be Removed Number Of Replacement Trees
30 or greater                             6
13 - 29                                   5
4 - 12                                    4
 
      2.   The requirement for replacement in subsection D1 of this section
shall not apply to removal of a tree of any of the following species:
         a.   Black locust (Robinia psuedoacacia);
         b.   Box elder (Acer negundo);
         c.   Buckthorn (Rhamnus cathartica);
         d.   Chokecherry (Prunus virginiana);
         e.   Cottonwood (Populus deltoides);
         f.   Laurel willow (Salix pentandra);
         g.   Mulberry (Morus sp.);
         h.   Osage orange (Maclura pomifera);
         i.   Russian olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia);
         j.   Siberian elm (Ulmus pumila);
         k.   Thornless honey locust (cultivars);
         l.   Tree of heaven (Ailanthus altissma); or
         m.   Weeping willow (Salix baylonica).
      3.   In the event that a tree designated for preservation is removed,
destroyed, or damaged during the construction process, such tree shall be
replaced with new trees in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Caliper (In Inches) Of Tree To Be Removed Number Of Replacement Trees
30 or greater                             10
13 - 29                                   8
4 - 12                                    6
 
      4.   All replacement trees shall have a minimum caliper size of three
inches (3") at a height of six inches (6") above ground level.
      5.   Replacement trees shall consist of the following species:
         a.   American beech;
         b.   American linden cultivars;
         c.   Black maple;
         d.   Crimean linden;
         e.   English oak and cultivars;
         f.   European beech;
         g.   Freeman maple cultivars;
         h.   Green ash cultivars;
         i.   Ginkgo;
         j.   Hackberry;
         k.   Horse chestnut;
         l.   Little leaf linden cultivars;
         m.   Norway maple cultivars (excluding red leaf varieties);
         n.   Oak trees of any type;
         o.   Red maple cultivars;
         p.   Silver linden cultivars;
         q.   Sugar maple cultivars;
         r.   Tulip tree; and
         s.   White ash cultivars.
      6.   Additionally, the following elm cultivars are considered disease and
insect resistant: "Frontier", "Pioneer", "New Horizon", "Morton", "Accolade",
"Homestead", "Regal", "Morton Glossy" and "Prospector".
      7.   The tree preservation and removal plan shall identify each
replacement tree as a replacement tree and indicate its location, species, and
size.
Replacement trees required under this section shall not be used to satisfy the
requirements otherwise stated in this article for tree planting in a public
right of way or in a parking lot.
      8.   Removal of trees designated for preservation shall be allowed only
by amending the tree preservation and removal plan.
      9.   Tree preservation and replacement required by this article shall be
a condition to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any improvements
constructed on any parcel in the village.
      10.   If it is impractical to plant the required number of replacement
trees on the property which is the subject of the tree removal permit, due to
space limitations or the density of existing trees, the village manager may
instead allow the permittee to plant said tree(s) on public property in the
village or to pay a fee per replacement tree to provide for future tree
plantings by the village.
   E.   Expiration Of Permit: A tree removal permit shall expire and become
null and void if work authorized by the tree removal permit is not commenced
within one year from the date of issuance of the permit, or if such work, once
commenced, is suspended or abandoned at any time for a period of ninety (90)
days thereafter. Upon good cause shown, the tree removal permit may be extended
for a period of up to six (6) months by the village engineer.
   F.   Transplanting Or Replacement Required: No building permit or occupancy
permit shall be issued until any transplanting or replacement of trees required
by a tree removal permit issued for the property has been completed, and the
final tree inspection approval has been given by the village engineer. Should
it be determined that, due to the time of year when the building permit or
occupancy permit has been requested, the transplanting and replacement of trees
should be deferred until a more suitable time, a building permit or occupancy
permit may be issued on the following conditions:
      1.   The permittee shall provide the village with a cash bond in an
amount equal to the cost of the transplanting or replacement of trees, as
estimated by the village engineer.
      2.   If the permittee completes all required tree transplanting or
replacement within the time frame specified by the village engineer, the bond
shall be returned to the permittee.
      3.   Should the permittee fail to complete the transplanting or
replacement within the established time period, the village may elect to use
the cash bond to hire an independent landscaper to complete the required tree
transplanting or replacement. The permittee, as a condition of the tree removal
permit, grants to the village the right of access and authorization to complete
the transplanting or replacement described in the permit. Any bond funds
remaining after the work has been completed will then be returned to the
permittee.
   G.   Standards And Criteria: The following standards and criteria shall
apply to tree preservation and removal:
      1.   Every reasonable effort shall be made to retain existing trees on
the aforementioned tree survey through the integration of those trees into the
site plan and landscape plan for a proposed development.
      2.   Grading and construction equipment shall be forbidden from
encroaching within the drip line of a tree.
      3.   Snow fencing shall be temporarily installed at the periphery of the
tree's drip line.
      4.   Tree trunks and branches shall be protected when construction must
occur within a tree drip line.
      5.   Crushed limestone hydrocarbons and other material detrimental to
trees shall not be stored or dumped within the drip line of any tree nor at any
higher location where drainage toward the tree could conceivably affect the
health of the tree.
      6.   Toxic chemicals, gasoline, oil and other injurious substances shall
not be stored or allowed to seep, drain or empty within one hundred feet (100')
of the drip line of protected trees.
      7.   No grade changes shall be allowed under the drip line of any trees
designated for preservation.
      8.   No ropes, signs, wires, unprotected electrical installation or other
device or material shall be secured or fastened around or through a protected
tree.
      9.   To improve the survival rate of trees, root pruning and/or thinning
shall be performed in accordance with the "Arboricultural Specifications
Manual."
      10.   In the event that underground utility lines are proposed within
five feet (5') of the trunk of a tree, then auguring of the utility line should
be considered and may be required by the village.
   H.   Appeals: Any person aggrieved by any decision of the village engineer
under the requirements of this article may appeal to the village board of
trustees, by filing with the village manager, within twenty (20) days after the
date of the aggrieving decision, a written notice of appeal, which shall set
forth the decision appealed from and the reasons or grounds for the appeal. The
decision of the village board of trustees shall be final and no petition for
rehearing or reconsideration shall be considered.
   I.   Penalty: Any person who violates any of the regulations of this
section, shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum of not less than two hundred
dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), and a
separate offense shall be deemed to have been committed for each tree which is
cut down, removed, destroyed or damaged without the issuance of a tree removal
permit.
   J.   Replacements: In the event that a person shall remove, damage or
destroy a tree without having first secured a tree removal permit, in addition
to the penalty in subsection I of this section, shall plant a replacement tree
of not less than three inch (3") caliper, and of a variety identified in
subsection D5 of this section, within ninety (90) days of written notice from
the village. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-22-3: LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Landscape Plan Reguired: A landscape plan prepared in accordance with
the standards set forth in this article shall be required for any land
development requiring a site plan review. Landscaping and screening required by
this article shall be a condition to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy
for any improvements built on a zoning lot in the village.
   B.   Landscape Plan Completed by Architect: A landscape plan shall be
completed by a landscape architect. Applicants may elect to prepare a landscape
plan in two (2) phases: a preliminary landscape plan, and a final landscape
plan; otherwise a final landscape plan shall be required. Requests for relief
or revisions to the requirements of this article may be submitted to the
village for consideration.
   C.   Preliminary Landscape Plan: A preliminary landscape plan shall include
the following information:
      1.   The name, address and phone number of the landscape architect who
prepared the plan; scale (minimum 1" = 30'); north arrow; date of preparation;
and identification of the plan as a preliminary landscape plan. Plans should be
submitted in a twenty-four inch by thirty-six inch (24" x 36") format and not
to exceed thirty six inch by forty eight inch (36" x 48") format.
      2.   The proposed location of existing and proposed improvements;
including, but not limited to, buildings, with entry and exit points
identified; utilities, walls, and fences; parking areas; existing trees (4-inch
caliper and larger with drip line) and proposed plant material.
      3.   An indication of the character of suggested plant materials to be
used, for example, shade trees, ornamental trees, shrubs, evergreen trees,
ground cover, and perennials.
      4.   A tree preservation and removal plan, as defined by this article.
      5.   The location of existing natural site features, including, but not
limited to, large boulders, rock outcroppings, wetlands and streams.
      6.   The location and dimension of all existing and proposed buildings,
parking lots and driveways, roadways and rights of way, sidewalks, bicycle
paths, signs, fences, refuse disposal areas, freestanding electrical equipment,
setbacks, easements, and other freestanding structures or other significant
features as determined by the village engineer.
      7.   Existing and proposed contours, including proposed berms, at one
foot (1') contour intervals.
   D.   Final Landscape Plan: A final landscape plan shall include the
following information:
      1.   The name, address and phone number of the landscape architect who
prepared the plan; scale (minimum 1" = 20'); north arrow; date of preparation;
and identification of the plan as a final landscape plan. Plans should be
submitted in a twenty-four inch by thirty six inch (24" x 36") format and not
to exceed thirty six inch by forty eight inch (36" x 48") format.
      2.   The location of existing and proposed improvements; including, but
not limited to, buildings, with entry and exit points identified; all
utilities, lighting, walls, and fences, parking areas (spaces delineated,
including handicapped spaces, curbs); spot elevations and contours; existing
and proposed berms; existing trees (four (4) inch caliper and larger with drip
line) and proposed plant material; paved surfaces; sign locations; public
rights of way and easements, including street widths; refuse disposal areas;
property lines; and, other exterior landscape amenities, such as bike paths,
plazas, architectural paving, flagpoles, foundations, benches, and bicycle
racks.
      3.   The plant materials list including botanical names, common names,
caliper or height, and quantity of all proposed plant material.
      4.   The proposed treatment of all ground surfaces (pea gravel, ground
covers, sod, seed and/or prairie).   
      5.   Other drawings and information as required; such as irrigation plan,
if appropriate, grading and drainage plan, showing spot elevations and/or cross
section, or methods to be used to protect plants and planted areas, e.g.,
curbs, ties, walls.
      6.   A tree preservation and removal plan, as defined by this article.
      7.   Elevations, cross sections, samples (if requested) and/or
photographs to indicate the following: texture of exposed surfaces, landscape
material, scale, color of exposed surfaces, planting in relation to buildings,
if requested by the village.
      8.   Technical information, samples, details, and/or photographs of
materials to be used for light standards, benches, fences, walls, signage,
safety lighting, and other site details specified on the preliminary landscape
plan.
   E.   General Design Criteria:
      1.   Scale And Nature Of Material: The scale and nature of landscape
material shall be appropriate to the site and the structures thereon.
      2.   Planting Material: Planting materials used in conformance with the
provisions of this section shall be:
         a.   Of good quality and of a species normally grown in northeastern
Illinois.
         b.   Capable of withstanding the extremes of individual site
microclimates.
         c.   Selected for interest in its structure, texture, and color for
its ultimate growth.
         d.   Harmonious to the site design, and of good appearance.
         e.   In conformance with American standard for nursery stock as
approved by American National Standards Institute and issued as ANSI 2601.1986.
      3.   Evergreen Trees: The use of evergreen trees shall be encouraged for
the landscape treatment of a site, particularly in those areas screening
parking lots from dedicated public rights of way or property zoned for
residential use.
      4.   Minimum Plant Material Size: Minimum sizes for plant materials at
time of installation for all landscape areas shall be as follows:
         a.   Deciduous trees shall be a minimum six inches (6") caliper,
balled and burlapped ("B&B") when installed. Evergreen trees shall be a minimum
six feet (6') in height (B&B) when installed.
         b.   Ornamental trees shall be used, especially in smaller planting
areas, and shall be of a clump form at a minimum height of five feet (5') or
have a minimum trunk size of two inches (2") caliper.
         c.   Deciduous shrubs (other than dwarf varieties) shall be a minimum
of three feet (3') in height at time of installation if used as a perimeter
screen planting, and thirty inches (30") in height (B&B) for all other
installations. Dwarf varieties and plants normally measured by spread shall be
a minimum of twenty-four inches (24") in height/spread (B&B). Evergreen shrubs
shall be a minimum of twenty-four inches (24") in height.
         d.   Ground cover shall be planted and spaced so that complete
coverage can be obtained within two (2) years after date of installation.
Minimum size shall be two and one-half inch (21/2") to three-inch (3") pots.
      5.   Prohibited Trees: The following trees shall not be used to satisfy
the requirements of this section, and are prohibited:
         a.   Black locust (Robinia psuedoacacia);
         b.   Box elder (Acer negundo);
         c.   Buckthorn (Rhamnus cathartica);
         d.   Catalpa (Catalpa sp.);
         e.   Chokecherry (Prunus virginiana);
         f.   Cottonwood (Populus deltoides);
         g.   Mountain ash, mulberry (Morus sp.);
         h.   Osage orange (Maclura pomifera);
         i.   Poplar species (Populus sp.);
         j.   Russian olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia);
         k.   Siberian elm (Ulmus pumila);
         l.   Silver maple (Acer saccharinum);
         m.   Thornless honey locust (cultivars);
         n.   Tree of heaven (Ailanthus altissma);
         o.   Willow species (Salix sp.);
         p.   White birch (Betula pendula and papyrifera); and
         q.   Fruit trees.
      6.   Installation Of Plant Materials: Plant materials of all types and
species shall be installed in accordance with the minimum technical
specifications of the Illinois Landscape Contractors Association, including the
provisions for guarantee and replacement.
      7.   Maintenance Of Plant Material: The owner of the premises shall be
responsible for the maintenance, repair and replacement of all landscaping
materials and barriers, including refuse disposal areas, walls, fences, and
other amenities, as may be required by the provisions of this section. A means
of irrigating plant material shall be provided. Installation of an automatic
underground sprinkling system is recommended.
      8.   Planting Beds: Planting beds shall be mulched in their entirety with
shredded bark or other similar organic material a minimum of three inches (3")
deep. Lava rock or large diameter (11/2 inch diameter or larger) bark chips
("chunk bark") are not acceptable. Gravel and stone mulches are not permitted,
unless specifically approved in writing by the village. Mulch beds at time of
planting shall extend a minimum of two feet (2') beyond the center of a shrub.
      9.   Walls And Fences: Plant materials shall be placed intermittently
against long expanses of building walls, fences and other barriers to create a
softening effect. All wood fences proposed to be used to satisfy the
requirements of this section shall be of red cedar, redwood, cypress, or other
approved decay resistant treated wood, at least six feet (6') high, and of
solid construction. Wood fences shall be a minimum of seventy five percent
(75%) opaque, with all supporting posts exposed to the lot interior. Stockade
type fences are not permitted.
      10.   Detention/Retention Basins And Ponds: Detention/retention basins
and pond areas shall be planted. Plantings shall include shade and ornamental
trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges and/or other live planting materials.
Plants must be able to tolerate wet conditions if planted within the basin.
      11.   Measures For Energy Conservation: The following measures are
required for energy conservation:
         a.   Wherever possible, deciduous trees, shrubs and vines should be
planted along the south and west sides of buildings and plaza areas to provide
shade during the summer and limited shade during winter.
         b.   Wherever possible, evergreens and other plant materials should be
concentrated on the north side of buildings in a manner which dissipates the
effect of winter winds.
      12.   Earthen Berms And Existing Topography: Earthen berms and existing
topography shall, wherever practical, be incorporated into the landscape
treatment of a site. Berms shall not exceed a maximum slope of three horizontal
units to one vertical unit (3:1) except in parking islands, where the maximum
slope shall not exceed two horizontal units to one vertical unit (2:1).
      13.   Natural Topographic Patterns: Where natural, existing topographic
patterns contribute to the beauty and utility of a development, they shall be
preserved and developed. Modification of topography may be allowed where it
contributes to the aesthetic quality of the site.
      14.   Curbs, Tree Guards, Etc.: In locations where plant materials may be
susceptible to injury or cause personal injury, appropriate curbs, tree guards,
or other devices shall be provided.   
      15.   Other Materials: In areas where general planting will not prosper,
other materials such as fences, walls and pavings of wood, brick, stone, and
cobbles shall be used. Carefully selected plant material shall be combined with
such materials where possible.
      16.   Lighting Standards And Fixtures: Lighting standards and fixtures
when used to enhance the building design and the adjoining landscape shall be
of a size and design compatible with the building and adjacent areas. Lighting
shall be restrained in design, and excessive brightness and brilliant colors
shall be avoided. Electrical service shall be underground.
      17.   Critical Sight Lines: Landscaping must be designed and installed to
minimize potential obstruction of critical sight lines. Landscape planting
shall be so designed as to avoid obstruction of a motorist's vision at the
intersection of parking aisles, driveways, and public or private streets and
alleys.
Unobstructed visibility between two and one-half feet (2 1/2') and eight feet
(8') above the height of the pavement must be maintained at all intersections.
To maintain this visibility, no berms, shrubs or other landscape material that
will reach a mature height greater than two and one-half feet (2 1/2') shall be
permitted within a sight triangle. Trees are allowed in sight triangles
provided the lowest branching begins not less than eight feet (8') above the
pavement.
      18.   Edging: Edging is recommended to separate grass areas from shrubs,
ground cover and mulch and shall be a good quality steel, plastic, or weather
resistant (redwood, cedar) or treated wood secured with stakes.
      19.   Artificial Plants Prohibited: No artificial plants of any type
shall be used to satisfy any requirements of this section, nor are they
permitted unless specifically approved by the village board.
      20.   Drainage Swales And Slopes: All drainage swales and slopes having a
slope of three vertical units to one horizontal unit (3:1) or greater shall be
sodded. All other ground areas not covered by buildings, parking, sidewalks or
other impervious surfaces, or occupied by planting beds, shall be graded smooth
with a minimum of six inches (6") of black dirt after compacting and removing
stumps, rocks and other debris, and shall be seeded or sodded to prevent soil
erosion and sedimentation of public drainage systems, creeks, streams, rivers
and wetlands.
      21.   Indigenous And/Or Drought Tolerant Plant Material: Wherever
possible landscape designs and plant material that is indigenous and/or drought
tolerant should be used to reduce the need for irrigation.
      22.   Flowerbeds: Flowerbeds are encouraged and shall be planted in
masses in acceptable areas to create color, texture and visual interest.
   F.   Service Yard Screening: Service yards, loading docks and other places
that in the judgment of the village will be unsightly shall be screened from
view, in accord with the following requirements:
      1.   Screening shall be equally effective at all times of the year.
      2.   Trash dumpsters and other waste receptacles or equipment shall be
screened on three (3) sides with a solid wall at least six feet (6') in height,
and with a solid single or double access gate on the fourth side.
      3.   All utility equipment (meters, transformers, etc.) shall be screened
with appropriate plantings.
      4.   Except when located across a street from residential zoned property,
all garage doors and loading areas on nonresidential property shall be
concealed from view (at grade of the nonresidential property) from adjoining
residential zoned property.
      5.   All outdoor storage facilities for raw materials and finished
products shall be effectively screened and enclosed by a solid wall or fence at
least eight feet (8') in height. If materials to be stored outdoors are in
excess of eight feet (8') in height, then landscape screening shall be provided
(in addition to any fence or wall) installed along the outside perimeter of the
fence or wall, equal to or exceeding the height of the materials to be stored
outdoors. When the storage is within five hundred feet (500') of a residential
zoning district, it shall be designed for one hundred percent (100%) opacity;
otherwise, it shall be designed for seventy-five percent (75%) opacity.
   G.   Additional Requirements For Right Of Wav Landscaping: In addition to
the general design criteria described in this article, the following
requirements shall also apply to landscaping in rights of way:
      1.   Where a zoning lot abuts a dedicated public right of way, trees
shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      2.   It shall be the obligation of the owner of any property on which
there is an application for building permit for a new residence, or for any
other building other than an accessory building, in a residential zoning
district, to plant a minimum of two (2) street trees per lot along all streets
abutting said lot where trees do not exist, either along the street on private
property, or within the parkway, subject to the permitting process described in
this article, and placed in such a manner as to provide an appearance for the
enhancement of adjacent properties, each such tree to have a trunk diameter
(caliper size) of not less than three inches (3") at a height of six inches
(6") above ground level at the time of planting. The requirement of this
subsection shall apply along all frontages of the property.
      3.   It shall be the obligation of the owner of any property on which
there is an application for building permit for any type of building in any
nonresidential zoning district, to plant a minimum of one street tree for every
forty feet (40') of frontage along any street where trees do not exist, either
along the street on private property, or within the parkway, subject to the
permitting process described in this article, and placed in such a manner as to
provide an appearance for the enhancement of abutting properties, each such
tree to have a trunk diameter (caliper size) of not less than three inches (3")
at a height of six inches (6") above ground level at the time of planting. The
requirement of this subsection shall apply along all frontages of the property.
      4.   It shall be the duty of the owner of the private property on which
any such trees are located, or abutting any parkway on which such trees are
located, to maintain said trees for a period of three (3) years next following
the date of issuance of a final certificate of occupancy for the property.
Provided, however, in the case of any new subdivision, the obligation of this
subsection shall be borne by the developer or other person to whom the village
had granted final approval of said subdivision.
      5.   It shall be the duty of the owner of the private property on which
any such trees are located, or abutting any parkway on which such trees are
located, at his or her expense, to replace, in accordance with the requirements
of this article, any of said trees which do not survive in a good and healthy
condition for the three (3) year period next following the date of issuance of
the final certificate of occupancy. Provided, however, in the case of any new
subdivision, the obligation of this subsection shall be borne by the developer
or other person to whom the village had granted final approval of said
subdivision.
      6.   The requirements of this section shall apply to any and all unsold,
vacant, entryway, and open space lot(s) or area(s) in any subdivision.
   H.   Additional Requirements For Parking Lot Landscaping: In addition to the
general design criteria prescribed in this article, the following requirements
shall also apply to landscaping for parking lots.
   I.   The provisions of this section shall apply only to parking lots
designed for four (4) or more parking spaces.
   J.   To define circulation within a parking lot and to visually and
physically break up long rows of parking spaces, landscape islands are required
to be provided within parking lot areas, as follows:
      1.   A landscaped island shall be provided at the end of each parking
row. The island shall be protected by a continuous concrete barrier curb and
shall have a minimum width of seven feet (7'), measured back of curb to back of
curb, and shall have a depth equal to the adjoining parking space. Each parking
aisle landscape island shall contain two (2) shade trees.
      2.   In addition to parking aisle landscape islands, one or more of the
following alternatives shall be used to divide each row of parking spaces
having twenty (20) spaces or more:
         a.   One landscape island protected by a continuous concrete barrier
curb and having a minimum width of seven feet (7') measured back of curb to
back of curb, and a depth equal to the adjoining parking space, may be provided
for each twenty (20) parking spaces in the parking row. Said landscape islands
shall be dispersed throughout the parking row. Each said landscape island shall
contain one shade tree; or
         b.   One landscape island positioned at the front corner of a parking
space, protected by a continuous concrete barrier curb and having minimum
dimensions of six and one-half (6-1/2) square feet, measured back of curb to
back of curb, may be provided for each ten (10) parking spaces in the parking
row. Said landscape islands shall be dispersed throughout the parking row and
shall not be used in parking rows along the perimeter of a parking lot. Each
said landscape island shall contain one shade tree; or
         c.   A continuous landscape island protected by a continuous concrete
barrier curb and having a minimum depth of seven feet (7'), measured back of
curb to back of curb, may be provided between parking rows. Said landscape
island shall not be used in parking rows along the perimeter of a parking lot.
Each said landscape island shall contain one shade tree for each twenty (20)
parking spaces in the parking row.
      3.   Additional Landscape Island Standards: In addition to the shade
trees required in this section, each landscape island required herein shall be
landscaped with shrubs, flowers, ground covers, sod and mulch. Shrubs planted
in a parking lot landscape island shall not exceed a mature height of thirty
inches (30") above the adjoining pavement. No tree planted in a parking lot
landscape island shall have branches maintained at a height less than six feet
(6') above the adjoining pavement.
   K.   Parking lot perimeter landscaping shall consist of the following:
      1.   Front And Corner Side Yards:
         a.   Where a parking lot is located in or adjacent to a front or
corner side yard in a residential zoning district, continuous landscaping shall
be provided across not less than one hundred percent (one hundred percent
(100%)) of the parking lot frontage to a minimum height of three feet (3').
Such landscaping shall consist of any combination of berms, shade and
ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other live planting
material.
         b.   Where a parking lot is located in or adjacent to a front or
corner side yard not in a residential zoning district, continuous landscaping
shall be provided across not less than sixty percent (60%) of the parking lot
frontage to a minimum height of three feet (3'). Such landscaping shall consist
of any combination of berms, shade and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery,
hedges, and/or other live planting material. Plantings may be placed in
clusters, containing at minimum seven (7) evergreens and/or shrubs per cluster,
spaced at intervals of approximately thirty five feet (35') along the frontage
of the parking lot.
However, when a continuous row of shrubs or hedges is chosen, the entire
parking lot frontage shall be screened.
      2.   Rear Or Side Yards Adjacent To Residential District: Where a parking
lot is located in a rear or side yard adjacent to a residential zoning
district, landscaping shall be provided as follows:
         a.   Landscape screening between the parking lot and the residential
property line shall be a minimum of six feet (6') in height.
         b.   Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of one for each
fifty (50) linear feet, or fraction thereof, of parking lot frontage and shall
not be planted more than forty feet (40') apart.
         c.   Other planting material, including ornamental trees, evergreens,
shrubbery, hedges, and/or other live planting materials shall be provided in a
continuous row covering one hundred percent (one hundred percent (100%)) of the
frontage of the parking lot adjacent the residential lot(s).
         d.   Except where occupied by planting beds, all side and rear yard
perimeter landscaping area shall be sodded or seeded.
      3.   Rear Or Side Yard Adjacent To Nonresidential Property: Where a
parking lot is located in a rear or side yard adjacent to a nonresidential
property, landscaping shall be provided across not less than fifty percent
(50%) of that portion of the parking lot abutting the property line to a
minimum height of three feet (3'). Such landscaping shall consist of any
combination of berms, shade and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery,
hedges, and/or other live planting materials. Plantings may be placed in
clusters, containing not less than seven (7) shrubs per cluster, spaced at
intervals of approximately thirty five feet (35') along the property line.
   I.   Additional Requirements For Foundation Landscaping: In addition to the
general design criteria prescribed in this article, the following requirements
shall also apply to foundation landscaping:
      1.   All nonresidential and multiple-family development shall provide
perimeter landscaping as prescribed herein. Parking lots located on the
perimeter of a lot shall comply with the requirements of subsection J of this
section.
      2.   A landscaping area not less than ten feet (10') in width shall be
located around the perimeter of all buildings, except where impractical, i.e.,
loading dock areas, entryways, etc.
      3.   Any required foundation landscaping areas shall remain open and free
of all paving except where walks to buildings and other similar paving are
required.
      4.   Foundation landscaping shall consist of shade and ornamental trees,
evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other live planting materials. Particular
attention shall be paid toward screening mechanical equipment, bicycle parking
areas, and loading docks; softening large expanses of building walls; and
accenting entrances and architectural features of the building(s).
   J.   Additional Requirements For Perimeter Landscaping: In addition to the
general design criteria prescribed in this article, the following requirements
shall also apply to foundation landscaping:
      1.   The provisions of this section shall apply to all nonresidential and
multiple-family development.
      2.   Where nonresidential property abuts property in a business, office
or industrial zoning district, landscaping shall be provided as follows:
         a.   Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of one for each
seventy-five feet (75'), or fraction thereof, of frontage along the abutting
property line. Such trees shall be planted no more than forty feet (40') apart
and may be clustered or spaced linearly as determined appropriate.
         b.   Other landscaping materials, including berms, ornamental trees,
evergreen trees, shrubs, hedges, ground covers and perennials shall be provided
at appropriate locations along the abutting property line.
      3.   Where nonresidential property abuts a residential zoning district,
landscaping shall be provided as follows:
         a.   A solid screen six feet (6') in height shall be provided along
the entire length of the abutting property line. Such screen shall consist of a
solid wood fence, berms, shade trees, evergreen trees, ornamental trees,
evergreen and/or deciduous shrubs, necessary to provide one hundred percent
(100%) coverage.
         b.   Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of one for each
seventy-five feet (75'), or fraction thereof, of frontage along the abutting
property line. Such trees shall not be planted more than forty feet (40') apart
and may be clustered or spaced linearly as determined appropriate.
      4.   Where a multiple-family residential use abuts property in any zoning
district, landscaping shall be provided as follows:
         a.   Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of not less than
one for each seventy-five feet (75'), or fraction thereof, of frontage along
the abutting property line. Such trees shall be planted a minimum of forty feet
(40') apart and may be clustered or spaced linearly as appropriate.
         b.   Other landscaping materials, including berms, if possible,
ornamental trees, evergreen trees, shrubs, hedges, ground cover and/or
perennials shall be provided at intermittent locations across fifty percent
(50%) of the abutting property line. Shrubs shall be placed in clusters
containing at least seven (7) per cluster, spaced at intervals of approximately
thirty-five feet (35') along the abutting property line.
   K.   Additional Requirements For Landscape Setbacks: For the purpose of
improving the safety, appearance and environment along the major transportation
arterial and collector streets of the village, landscaped setbacks shall be
provided and maintained on all properties, except those used for single-family
dwellings, as follows:
      1.   Wherever a greater setback is required by the zoning district
regulations, the greater setback requirement shall apply.
      2.   The landscape setback shall comply with the following:
         a.   No structures, including all accessory buildings; no parking; and
no fences over four feet (4') in height shall be permitted within the
landscaped setback area.
         b.   The setback shall be devoted entirely to landscaped areas except
for sidewalks and paving of driveways necessary to reach the building and
parking areas, provided such driveways are generally perpendicular to the front
lot line.
         c.   The landscaped area shall consist of at least seventy five
percent (75%) live landscaping consisting of shade trees, ornamental trees,
shrubs, and live ground covers.
   L.   Administration Of Landscaping And Tree Preservation Regulations:
      1.   The village engineer, or his/her designee, shall be responsible for
approval of all plans required by this article.
      2.   An appeal from an order of the village engineer regarding approval
of any plan required by this article may be taken to the board of trustees for
resolution.
      3.   The village recognizes that, because of the wide variety of types of
developments and the relationships between them, some flexibility in applying
standards set forth in this article may be appropriate, as long as the intent
of specified requirements is met. Whenever the village allows or requires a
variation from the requirements set forth in this article, such variation
should be included on the final landscape plan, including the reasons for
allowing or requiring a variation from the requirements of this article. Any
requested variations from the standards specified herein must be recommended by
the village engineer and approved by the village board of trustees.
      4.   All required landscaping shall be installed prior to the issuance of
a certificate of occupancy; provided, if weather conditions or other
circumstances beyond the developer's control prevent installation of all or
portions of the landscape materials and all other requirements for the issuance
of a certificate of occupancy, a performance guarantee approved by the village
attorney to ensure completion of approved landscaping shall be filed with the
village. In such case, the amount of the performance guarantee and the required
completion date shall be established by the village engineer based on current
costs. If such a performance guarantee has previously been submitted for the
proposed landscape improvements, for good cause shown, the village engineer may
permit the developer to extend the completion date.
   M.   Guidelines For Reviewing Landscape Plans: A landscape plan shall be
approved if the following conditions are satisfied:
      1.   The use of trees, shrubs, flowers, berms, ground cover, and
perennials are used appropriately to enhance the overall appearance and
function of the site or open spaces on the site.
      2.   The planting of shade, ornamental and evergreen trees is used to
define and enhance spaces on the site.
      3.   Plant materials are effectively used to screen adjacent dwelling
units, service areas, and parking areas.
      4.   Plant materials are used to contribute to water conservation and
energy efficiency.
      5.   Plant materials are used to add seasonal color, texture, size and
form to create seasonal and visual interest and appeal in the community.
      6.   The composition, number, location, species of landscape material,
berms, fences and other features, and supporting documentation are provided as
required by this article. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
ARTICLE XXIII
WIND ENERGY COLLECTION SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-23-1: Purpose and Intent
5-23-2: Definitions
5-23-3: General Wind Energy System Regulations
5-23-4: Mini Wind Energy Systems (MWES)
5-23-5: Small Wind Energy Systems (SWES)
5-23-6: Abandonment Decommissioning and Restoration Plan
5-23-7: Compliance Penalty
5-23-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this article is hereby declared to be as follows:
   A.   To provide specific regulations for the placement, construction and
modification of wind energy collection systems. The provisions of this article
shall not be applied in such a manner as to unreasonably discriminate between
the various different companies that provide wind energy collection systems. To
the extent that any provision or provisions of this article are inconsistent or
in conflict with any other provision of this chapter, the provisions of this
article shall control.
   B.   To facilitate energy cost saving and economic opportunities for local
residents and businesses.
   C.   To promote the supply of alternative energy in support of increasing
sustainable energy production from renewable energy sources.
   D.   To establish reasonable and uniform regulations for the operation,
location, maintenance, installation, and decommissioning of wind energy
collection systems to minimize their potentially adverse effects on the
community.
   E.   To preserve the aesthetics of the respective zoning districts for the
purpose of preserving property values and protecting the public health, safety,
morals, and welfare of the village. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-23-2: DEFINITIONS:
                                       Any of the extended vanes of a wind
BLADE:                                 turbine which move in a circular
                                       direction caused by passing wind.
                                       A report which outlines the plan and
                                       financing for removal of an inoperable
                                       and/or abandoned wind energy collection
DECOMMISSION ING AND RESTORATION PLAN: system and restoration of disturbed land
                                       and improvements caused by the
                                       installation and removal of any such
                                       system.
                                       The federal aviation administration of
FAA:                                   the United States department of
                                       transportation.
                                       A wind turbine that rotates on a
                                       horizontal axis, typically with
HORIZONTAL AXIS TURBINE:               propeller blades. This definition
                                       includes reference to the illustration
                                       herein of such turbine for explanatory,
                                       but not limiting, purposes.
                                       A wind powered mechanical wind energy
                                       collection system (1 kilowatt to 10
                                       kilowatts) consisting of a wind turbine
MINI WIND ENERGY SYSTEM (MWES):        component, support tower, and associated
                                       control or conversion electronics which
                                       is professionally manufactured and
                                       installed and intended for small,
                                       private use purposes.
                                       The height above grade measured to the
MONOPOLE HEIGHT:                       fixed portion of the monopole, including
                                       the wind turbine assembly.
                                       A single pole structure that supports a
MONOPOLE TOWER:                        wind turbine, without the use of
                                       guywires or similar support system.
                                       A wind energy collection system that is
OFF GRID:                              not connected to the utility electric
                                       grid.
                                       The return of light after striking any
REFLECTION:                            portion of a wind energy collection
                                       system, also referred to as glare.
                                       The measurement of blade rotation which
                                       is formulated by a straight line passing
                                       through the center of the circular path
ROTOR DIAMETER:                        of blade travel and terminating at the
                                       periphery. This definition includes
                                       reference to the illustration herein of
                                       such measurement for explanatory, but
                                       not limiting, purposes.
                                       The on and off strobe light effect
                                       caused by the shadow of moving turbine
SHADOW FLICKER:                        blades cast by the sun or other light
                                       source passing through the rotating
                                       turbine.
                                       A wind powered mechanical wind energy
                                       collection system (11 kilowatts to 100
                                       kilowatts) consisting of a wind turbine
SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM (SWES):       component, support tower, and associated
                                       control or conversion electronics which
                                       is professionally manufactured and
                                       installed, and detached from any
                                       building, freestanding.
                                       The height above grade measured to the
TOTAL EXTENDED HEIGHT:                 highest point of travel of a wind
                                       turbine.
VERTICAL AXIS TURBINE:                 A wind turbine that rotates on a
                                       vertical axis.
                                       Any aboveground device which captures
                                       wind energy to be converted into
                                       electricity or heat for public or
WIND ENERGY COLLECTION SYSTEM:         private use. A wind energy collection
                                       system may be either a small wind energy
                                       system (SWES) or a mini wind energy
                                       system (MWES). Also, a wind energy
                                       system.
                                       A machine incorporated into a wind
                                       energy collection system, of spiral or
                                       helical shape, and/or having a rotor,
                                       usually with vanes or blades mounted
                                       horizontally or vertically, driven by
WIND TURBINE:                          the wind for the purposes of converting
                                       wind into electricity for public or
                                       private use. This definition includes
                                       reference to the illustration herein of
                                       such turbine for explanatory, but not
                                       limiting, purposes. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-
                                       2022)
 
5-23-3: GENERAL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM REGULATIONS:
   A.   General: Any "wind energy collection system", as defined in section
5-17-2 of this article, may be erected or installed only in accordance with
this article and shall also conform to all federal laws and regulations, as
amended from time to time, concerning its use and operation, and shall be
further subject to the following standards:
      1.   A wind energy collection system shall:
         a.   Be installed primarily for the production and consumption of
energy on the parcel upon which it is installed; energy produced in excess of
consumption may be sold back to the electric utility service provider that
serves the parcel for use with the existing energy grid.
         b.   Be finished in a nonreflective color to prevent reflection. The
exterior color shall be camouflaged so as to blend into the surroundings to
such an extent to be unobtrusive to the casual observer.
         c.   Not have affixed thereto any advertisement material, writing,
picture, or signage other than warning notification(s) and/or equipment
identification.
         d.   Conform to applicable industry standards, including those of the
American national standards institute (ANSI). The applicant for a permit shall
submit a certificate of design compliance obtained by the manufacturer from
Underwriters Laboratories (UL), Det Norske Veritas (DNV), Germanischer Lloyd
Wind Energie (GL), or an equivalent third party.
         e.   Be equipped with manual and/or automatic controls and mechanical
brakes to limit rotation of blades to a speed below the manufacturer's designed
limits. A licensed professional engineer or authorized factory representative
must certify that the rotor and over speed control design and fabrication
conform to good engineering practices. No changes or alterations from the
certified design shall be permitted unless accompanied by a licensed
professional engineer's or authorized factory representative's statement of
certification.
      2.   All wiring between a wind turbine and the principal structure shall
be underground or contained within conduit which matches the principal building
materials and shall conform to article III of this chapter.
      3.   No habitable portion of an existing adjacent structure shall be
subject to shadow flicker from a wind turbine, unless mitigation has taken
place and has been agreed upon by the owner/operator and neighboring property
owner(s). Any such mitigation agreement must be recorded with the Kane County
recorder's office with a copy filed with the village clerk. Shadow flicker onto
an adjacent roof and/or exterior wall which does not contain any windows,
doors, and like openings shall be acceptable and not subject to mitigation. If
no such mitigation agreement has been established, the operation of a wind
energy collection system shall cease during those times which cause the shadow
flicker. This requirement shall apply even where the adjacent property affected
by shadow flicker is under common ownership (vis a vis the location of the wind
turbine) at the time of permit, provided that in lieu of a mitigation agreement
the owner shall record a notice, in the form prescribed by the village, against
the adjacent commonly owned parcel(s) affected by the shadow flicker.
      4.   No portion of a wind energy collection system shall be artificially
illuminated except to the extent required by the FAA or other applicable
authority.
   B.   Permit Required: No wind energy collection system shall be erected,
constructed, altered or relocated without first obtaining a building permit
from the village. An application for a building permit shall be made upon forms
provided by the village, signed by the applicant, and contain or have attached
thereto the following information:
      1.   Name of person, firm, corporation or association constructing and
erecting the wind energy system.
      2.   Site plan showing the location of the wind energy system upon the
lot and copies of the manufacturer's specifications for the wind energy system.
      3.   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant, and the name
of a responsible party in the case of corporate applications.
      4.   Written consent of the owner of the building, structure or land on
which the wind energy system is to be erected.
      5.   Elevation(s) of the existing structural improvements and the
proposed wind energy system showing the size and design details of the wind
turbine and the total extended height above grade.
      6.   Evidence that the electric utility service provider that serves the
proposed site has been notified of the owner's intent to install an
interconnected customer owned electricity generator. Off grid wind energy
systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
      7.   Three (3) sets of plans and specifications showing the method of
construction, location, support, and attachment to the ground or structure.
      8.   If requested by the village, a copy of stress sheets and
calculations prepared by a professional engineer licensed by the state of
Illinois showing that the wind energy system is designed for the deadload and
wind pressure in any direction, in the amount required by the manufacturer and
all other laws and ordinances of this code.
      9.   A line drawing of the electrical components, as supplied by the
manufacturer, in sufficient detail to allow for a determination that the manner
of installation conforms to this code.
      10.   Such other information that shall require showing full compliance
with this and all other ordinances of the village.
      11.   A written certification of a professional engineer licensed by the
state of Illinois that the structure upon which the facility is located is
sufficient from a structural engineering standpoint to bear the load.
Freestanding wind energy systems shall include a certificate that the
foundation on which the structure is built is constructed and engineered to
take into account the existing soil conditions. The professional engineer shall
also certify that in the event of a fall or collapse that the facility is
designed and manufactured to fall entirely within the boundary lines of the lot
on which it is located and that installation meets or exceeds the minimum
construction and installation standards set forth by the manufacturer. (Ord.
22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-23-4: MINI WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (MWES):
In addition to the general standards set forth in this article, the following
standards shall apply to any mini wind energy collection system (MWES) to be
erected or installed in the village.
   A.   General Standards:
      1.   Sound levels shall not exceed forty five decibels (45 dBA) as
measured at a height of five feet (5') directly above the adjoining property
lines during operation.
      2.   The apparatus shall be limited to three (3) vertical axis turbines
or one horizontal axis turbine with a maximum rotor diameter of ten feet (10').
   B.   Special Standards:
      1.   Building Mounted MWES:
         a.   Location: A building mounted MWES may be located on any lot in
any zoning district, where approved as a special use.
         b.   Attachment: A building mounted MWES shall be either mounted onto
the roof or structurally attached to the side of the principal structure.
         c.   Setbacks: A building mounted MWES shall be located entirely
within the required building setbacks.
         d.   Height: A building mounted MWES may extend to a maximum height
which shall be the lesser of either five feet (5') above the height of the
principal structure on the property on which it is to be located, or the
maximum structure height permitted in the zoning district in which it is to be
located.
      2.   Freestanding MWES:
         a.   Location: A freestanding MWES may be located on a lot of not less
than twenty (20) acres in size in any zoning district, where otherwise approved
as a special use, in accordance with the requirements of chapter 6, "Zoning",
of this code.
         b.   Attachment: A freestanding MWES shall be mounted on a monopole
tower.
         c.   Setbacks:
            (1)   At no point shall a freestanding MWES be permitted within the
front yard or any side yard on the property on which it is to be located.
            (2)   Any MWES located on a residential property shall be located a
minimum distance from the nearest abutting property line of such residential
property equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of its total extended height,
as measured from the base of the monopole to such property line.
         d.   Height: A freestanding MWES shall be permitted to extend to a
maximum height of five feet (5') above the height of the principal structure on
the property on which it is to be located, or the maximum structure height
permitted in the zoning district in which it is to be located, whichever is
greater.
         e.   Restriction On Access: Any freestanding wind energy system shall
be protected against unauthorized access by the public and no climbing foot
pegs or rungs shall be permitted below twelve feet (12') to prevent
unauthorized climbing. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-23-5: SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (SWES):
In addition to the general standards set forth in this article, the following
standards shall apply to any small wind energy collection system (SWES) to be
erected or installed in the village.
   A.   General Standards:
      1.   Sound: Sound levels shall not exceed those described in subsection
5-17-4A1 of this article for mini wind systems.
      2.   Limitation: The apparatus shall be limited to one vertical axis
turbine or one horizontal axis turbine with a rotor diameter greater than ten
feet (10').
      3.   Location: An SWES may be located in any zoning district, where
otherwise approved as a special use, in accordance with the requirements of
chapter 6, "Zoning," of this code.
      4.   Screening: Any ground mounted SWES or equipment appurtenant thereto
shall be appropriately screened.
      5.   Attachment:
         a.   An SWES shall be freestanding.
         b.   The base of the monopole of a freestanding SWES shall be located
a minimum distance equal to the total extended height of the SWES from all
side, corner side, and rear property lines; provided, however, an SWES may be
allowed closer to a side or rear property line than its total extended height
provided the record owner(s) of the abutting, affected property grant(s)
written permission, on a form prescribed by the village, which form shall be
recorded with the Kane County recorder's office, with a copy filed with the
village clerk prior to any approval(s). Such written consent shall be required
even where the adjacent property affected by the total extended height is under
common ownership with the subject property at the time of application for
approval.
      6.   Setbacks:
         a.   Any SWES shall be located within the rear yard of the property.
         b.   Any SWES located on a residential property, or any property which
abuts a residential property, shall be located a minimum distance from the
nearest abutting property line of such residential property equal to one
hundred ten percent (110%) of its total extended height, as measured from the
base of the tower to such property line.
         c.   Any SWES shall be located a minimum distance equal to the total
extended height from the nearest aboveground public utility lines and/or
personal wireless telecommunications facility, as measured from the base of
each.
      7.   Height: The lowest point of the arc of the blade of an SWES shall
have a minimum ground clearance of twenty feet (20') from grade.
   B.   Engineering Certification: No SWES may be located within the village
unless the applicant has provided to the village the written certification of a
professional engineer licensed by the state of Illinois that the structure upon
which the facility is located is sufficient from a structural engineering
standpoint to bear the load. For any freestanding structures, the certification
shall include a certificate that the foundation on which the structure is to be
built has been engineered and will be constructed to account for the existing
soil conditions. A licensed professional engineer shall also certify that in
the event of a fall or collapse, the facility is designed and manufactured to
fall entirely within the boundary lines of the lot on which it is located; and
after completion of construction, that the installation meets or exceeds the
maximum construction and installation standards set forth by the manufacturer.
(Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-23-6: ABANDONMENT DECOMMISSIONING AND RESTORATION PLAN:
   A.   Abandonment: When a wind energy system is not operated for a continuous
period of at least six (6) months, the wind energy system and all related
equipment shall be deemed by the village to have been abandoned. The village
shall deliver notice of such abandonment to the owner of the property on which
such wind energy system is located, and thereafter, such owner shall remove or
cause the removal of the wind energy system and related appurtenances within
forty five (45) days following receipt of the notice. Such notice shall be
personally delivered or sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, by the village to such owner at the last known address of such
owner. It shall be sufficient if the village mails such notice to the address
to which the most recent bill for general real estate taxes was sent. A
principal structure or lot for sale, lease, or in foreclosure may be exempt,
provided that the wind energy system is maintained as otherwise required by
this article.
   B.   Decommissioning And Restoration Plan: Prior to receiving a special use
permit for the installation of a wind energy system, the owner and/or operator
must include a decommissioning and restoration plan with the application
request to ensure such wind energy collection system and all related equipment
is properly decommissioned. The decommissioning and restoration plan shall
state how the facility will be decommissioned and how the site will be
restored, and shall further provide:
      1.   Provisions for removal of the wind energy system and all related
equipment, including those below the soil surface.
      2.   Provisions for the restoration of the property and improvements upon
completion of the decommissioning of the wind energy collection system and all
related equipment.
      3.   An estimated cost of decommissioning certified by a licensed
professional engineer and the financial resources to be used to accomplish
decommissioning.
      4.   The village is granted the right of entry onto the site, pursuant to
reasonable notice and, upon request, a prompt due process hearing, to effect or
complete decommissioning and/or restoration.
   C.   Removal: The owner of the wind energy system and the owner(s) of the
property on which the wind energy system is located shall be jointly and
severally liable for the removal of the SWES and all related appurtenances upon
the termination or expiration of the special use permit or at the end of the
useful life of the wind energy system, or when the facility has been abandoned
as described in this article.
   D.   Nuisance Systems: Any wind energy system which remains in place after
it has been abandoned as described in this article, or which remains in place
more than one hundred twenty (120) days after the termination or expiration of
any special use permit approved for the system, shall be deemed a used
structure and a nuisance.
   E.   Lien On Property For Costs Of Removal:
      1.   If the village incurs any costs to enforce or perform the
applicant's decommissioning and restoration plan, such cost shall be a lien
upon that property on which the wind energy system is located.
      2.   To perfect or enforce a lien under this section, the village shall
comply with the provisions of chapter 2, article XII of this code. (Ord. 22-27,
10-6-2022)
5-23-7: COMPLIANCE PENALTY:
   A.   Every wind energy system shall be constructed and maintained in
compliance with the plans and specifications approved by the permit. If any
wind energy system becomes noncompliant with approved plans and specifications
due to, but not limited to: discoloration, cracking, missing components,
rusting, settling, damage or general disrepair; then the owner/operator of the
wind energy system and the owner of the building or lot on which the wind
energy system is located will be jointly and severally responsible for
remedying the specific nonconformities. The village shall deliver notice of any
and all nonconformities to the owner/operator of the wind energy system and the
owner of the building or lot. The owner/operator of the wind energy system,
and/or the owner of the building or lot shall remedy such nonconformities
within forty five (45) days after receipt of such notice.
   B.   Any person or entity who, after such notice, fails or refuses to remedy
any and all cited nonconformities, within the forty five (45) day time period,
shall be subject to a fine in an amount not to exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
      1.   For purposes of this section, a separate offense shall be deemed to
have been committed for each day that a violation exists or continues to exist.
      2.   For purposes of this section, it shall not be required that all
persons who own any parcel on which a wind energy system is located receive
actual notice of any nonconformities from the village, and each and every
person who receives actual notice may be held liable and fined hereunder. (Ord.
22-27, 10-6-2022)
ARTICLE XXIV
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-24-1: Purpose
5-24-2: Definitions
5-24-3: General Regulations
5-24-4: Additional Regulations for Solar Energy Systems (SES)
5-24-5: Application for Solar Energy System (SES)
5-24-6: Exemptions
5-24-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to:
   A.   Establish reasonable and uniform regulations for the location,
installation, operation, maintenance, and decommissioning of Solar Energy
Systems (SES);
   B.   Assure that development and production of solar-generated electricity
via Solar Energy Systems in the Village is safe;
   C.   Minimize any potentially adverse effects of Solar Energy Systems on
adjoining properties and the general community;
   D.   Promote the supply of sustainable and renewable energy resources, such
as Solar Energy Systems, in support of national, State, and local goals; and
   E.   Facilitate energy cost savings and economic opportunities for Village
residents and businesses. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-24-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings herein
ascribed to them:
                                        An SES that has not been maintained in
                                        or repaired to operating condition
ABANDONED SES:                          within the applicable timeframe set
                                        forth in this article, or for which the
                                        owner has not made all submissions
                                        required pursuant to this article.
                                        A community solar system is a solar
                                        power plant whose electricity is shared
                                        by more than one household, for the
COMMUNITY SOLAR SYSTEM:                 purpose of allowing member investors of
                                        such facility the opportunity to share
                                        the benefits of solar power. Also, a
                                        "solar garden" or "shared renewable
                                        energy plant".
                                        The vertical distance measured from
HEIGHT:                                 grade to the highest point of a
                                        structure.
                                        The condition of being capable of
OPERABLE CONDITION:                     operating at full capacity while
                                        meeting all applicable requirements set
                                        forth in this article.
PHOTOVOLTAIC CELL:                      A semiconductor device that converts
                                        solar energy directly into electricity.
                                        Residential zoning districts in the
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT:            Village are the following: E-1, E-2, E-
                                        3, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, and RR.
                                        A professionally manufactured device,
                                        structure, or part of a device or
SOLAR COLLECTOR:                        structure for which the primary purpose
                                        is to transform solar radiant energy
                                        into thermal, mechanical, or electrical
                                        energy.
                                        Any part of a solar collector that
                                        absorbs solar energy for use in the
SOLAR COLLECTOR SURFACES:               collector's energy transformation
                                        process. A solar collector surface does
                                        not include frames, supports, or
                                        mounting hardware.
                                        An active or passive system for which
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES):              the primary purpose is to convert solar
                                        energy into thermal, mechanical, or
                                        electrical energy for storage and use.
                                        An SES that is accessory to a principal
                                        use and that is an integral part of a
                                        principal or accessory building, rather
                                        than a separate mechanical device, and
                                        that replaces or substitutes for an
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING           architectural or structural part of the
INTEGRATED (SES-BI):                    building. SES-BI include, but are not
                                        limited to, photovoltaic or hot water
                                        systems that are contained within
                                        roofing materials, skylights, shading
                                        devices, and similar architectural
                                        components.
                                        An SES that is accessory to a principal
                                        use and professionally mounted on the
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM - BUILDING MOUNTED  roof of a principal building, or on an
(SES-BM):                               accessory structure if allowed by the
                                        Village's Building Code. An SES-BM can
                                        be flush mounted or non-flush mounted.
                                        An SES-BM is deemed to be flush mounted
                                        when it is mounted to a finished roof
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING MOUNTED - surface where the solar collector, once
FLUSH MOUNTED:                          installed, projects no further than six
                                        inches (6") in height beyond the roof
                                        surface.
                                        An SES-BM is deemed to be non-flush
                                        mounted when it is mounted to a
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING MOUNTED - finished roof surface where the solar
NON-FLUSH MOUNTED:                      collector, once installed, projects
                                        more than six inches (6") in height
                                        beyond the roof surface.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM - GROUND MOUNTED    A free-standing SES that is accessory
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES-GM):           to a principal use and is placed on or
                                        mounted to the ground.
 
And any definitions as may be found in the 2018 International Solar Energy
Provisions. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-24-3: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
Except as specifically provided otherwise in this article, a Solar Energy
System shall comply with the following general regulations and also those of
the 2018 International Solar Energy Provisions:
   A.   Applicability: Any new solar energy system, and any upgrade,
modification, or change to an existing solar energy system which significantly
alters the size or placement of the system, shall comply with the requirements
of this article.
   B.   Location: An SES may be established in the Village only as an accessory
structure and use, and only in the zoning districts and locations expressly
authorized by this article.
   C.   Compliance With Laws: All SES shall comply with all applicable Village,
State, and Federal laws and regulations, including, without limitation, the
provisions of this article, and this Code, including but not limited to all
Village Building Codes.
   D.   Compliance With Permits: All SES shall comply with all applicable SES
permits issued pursuant to this article, including, without limitation, all
conditions imposed by the Village as a condition of issuance of such permits.
   E.   Interference With Utilities. Roads, And Neighboring Properties: No SES
shall be operated in a manner so as to interfere with any public right-of-way
or any utility system in the Village, or so as to interfere, by reason of
glare, bright color, protrusion onto another property, or other reason, with
the reasonable use and enjoyment of any other property, private or public, in
the Village.
   F.   General Engineering Regulations: Each SES shall conform to all
applicable industry standards, including, without limitation, the standards
developed by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI).
   G.   General Installation Regulations:
      1.   SES facilities must be installed according to manufacturer
specifications.
      2.   All necessary electrical connections must be made by a licensed
electrician.
      3.   All electrical lines connecting to an SES not installed on a primary
structure shall be installed underground.
   H.   Signage
      1.   No SES shall contain or display any advertising material, writing,
picture, or signage other than warning signage or manufacturer or ownership
information; provided, the area of any sign displaying the identification of or
information relating to the manufacturer or owner of the SES shall be no larger
than one sguare foot.
      2.   No flag, decorative sign, streamers, pennants, ribbons, spinners or
waving, fluttering or revolving devices shall be attached to any portion of an
SES.
   I.   Architectural Standards: The design, materials, and location of all
proposed SES facilities shall be compatible with neighboring buildings.
   J.   Use And Energy-Production Restrictions:
      1.   Except in any residential zoning district in the Village, an SES
need not be an accessary use, and may be permitted as a primary "stand-alone"
use.
      2.   The purpose of any SES may be the production of energy for
consumption on the property on which the SES is located; or may be for
production of energy to be shared through a "community solar system."
      3.   Where storage batteries or electrical transformers are utilized as
part of an SES, such batteries or transformers shall be clearly labeled with
appropriate warnings, and shall be securely enclosed or otherwise contained so
as to minimize potential electrical shock, fire, or explosion.
   K.   Maintenance:
      1.   SES facilities shall be maintained in operable condition at all
times, except for reasonable periods of maintenance or repair.
      2.   Should an SES become inoperable (not in operable condition), or
should any part of the SES become damaged, or should an SES violate a permit
condition, the owner of the SES shall cease operations immediately and remedy
the condition within ninety (90) days after receipt of a notice from the
Village regarding the condition; provided, however, that if the condition
presents an immediate threat to the public health, safety, or welfare, the
owner of the SES shall promptly remedy the condition, with or without any
notice from the Village.
   L.   Decommissioning:
      1.   Any SES that is not in operable condition for a period exceeding
thirty (30) consecutive days shall be deemed abandoned. The owner of an
abandoned SES and the owner of the property on which the SES is located shall
be responsible for and shall cause the removal of any abandoned SES and all
related equipment and appurtenances within thirty (30) days after receipt of a
notice of abandonment from the Village.
      2.   Any abandoned SES that is not removed within thirty (30) days after
receipt of notice of abandonment shall be deemed a public nuisance, which
nuisance the Village shall have the right, but not the obligation, to summarily
abate by removing the SES and all related equipment and appurtenances, and to
charge against and collect from the owners, jointly and severally, the costs
and expenses of such removal.
      3.   Upon removal of the SES, the subject property shall be restored to
its original pre-SES construction condition. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-24-4: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (SES):
   A.   Building Mounted Solar Energy Systems (SES-BM):
      1.   Permitted Locations:
         a.   SES-BM, when flush-mounted, shall be a permitted use in all
zoning districts in the Village.
         b.   SES-BM, when non-flush mounted, shall be a permitted use only in
the B-1, B-2, B-3 and HC Districts, and in the M-1, M-2, M-3 and O-M Districts;
and an SES-BM, when non-flush mounted, may not be installed in any residential
zoning district in the Village.
         c.   Except as otherwise expressly provided in this article, all SES-
BM shall comply with all applicable regulations of the zoning district in which
such use and structures are located, including all regulations applicable to
accessory uses and structures, and all applicable requirements of this article.
         d.   An SES-BM may be mounted only on a lawfully constructed and
existing principal or accessory use.
      2.   Installation: All SES-BM may be structurally attached to the roof of
a building, if otherwise in accordance with the Village's Building Codes.
         a.   An SES-BM can be installed on the principal structure of a lot or
on an accessory structure if allowed by Village Building Codes.
         b.   An SES-BM shall occupy a maximum of eighty percent (80%) of the
roof area unless otherwise specifically allowed by the Village; and in no case
shall occupy more than one hundred percent (100%) of the total roof area.
         c.   An SES-BM, when non-flush mounted, may be installed only on a
building with a flat roof.
         d.   An SES-BM shall not extend more than two feet (2') beyond the
exterior perimeter of the building on which it is mounted, as measured
horizontally from the facade or roof edge on which it is mounted.
      3.   Height:
         a.   In a residential zoning district, an SES-BM, and any portion
thereof, shall extend no more than five feet (5') above the roof of the
structure on which it is mounted, and in no case shall it exceed the
requirement of maximum building height of the zoning district in which it is
located.
         b.   In any business or industrial zoning district, an SES-BM, and any
portion thereof, shall extend no more than fifteen feet (15') above the highest
point of the roof of the structure on which it is mounted.
   B.   Building-Integrated Solar Energy System (SES-BI):
      1.   Permitted Locations: An SES-BI shall be a permitted use in all
zoning districts in the Village
      2.   Applicable Regulations: Except as otherwise expressly provided in
this article, any SES-BI shall comply with all applicable regulations of the
zoning district in which such use and structures are located, including all
regulations applicable to accessory uses and structures, and all applicable
requirements of this article.
      3.   Installation:
         a.   An SES-BI shall occupy no more than eighty percent (80%) of the
roof area unless otherwise specifically approved by the Village.
         b.   An SES-BI can be installed as part of the principal structure of
a lot or of an accessory structure if allowed by Village Building Codes.
   C.   Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems (SES-GM):
      1.   Permitted Locations: An SES-GM may be installed in the B-1, B-2, B-
3 and HC Districts, and in the M-1, M-2, M-3 and O-M Districts, but only upon
issuance of a special use permit; an SES-GM may not be installed in any
residential zoning district in the Village.
      2.   Applicable Regulations: Except as otherwise expressly provided in
this article, any SES-GM shall comply with all applicable regulations of the
zoning district in which such use and structures are located, including all
regulations applicable to accessory uses and structures, and all applicable
requirements of this article.
      3.   Setbacks: An SES-GM shall be located within the buildable area of a
zoning lot, and shall be set back not less than a distance of one times the
actual height of the system, or ten feet (10'), whichever is less.
      4.   Installation: An SES-GM shall be installed in conformance with the
following standards:
         a.   No SES-GM shall be located in the front yard of any property.
         b.   No part of an SES-GM shall be located in or protrude into a
dedicated easement.
      5.   Height: No portion of any SES-GM, when oriented at maximum tilt,
shall exceed ten feet (10') in height.
      6.   Screening: An SES-GM shall be screened to the extent reasonably
practicable through the use of architectural features, earthen berms,
landscaping materials, or other screening technique which harmonizes with the
character of the property on which it is located and the surrounding area.
(Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-24-5: APPLICATION FOR SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES):
The applicant for installation of any SES shall submit the following:
   A.   Any SES.
      1.   Generally applicable requirements:
         a.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
         b.   Name, address and telephone number of the person, firm or
corporation constructing and installing the SES.
         c.   A copy of the directions issued by the manufacturer of the
proposed SES for the proper installation, operation, and maintenance of the
SES.
         d.   A certificate of compliance demonstrating the system has been
tested and approved by the Underwriters Laboratories (UL) or other approved
independent testing agency.
         e.   Approval letter from the local electric utility company, if the
system is to be connected to the energy grid.
         f.   Any other information required by the Village to show full
compliance with this and other applicable laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations.
      2.   Engineering Plan. An engineering plan include, without limitation,
the manufacturer's engineering specifications of the solar collectors and
devices including wattage capacity, dimensions of such collectors, mounting
mechanisms and/or foundation details, and structural requirements.
   B.   SES-BM or SES-BL The applicant for installation of any SES-BM or SES-BI
shall, in addition, submit an elevation drawing and/or photographs showing the
location, size and design details of the proposed SES-BM or SES-BL
   C.   SES-GM. An applicant for installation of an SES-GM shall, in addition,
submit a site plan, drawn to scale, signed and sealed by a professional
engineer licensed in the State of Illinois, and including, without limitation,
the following:
      1.   The existing and proposed contours, at a minimum of two-foot (2')
intervals;
      2.   The location, setbacks, exterior dimensions and square footage of
all structures on the subject property;
      3.   The location and size of any and all existing waterways, wetlands,
one hundred (100)-year floodplains, sanitary sewers, field drain tiles, storm
sewer systems, aquifers, and water distribution systems on the subject
property; and
      4.   The location of any overhead or underground power lines and utility
easements.
   D.   Special Use SES. An applicant for any special use related to an SES
shall as a condition of approval, sign and deliver to the village manager an
acknowledgement, on a form supplied by the Village, that said owner shall be
responsible for any and all enforcement costs and costs of remediation
resulting from any violation of this article, including but not limited to
costs related to maintenance and/or decommissioning as describe in this
article. Such costs shall include but not be limited to costs of removal, costs
of restoration of the property after removal, and Village legal or other
consultant fees incurred in relation thereto.
   E.   Application Fee: The fee shall be as set by the village from time to
time. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-24-6: EXEMPTIONS:
Any SES used to generate electricity for stand-alone light fixtures, including
streetlights or area lights, or for stand-alone regulatory signs, shall be
exempt from the requirements of this article. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
ARTICLE XXV
CONSTRUCTION HOURS
SECTION:
5-25-1: Construction Hours
5-25-2: Definitions
5-25-3: Penalty
5-25-1: CONSTRUCTION HOURS:
   A.   Prohibitions: Except as provided in subsection B. of this section, and
except as may otherwise have been or may be agreed by the corporate authorities
as to annexation or development of a specific property, no person shall engage
in any construction activities in the Village during the following times:
      1.   On a property located in any residential zoning district, prior to
seven o’clock (7:00) a.m. or after nine o’clock (9:00) p.m., any day.
      2.   On a property located in any business or manufacturing zoning
district:
         a.   Prior to six o’clock (6:00) a.m. or after eight o’clock (8:00)
p.m., Monday through Saturday.
         b.   At any time on any Sunday or on any legal holiday observed in the
Village, unless otherwise allowed by special permit as specified in subsection
B of this section.
   B.   Special Permit: Construction activities may be conducted by a person at
such times as are specified by special permit issued by the Village. A special
permit shall specify the time(s) allowed for construction activities.
      1.   A special permit may be issued for construction activities on a
property located in a business or manufacturing zoning district, for certain
hours between eight o’clock (8:00) a.m. and five o’clock (5:00) p.m. on a
Sunday or on any legal holiday observed in the village. Such permit shall be
for no more than a one (1) week period, including therein no more than one (1)
weekend and/or holiday period. Such permit may be issued by the village manager
or his or her designee upon written application therefor and approval thereof.
      2.   A Special Permit may otherwise be issued by the village manager or
his or her designee for construction activities on any property, for any hours,
but only if he or she finds that:
         a.   Issuance of the permit is in the interest of public health or
safety; or
         b.   The permit is necessary to avoid substantial loss or
inconvenience to an interested party, and the public health and safety will not
be impaired.
      3.   The fee for a special permit shall be two hundred and fifty dollars
($250.00).
   C.   Any person cited for a violation of this section shall immediately
cease all construction activities; and may be charged with a new and separate
offense if construction activities are not so halted or are resumed at any
prohibited time thereafter. (Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
5-25-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this section, "construction activities" shall mean any
construction, installation, erection, demolition, repair or maintenance of any
structure, flatwork or landscaping and shall include but not be limited to
excavation, cement work, other flatwork, hammering, cutting/sawing, drilling,
operation of power tools, and/or operation of motorized equipment. (Ord. 22-27,
10-6-2022)
5-25-3: PENALTY:
Any person who is found to have violated this section shall be fined an amount
not less than four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00), and not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and shall also pay any applicable court costs.
In addition, for any citation for a second or subsequent offense, the Village
shall issue a stop work order for a period of not less than five (5) days.
(Ord. 22-27, 10-6-2022)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING
Title And Purpose   I
Rules And Definitions   II
General Regulations   III
Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses   IV
Zoning Districts   V
Estate Districts   VI
Residence Districts   VII
Business Districts   VIII
Industrial Districts   IX
Farming District   X
Off Street Loading And Parking   XI
Community Graphics   XII
Penalties   XIII
Administration   XIV
Planned Developments (Rep. by Ord. 03-01, 4-3-2003)   XV
Interchange Overlay District   XVI
Large Scale Business Planned Development District Regulations   XVII
Planned Residential Development District   XVIII
Communications Towers And Antennas   XIX
Keeping Of Chickenns   XX
Electric Vehicle Charging   XXI
ARTICLE I
TITLE AND PURPOSE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Title
6-1-2: Purposes And Intent
6-1-3: Separability
6-1-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known, cited, and referred to as THE ZONING ORDINANCE FOR
THE VILLAGE OF HAMPSHIRE, COUNTY OF KANE, STATE OF ILLINOIS. (1985 Code)
6-1-2: PURPOSES AND INTENT:
   A.   The purposes of this Chapter are as follows:
      1.   Promoting the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience,
and general welfare.
      2.   Securing adequate light, pure air, and safety from fire and other
dangers.
      3.   Conserving the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
Village of Hampshire.
   B.   To these ends this Chapter is designed to set up and accomplish certain
standards and objectives by the following means:
      1.   Dividing the entire Village of Hampshire into districts and
restricting and regulating therein the location, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, and use of buildings, structures, and land, whether for residence,
business, manufacturing or other specified uses.
      2.   Avoiding or lessening congestion in the public streets.
      3.   Preventing the overcrowding of land through regulating and limiting
the height and bulk of buildings thereafter erected as related to land area.
      4.   Establishing, regulating, and limiting the building or setback lines
on or along streets, alleys, or property lines.
      5.   Regulating and limiting the intensity of the use of lot areas, and
regulating and determining the area of open spaces within and surrounding such
buildings.
      6.   Establishing standards to which buildings or structures therein
shall conform.
      7.   Prohibiting uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the
character of the established zoning districts.
      8.   Preventing additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed hereunder.
      9.   Providing for the gradual elimination of those uses, buildings, and
structures which are incompatible with the character of the districts in which
they are made or located, including, without being limited thereto:
         a.   Elimination of such uses of unimproved lands or lot areas when
existing rights or the persons in possession thereof are terminated or when the
uses to which they are devoted are discontinued;
         b.   Elimination of uses to which such buildings and structures are
devoted if they are adaptable for permitted uses; and
         c.   Elimination of such buildings and structures when they are
destroyed or damaged in major part, or when they have reached the age fixed by
the Village Board as the normal useful life of such buildings or structures.
      10.   Providing for the acquisition by purchase, condemnation, or
otherwise of any buildings or structures which do not conform to the standards
fixed by the Village of Hampshire.
      11.   Defining and limiting the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein.
      12.   Prescribing penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
Chapter or of any amendment hereto. (1985 Code)
6-1-3: SEPARABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Hampshire that the several provisions of this Chapter are severable
in accordance with the following:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this Chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provision
of this Chapter not specifically included in said judgment.
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this Chapter to a particular property,
building, or structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said
provision to any other property, building, or structure not specifically
included in said judgment. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE II
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Rules Of Construction
6-2-2: Definitions
6-2-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
The following rules shall be applied in construing the meanings of the
provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future.
   B.   The singular number shall include the plural and the plural the
singular.
   C.   The word "building" shall include the word "structure".
   D.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   E.   The word "may" is permissive. (1985 Code)
6-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
ABUTS, ABUTTING:                                                     Having a common property line or district line.
                                                                     A detached subordinate building or a portion of a principal building, the use of
ACCESSORY BUILDING:                                                  which is incidental to that of the dominant use of the principal building; also
                                                                     swimming pools with fencing.
ACCESSORY USE:                                                       A use of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use.
                                                                     The Illinois Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation And Tax Act (PA 101-0027), as
ACT:                                                                 originally enacted effective June 25, 2019 and as thereafter may be amended from
                                                                     time to time.
ADJACENT:                                                            To lie near or close to, in the neighborhood or vicinity of.
ADJOINING:                                                           Touching or contiguous, as distinguished from lying near or adjacent.
                                                                     An establishment to which the public or its members are permitted or invited to:
                                                                     a) view or participate in live performances characterized by the exposure of
                                                                     "specified anatomical areas", or by "specified sexual activities" or b) view
ADULT ARCADE:                                                        still or moving images distinguished or characterized by the depicting or
                                                                     describing of "specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities",
                                                                     all through the use of coin operated or electronically, electrically, or
                                                                     mechanically controlled devices to display the live performance or the images, to
                                                                     five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one time.
                                                                     An establishment having as a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
                                                                     trade for sale, rent, lease, inspection or viewing, books, magazines and
                                                                     periodicals, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other
                                                                     photographic reproductions, all of which are distinguished or characterized by
                                                                     their emphasis on material depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual
ADULT BOOK OR ADULT VIDEO STORE:                                     activities" or "specified anatomical areas" unless it is demonstrated that
                                                                     either:
                                                                     A.   Revenue from the sale, lease, inspection, viewing or rental of the matter
                                                                     depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified
                                                                     anatomical areas" comprises no more than fifty percent (50%) of the gross revenue
                                                                     from the sale and/or rental of all goods at the establishment; or
                                                                     B.   The matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual
                                                                    activities" or "specified anatomical areas" comprises no more than thirty five
                                                                     percent (35%) of the items displayed in the establishment as stock in trade.
                                                                     A public or private nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
                                                                     establishment which regularly features either: a) persons appearing in a state of
                                                                     nudity or partial nudity, b) live performances distinguished or characterized by
                                                                     their emphasis on material depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual
ADULT CABARET:                                                       activities" or "specified anatomical areas" or c) films, motion pictures,
                                                                     videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are
                                                                     distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on material depicting,
                                                                     describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
                                                                     areas".
                                                                     A business having as its substantial or significant business purpose the offering
                                                                     to the public or its members a product or service including, but not limited to,
                                                                     entertainment, intended to provide sexual stimulation or sexual gratification,
                                                                     and which product or service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT:                                   matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or
                                                                     "specified anatomical areas", including, but not limited to, the following uses:
                                                                     A.   Adult arcade.
                                                                     B.   Adult book or adult video store.
                                                                     C.   Adult cabaret.
                                                                     D.   Adult merchandise retailer.
                                                                     E.   Adult motion picture theater.
                                                                     F.   Adult minimotion picture theater.
                                                                     The term "adult entertainment establishment" shall not be construed to include:
                                                                     a) any business operated by or employing licensed psychologists, licensed
                                                                    physical therapists, licensed athletic trainers, licensed cosmetologists, or
                                                                     licensed barbers performing functions authorized under the licenses held, b) any
                                                                     business operated by or employing licensed physicians or licensed healing arts,
                                                                     or c) any retail establishment whose primary business is the offering of wearing
                                                                     apparel for sale to its customers.
                                                                     A retail establishment deriving more than fifty percent (50%) of its gross
ADULT MERCHANDISE RETAILER:                                          revenue from the sale of merchandise designed or marketed for use in conjunction
                                                                     with "specified sexual activities".
                                                                     An enclosed building, or an area within a building, having a capacity for less
                                                                     than fifty (50) persons, and used regularly and routinely for presenting motion
ADULT MINIMOTION PICTURE THEATER:                                    picture films, videocassettes, cable television, and/or any such visual media,
                                                                     all of which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on material
                                                                     depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified
                                                                     anatomical areas" to its patrons.
                                                                     An enclosed building, or an area within a building, having a capacity of fifty
                                                                     (50) or more persons, and used regularly and routinely for presenting motion
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER:                                        picture films, videocassettes, cable television, and/or any such visual media,
                                                                     all of which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on material
                                                                     depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified
                                                                     anatomical areas" to its patrons.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT:                           A cultivation center facility, craft grower facility, processing facility,
                                                                     dispensing facility, or transporting facility as defined herein.
                                                                     A facility operated by an adult-use cannabis craft grower organization to
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER FACILITY:                            cultivate, dry, cure, and package cannabis and perform other necessary activities
                                                                     to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or use at a
                                                                     processing organization, including the following provisions:
                                                                     An organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER ORGANIZATION:                        Financial and Professional Regulation to operate an adult-use cannabis craft
                                                                     grower facility.
                                                                     A facility operated by an adult-use cannabis cultivation organization to
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER FACILITY:                      cultivate, process, transport (unless otherwise limited by this Act), and perform
                                                                     other necessary activities to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to
                                                                     cannabis business establishments.
                                                                     An organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION ORGANIZATION:                         Financial and Professional Regulation to operate an adult-use cannabis
                                                                     cultivation center facility.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSARY:                                       A facility operated by a dispensing organization at which activities licensed by
                                                                     this Act may occur.
                                                                     A facility operated by an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization for the
                                                                     purpose of acquiring cannabis from licensed cannabis business establishments for
                                                                     the purpose of selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-infused products,
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING FACILITY:                              cannabis seeds, paraphernalia, or related supplies to purchasers or to qualified
                                                                     registered medical cannabis patients and caregivers, in accordance with the
                                                                     provisions of the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as enacted and as it
                                                                     may be amended from time-to-time thereafter, and any regulations promulgated
                                                                     thereunder.
                                                                     An organization or business that is licensed by the Department of Financial and
                                                                     Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from a cultivation center, craft
                                                                     grower, processing organization, or another dispensary for the purpose of selling
                                                                     or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia,
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION:                          or related supplies under this Act to purchasers or to qualified registered
                                                                     medical cannabis patients and caregivers. As used in this Act, dispensary
                                                                     organization shall include a registered medical cannabis organization as defined
                                                                     in the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act or its successor
                                                                     Act that has obtained an Early Approval Adult-Use Dispensing Organization
                                                                     License.
                                                                     A facility operated by an adult-use cannabis infuser organization to directly
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER FACILITY or INFUSER:                      incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a product formulation to
                                                                     produce a cannabis-infused product.
                                                                     An organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION:                             Financial and Professional Regulation to operate an adult-use cannabis infuser
                                                                     facility.
                                                                     A facility operated by an adult-use cannabis processing organization to either
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING FACILITY or PROCESSOR:                 extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce cannabis concentrate or
                                                                     incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a product formulation to
                                                                     produce a cannabis product.
                                                                     An organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION:                          Financial and Professional Regulation to operate an adult-use cannabis processing
                                                                     facility.
                                                                     A facility operated by an adult-use transporting organization to transport
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING FACILITY:                            cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a community college
                                                                     licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot Program.
                                                                     An organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION:                        Financial and Professional Regulation to operate an adult-use cannabis
                                                                     transporting facility.
AIRCRAFT:                                                            Any contrivance, now known or hereafter invented for use in or designed for
                                                                     navigation of or flight in the air.
                                                                     Any premises which are used or intended for use for the landing and take off of
AIRPORT (LANDING STRIP, HELIPORT OR HELISTOP):                       aircraft; and any appurtenant areas which are used or intended for use for
                                                                     airport buildings or other airport structures or rights of way together with all
                                                                     airport buildings and structures located thereon.
                                                                     Any right of way, with a width of not less than sixteen feet (16') nor more than
ALLEY:                                                               twenty four feet (24'), which affords a secondary means of vehicular access to
                                                                     abutting properties. A street shall not be considered an alley.
ALTERATION:                                                          Any change in size, shape, occupancy or use of a building or structure.
                                                                     A building which may offer a variety of recreational facilities including, but
AMUSEMENT ESTABLISHMENT:                                             not limited to, bowling alleys, pool halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools and
                                                                     skating rinks.
                                                                     A commercially operated park with various devices for entertainment including,
AMUSEMENT PARK:                                                      but not limited to, "carnival type" establishments utilizing mechanical devices
                                                                     for recreational purposes, go-cart tracks, miniature golf and driving ranges.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL:                                                     A building or portion thereof designed or used for the care, observation, or
                                                                     treatment of domestic animals.
APARTMENT:                                                           See definition of Dwelling, Multiple-Family.
                                                                     Any pennant, flag, valance, banner, propeller, spinner, streamer, searchlights,
ATTENTION GETTING DEVICE:                                            balloons, or similar devices or ornamentation designed for the purpose of
                                                                     attracting attention, promotion, advertising, or similar purposes.
                                                                     Any building or portion thereof, structure, or premises used for the repair of an
AUTOMOBILE BODY REPAIR SHOP:                                         automobile body, chassis, or frame, or for repainting of an automobile body or
                                                                     chassis.
                                                                     Any building or portion thereof where automobiles are washed, using a conveyor,
AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY:                                                  blower, steam cleaning equipment, or other mechanical device of production line
                                                                     nature.
                                                                     Any building or portion thereof, structure and premises used for dispensing or
                                                                     offering for sale at retail to the public fuel for passenger vehicles with a
                                                                     gross vehicle weight rating of ten thousand pounds (10,000 lbs.) or less; and
                                                                     where lubricating oil and grease, tires, batteries and similar accessories and
                                                                     parts for passenger vehicles also may be offered for sale. Fuel may be stored on
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION:                                          the premises or in the form of dedicated electric vehicle charging stations
                                                                     (EVCS). An automobile service station may also include accessory uses incidental
                                                                     to the primary operation including, but not limited to, restaurants, convenience
                                                                     stores, and video gaming terminals. Automobile service stations do not include
                                                                     automobile body repair shops, automobile laundries, or automobile vehicle sales
                                                                     lots.
                                                                     An establishment engaged primarily in the fueling and/or charging of automobiles
                                                                     and tractor trucks or similar heavy commercial vehicles. An automobile/truck stop
                                                                     establishment may also include accessory uses incidental to the primary operation
                                                                     of the automobile /truck stop, including but not limited to restaurants,
AUTOMOBILE/TRUCK STOP:                                               convenience stores, service and repair stations, vehicle accessory and equipment
                                                                     sales, automobile/truck laundries, video gaming terminals, overnight
                                                                     accommodations, and showers. Over-the-road trucks shall be allowed to stop at an
                                                                     automobile/truck stop and park overnight, or for any other period in which the
                                                                     operator of the truck takes mandatory down-time or sleeps to enable the operator
                                                                     to return to service.
                                                                     Any premises or portion thereof used for the display and sales of automotive
AUTOMOBILE VEHICLE SALES LOT:                                        vehicles, new or used. Such premises may include automobile services and repair
                                                                     facilities as an accessory use.
                                                                     Any area of land where three (3) or more motor vehicles, not in running
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD:                                            condition, or the parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not being
                                                                     restored to operation, or any land, building, or structure used for the wrecking
                                                                     or storing of such automobiles or parts thereof.
AWNING:                                                              A rooflike mechanism, retractable in operation, and covered with flexible
                                                                     textured material, which projects from the wall of a building.
                                                                     A portion of a building located partly underground, but having less than one-half
BASEMENT:                                                            (1/2) its clear floor to ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining
                                                                     ground.
                                                                     A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and public
BLOCK:                                                               parks, railroad rights of way, or other similar natural boundaries. A block may
                                                                     be located in part beyond the boundary lines of the corporate limits of the
                                                                     village.
                                                                     A residence in which table, board or sleeping accommodations, or both, are
BOARDING HOUSE:                                                      provided for compensation for any person who is not a member of the keeper's
                                                                     family.
                                                                     Any business operation at which the skin of a live human being is penetrated so
                                                                     as to make a hole, mark or scar that is generally permanent, or intended to be
BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENT:                                         generally permanent, in nature; but does not include any business operation where
                                                                     practices that are considered medical procedures are performed, and does not
                                                                     include the puncturing of the outer perimeter or lobe of the ear using a
                                                                     presterilized, single use stud and clasp ear piercing system.
                                                                     A "microbrewery", as defined herein, that conducts retail sale of beer
BREW PUB:                                                            manufactured on the premises, and other alcoholic beverages not manufactured on
                                                                     the premises, in conjunction with the operation of a restaurant on the premises.
BUILDABLE AREA:                                                      For the purpose of measuring lot width, the narrowest width within the thirty
                                                                     feet (30') of lot depth immediately in back of the front yard line.
BUILDING:                                                            Anything constructed for shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or
                                                                     movable property of any kind, and which is permanently affixed to the land.
                                                                     A building separated on all sides from the adjacent open space or from other
BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED:                                       buildings or other structures by a permanent roof and by exterior walls having
                                                                     only windows and normal entrance or exit doors, or by party walls.
BUILDING, DETACHED:                                                  A building surrounded by open space.
                                                                     The vertical distance measured from the established curb level to the highest
                                                                     point of the underside of the ceiling beams, in the case of a flat roof; to the
BUILDING HEIGHT:                                                     deck line of a mansard roof; and to the mean level of the underside of rafters
                                                                     between the eaves and the ridge of a gable, hip, or gambrel roof. Chimneys,
                                                                     spires, towers, elevator penthouses, tanks and similar projections other than
                                                                     signs shall not be included in calculating height.
BUILDING LINE:                                                       The line as established by the face of the building.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL:                                                 A nonaccessory building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot.
                                                                     A building arranged, designed, used or intended to be used for residential
                                                                     occupancy by one or more families. Residential buildings include, but are not
BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL:                                               limited to, the following types: a) single-family detached dwellings; b) two-
                                                                     family dwellings; c) multiple-family dwellings; and d) a row of one- or two-
                                                                     family attached dwellings developed initially under single ownership or control.
BUILDING, TEMPORARY:                                                 Any building not designed to be permanently located in the place where it is or
                                                                     where it is intended to be placed or affixed.
                                                                     A composite characteristic of a given building as located upon a given lot, not
                                                                     definable as a single quantity, but involving all of the following
                                                                     characteristics: a) size and height of building; b) location of exterior walls at
BULK:                                                                all levels in relation to lot lines, streets or to other buildings; c) gross
                                                                     floor area of the building in relation to lot area (floor area ratio); d) all
                                                                     open spaces allocated to the building; and e) the amount of lot area provided per
                                                                     dwelling unit.
                                                                     An occupation, employment, or enterprise which occupies time, attention, labor,
BUSINESS:                                                            and materials, or wherein merchandise is exhibited or sold, or where services are
                                                                     offered.
                                                                     A structure, other than an awning, made of cloth, metal, or other material with
CANOPY:                                                              frames attached to a building, and carried by a frame supported by the ground or
                                                                     sidewalk.
CAPACITY IN PERSONS:                                                 The maximum number of persons that can avail themselves of the service (or good)
                                                                     of an establishment or use at any one time, with reasonable comfort and safety.
CARPORT:                                                             A roofed automobile shelter with at least two (2) open sides.
                                                                     A story having more than one-half (1/2) of its floor to clear ceiling height
CELLAR:                                                              below grade. A cellar is not included in computing the number of stories for the
                                                                     purpose of height measurement.
CHICKEN:                                                             In reference to Article XX of this Chapter, a member of the sub-species Gallus
                                                                     gallus domesticus, a domesticated fowl.
                                                                     A building or portion thereof, the principal use of which is for offices of an
CLINIC, MEDICAL OR DENTAL:                                           organization or group practice of specializing physicians or dentists or both,
                                                                     and contains facilities for examination and treatment of patients but without
                                                                     facilities for overnight lodging.
                                                                     A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide paying members paying dues,
CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE:                                              which owns, hires, or leases a building or portion thereof, the use of such
                                                                     premises being restricted to members and their guests.
                                                                     A container or box for the collection of used, secondhand or preowned
                                                                     (cumulatively referred to herein as "secondhand") items which may be accepted
COLLECTION CONTAINER FOR SECONDHAND ITEMS:                           therein by the owner thereof, including, but not limited to, items of apparel,
                                                                     clothing, or footwear, or reading materials, for example. A collection container
                                                                     for secondhand items is not an accessory use in any zoning district, and is
                                                                     permitted only as a special use where allowed under this chapter.
CONTIGUOUS:                                                          In actual contact.
COOP:                                                                An accessory structure meant for housing chickens.
COTTAGE FOOD OPERATIONS:                                             As defined by the Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act, 410 ILCS 625/0.01 et
                                                                     seq.
                                                                     The level of the established curb in front of a building or structure, measured
CURB LEVEL:                                                          at the center of such front. Where no curb level has been established, it shall
                                                                     be deemed to be the established level of the centerline of the street surface in
                                                                     front of a building or structure, measured at the centerline of such front.
DECIBEL:                                                             A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound. Sound level meters
                                                                     which are employed to measure the intensity of sound are calibrated in decibels.
                                                                     A portion of the corporate area of the village of Hampshire, as designated on the
DISTRICT:                                                            zoning district map, within which certain uniform regulations and requirements,
                                                                     or various combinations thereof, apply under the provisions of this comprehensive
                                                                     amendment.
                                                                     An establishment where clipping, bathing, and other services except that of a
DOMESTIC PET SERVICE:                                                veterinary nature are rendered to dogs, cats, and domestic pets. No boarding
                                                                     shall be permitted.
DOG KENNEL:                                                          See definition of Kennel.
                                                                     An establishment or part thereof in which are provided facilities where serving
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT:                                              or consuming commodities or both are intended to occur primarily in patrons'
                                                                     automobiles parked on the premises.
                                                                     A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for residential
DWELLING:                                                            purposes, including single-family, two-family, and multiple-family dwellings, but
                                                                     not including lodging rooms in hotels, motels, or lodging houses.
DWELLING, ATTACHED:                                                  A dwelling joined to two (2) other dwellings by party walls, or cavity walls, and
                                                                     above-ground physically unifying horizontal structural elements.
DWELLING, DETACHED:                                                  A dwelling which is surrounded on all sides by open space on the same lot.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY:                                           A building containing three (3) or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY:                                             A building containing one dwelling unit only.
DWELLING, SEMI-DETACHED:                                             A dwelling joined to one other dwelling by a party wall, or cavity wall, and
                                                                     other above-ground physically unifying horizontal structural element.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY:                                                A dwelling containing two (2) dwelling units only, one above the other.
                                                                     One or more rooms which are arranged, designed, or used as living quarters for
DWELLING UNIT:                                                       one family only. Individual bathroom and complete single kitchen facilities,
                                                                     permanently installed to serve the entire family, shall always be included within
                                                                     each "dwelling unit".
                                                                     A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room, together with bathroom,
EFFICIENCY UNIT:                                                     kitchen, hallway, closets, and/or dining alcove directly off the principal room,
                                                                     provided such dining alcove does not exceed one hundred twenty five (125) square
                                                                     feet in area.
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION CENTER:                                        A terminal at which electric energy is received from the transmission system and
                                                                     is delivered to the distribution system only.
                                                                     A terminal at which electric energy is received from transmission system and is
ELECTRIC SUBSTATION:                                                 delivered to other elements of the transmission system and, generally, to the
                                                                     local distribution system.
                                                                     A battery-powered electric vehicle operated solely by electricity or a plug-in
ELECTRIC VEHICLE:                                                    hybrid electric vehicle that operates on electricity and gasoline and has a
                                                                     battery that can be recharged from an external source.
                                                                     A stationary unit of equipment and infrastructure, with additional safety
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION (EVCS), PRIVATE:                   features beyond simply a cord and wall outlet, whether located indoors or
                                                                     outdoors, that supplies electricity fro the recharging of electric vehicles owned
                                                                     by the property owner or tenant, including fleet charging.
                                                                     A stationary unit of equipment and infrastructure, with additional safety
                                                                     features beyond simply a cord and wall outlet, whether located indoors or
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION (EVCS), RETAIL:                    outdoors, that supplies electricity for the recharging of electric vehicles that
                                                                     is open to the public, including employees, for retail use, whether or not for
                                                                     charge (See also automobile service station or automobile/truck stop).
                                                                     One person or two (2) or more persons each related to the other by blood,
                                                                     marriage, or legal adoption, or a group of not more than three (3) persons not
FAMILY:                                                              all so related, together with his or their domestic servants, maintaining a
                                                                     common household in a dwelling unit. A family may include in addition thereto,
                                                                     not more than two (2) roomers, boarders or permanent guests, whether or not
                                                                     gratuitous.
FARMING:                                                             Normally, animal husbandry and the production of farm related products; however,
                                                                     not to exclude gravel, mining, and various other special uses.
FENCE:                                                               A structure, or tree or shrub hedge which is a barrier and used as a boundary or
                                                                     means of protection or confinement.
                                                                     A fence, including gates, which has, for each one foot (1') wide segment
FENCE, OPEN:                                                         extending over the entire length and height of the fence, at least fifty percent
                                                                     (50%) of the surface area in open spaces which afford a direct view through the
                                                                     fence.
                                                                     Any fence, wall or other structure which, when erected or installed in any yard,
                                                                     or between any two (2) or more yards, including yards on adjoining properties,
FENCE OR OTHER ENCLOSURE:                                            obstructs, impedes, or precludes ready access to any existing utility facility or
                                                                     appurtenance, such as an equipment box, a catch basin, or any other such facility
                                                                     or appurtenance, by causing same to be enclosed.
FENCE, SOLID:                                                        A fence, including gates, which conceals from view from adjoining properties,
                                                                     streets or alleys and activities conducted behind it.
                                                                     In reference to Article XX of this Chapter, an area with outdoor exposure meant
FENCED AREA:                                                         for allowing chickens to roam while also keeping them within the area perimeter;
                                                                     commonly referred to as a "run" or a "pen."
                                                                     A group of two (2) or more incandescent light bulbs hung or strung overhead, not
FESTOON LIGHTING:                                                    on a building or structure, which are not shaded or hooded to prevent the direct
                                                                     rays of light from being visible from the property line.
FLOOD CREST ELEVATION:                                               The elevation of the established flood level as designated by the Kane County
                                                                     environmental division or the village engineer of Hampshire.
                                                                     That contiguous area of land adjacent to a stream or streambed, or any stormwater
                                                                     retention area and its tributaries, having an elevation equal to or lower than
FLOODPLAIN AREA:                                                     flood crest elevation, including also land less than ten (10) acres in area
                                                                     having an elevation higher than flood crest elevation and which is completely
                                                                     surrounded by land in a "floodplain" area.
                                                                     The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors, including also the
                                                                     basement floor of a building, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior
                                                                     walls, or from the centerlines of walls separating two (2) buildings. The "floor
                                                                     area" shall also include the horizontal areas on each floor devoted to: a)
                                                                     elevator shafts and stairwells; b) mechanical equipment, except if located on the
                                                                     roof, when either open or closed; i.e., bulkheads, water tanks, and cooling
                                                                     towers; c) habitable attic space as permitted by the building code of the village
                                                                     of Hampshire; d) interior balconies and mezzanines; e) enclosed porches; f)
FLOOR AREA (For Determining Floor Area Ratio):                       accessory uses. The "floor area" of structures used for bulk storage of
                                                                     materials; i.e., grain elevators, petroleum tanks; shall also be included in the
                                                                     "floor area" and such "floor area" shall be determined on the basis of the height
                                                                     of such structures with one floor for each ten feet (10') of structure height and
                                                                     if such structure measures less than ten feet (10') but not less than five feet
                                                                     (5') over such floor height intervals, it shall be construed to have an
                                                                     additional floor.
                                                                     The horizontal area in each floor of a building devoted to off street parking and
                                                                     off street loading facilities and the horizontal area of a cellar floor shall not
                                                                     be included in the "floor area".
                                                                     "Floor area" when prescribed as the basis of measurement for off street parking
                                                                     spaces and off street loading spaces for any use shall be the sum of the gross
FLOOR AREA (For Determining Off Street Parking And Off Street        horizontal area of the several floors of the building, excluding areas used for
Loading Requirements):                                               accessory off street parking facilities and the horizontal areas of the basement
                                                                     and cellar floors that are devoted exclusively to uses accessory to the operation
                                                                     of the building. All horizontal dimensions shall be taken from the exterior faces
                                                                     of the walls.
                                                                     The numerical value obtained by dividing the "floor area" within a building or
                                                                     buildings on a lot by the area of such lot. The floor area ratio requirement as
FLOOR AREA RATIO:                                                    designated for each district when multiplied by the lot area in square feet shall
                                                                     determine the maximum permissible "floor area" for the building or buildings on
                                                                     the lot.
                                                                     A building or area in which freight brought by motor truck or railroad freight
FREIGHT TERMINAL:                                                    cars is assembled or stored for routing intrastate or interstate shipment by
                                                                     motor trucks or railroad freight cars.
                                                                     All the property on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting streets
                                                                     (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the street, or if the
FRONTAGE:                                                            street is dead end, then all of the property abutting one side between any
                                                                     intersecting street and the dead end of the street, measured along the line of
                                                                     the street.
                                                                     Multiple Frontage: A lot having a frontage on two (2) or more streets.
                                                                     An accessory building designed and used for the storage of motor vehicles owned
                                                                     and used by the occupants of the building to which it is accessory and in which
GARAGE, PRIVATE:                                                     no occupation or business for profit is carried on. In residence districts, no
                                                                     more than one of the motor vehicles so stored may be a commercial vehicle of not
                                                                     more than two (2) tons' capacity.
                                                                     A building or portion thereof other than a private or storage garage, designed or
                                                                     used for equipping, servicing, or repairing motor vehicles. Selling or storing of
GARAGE, PUBLIC:                                                      motor vehicles may be included if conducted completely indoors and if incidental
                                                                     to the primary use. Public garages do not include automobile body repair shops,
                                                                     automobile laundries, or automobile vehicle sales lots.
                                                                     A building or portion thereof other than a private or public garage, designed or
GARAGE, STORAGE:                                                     used exclusively for storage of motor vehicles, and in which motor fuels and oils
                                                                     are not sold, and motor vehicles are not equipped, repaired, hired, or sold.
GARBAGE DUMPSTER:                                                    A refuse collection container.
                                                                     The elevation of the top of the roadway curb or if no curb exists the centerline
                                                                     of the roadway pavement in either case, measured at a point opposite the
GRADE:                                                               centerline of the building wall facing the front lot line or when there are
                                                                     unusual topographic conditions on the lot, and the building is set back more than
                                                                     twenty five feet (25'), "grade" shall be the average elevation of the finished
                                                                     ground grade elevation at the building walls.
                                                                     The lot area covered by a principal building, measured at grade, from the
                                                                     exterior faces of the exterior walls, but excluding open porches or terraces,
GROUND FLOOR AREA:                                                   garages or carports, except the floor area of the ground floor of a building over
                                                                     one story in height and the floor above the garage is used or intended for use as
                                                                     a part of the principal use.
                                                                     A person who occupies or has the right to occupy a lodging house, rooming house,
GUEST, PERMANENT:                                                    boarding house, hotel, apartment hotel or motel accommodations as his domicile
                                                                     and place of permanent residence.
HOME KITCHEN OPERATIONS:                                             As defined by the Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act, 410 ILCS 625/0.01 et
                                                                     seq.
HOME OCCUPATION:                                                     See Section 6-3-16(B).
HOTEL:                                                               A building which provides a common entrance, lobby, halls, and stairways, and in
                                                                     which lodging is offered with or without meals to transient guests.
HOTEL, APARTMENT:                                                    A hotel in which at least fifty percent (50%) of the hotel accommodations are for
                                                                     occupancy by permanent guests.
                                                                     An open area of land and any accessory building or structure thereon which is
                                                                     used primarily for buying, selling, exchanging, storing, baling, packing,
JUNKYARD:                                                            disassembling, or handling waste or scrap materials, including vehicles,
                                                                     machinery and equipment not in operable condition or parts thereof, and other
                                                                     materials, paper, rags, rubber tires and bottles.
                                                                     Any premises (or portion thereof) on which more than three (3) dogs, cats, or
                                                                     other household, domestic animals (over 4 months in age) are kept; or on which
KENNEL:                                                              more than two (2) such animals are maintained, boarded, bred, cared for, in
                                                                     return for remuneration, or for the purpose of sale; or on which a training
                                                                     facility for such animals is operated.
                                                                     A business that provides coin operated self-service type washing, drying, dry
LAUNDERETTE:                                                         cleaning, and ironing facilities, providing that not more than four (4) persons,
                                                                     including owners, are employed on the premises.
LOADING SPACE:                                                       A space within the principal building or on the same lot, providing for the
                                                                     standing, loading or unloading of trucks with access to a street or alley.
                                                                     A building originally designed for and used as a single- or two-family dwelling,
LODGING HOUSE:                                                       all or a portion of which contains rooms which accommodate persons who are not
                                                                     members of the keeper's family, where lodging or meals, or both, are provided for
                                                                     compensation for three (3) or more but not more than ten (10) persons.
                                                                     A room or suite of rooms rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
LODGING ROOM:                                                        cooking facilities and with or without individual bathroom. In a suite of rooms,
                                                                     each room which provides sleeping accommodations shall be counted as one (1)
                                                                     "lodging room" for the purpose of this comprehensive amendment.
                                                                     A single parcel of land which may be legally described as such or may be one, or
                                                                     two (2) or more numbered lots or parts of such lots located within a single block
LOT:                                                                 in a recorded subdivision plat, and occupied by or intended for occupancy by, one
                                                                     principal building or principal use, together with accessory buildings and uses,
                                                                     yards, and other open spaces as required by this comprehensive amendment and
                                                                     having its principal frontage on a street.
LOT AREA:                                                            The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear lines of a
                                                                     lot.
                                                                     A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) or more streets, which streets have
LOT, CORNER:                                                         an interior angle of intersection of not more than one hundred thirty five
                                                                     degrees (135°).
LOT DEPTH:                                                           The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear lot line of
                                                                     a lot measured within the lot boundaries.
                                                                     A property line of any lot held in single or separate ownership, except that
LOT LINE:                                                            where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting street or alley, the lot
                                                                     line shall be deemed to be the established or existing street or alley line.
LOT LINE, FRONT:                                                     That boundary of a lot which abuts a street line.
LOT LINE, FRONT (CORNER LOT):                                        That boundary of a corner lot which abuts a street line and to which the front
                                                                     elevation of the principal structure on the lot faces.
                                                                     That boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is, or is most nearly,
LOT LINE, REAR:                                                      parallel to the front lot line and in the case of an irregular, triangular or
                                                                     gore shaped lot, a line ten feet (10') in length within the lot, parallel to and
                                                                     at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE:                                                      Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
                                                                     A lot which is part of a subdivision, the map of which has been recorded in the
LOT OF RECORD:                                                       office of the county recorder of deeds of Kane County, Illinois, or a parcel of
                                                                     land, the deed of which was recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds of
                                                                     Kane County.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER:                                                A corner lot, where the side lot line abutting a street is substantially a
                                                                     continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its rear.
                                                                     A lot having a pair of opposite lot lines along the two (2) more or less parallel
LOT, THROUGH:                                                        streets. For the purpose of front yard and building height requirements, both
                                                                     street lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
LOT WIDTH:                                                           The minimum horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot measured at
                                                                     the narrowest width within the buildable area.
                                                                     An establishment, the principal use of which is manufacturing, fabricating,
MANUFACTURING:                                                       processing, assembly, repairing, storing, cleaning, servicing, or testing of
                                                                     materials, goods or products.
                                                                     A business having as its principal or substantial business purpose the offering
                                                                     to the public of massage therapy services. For purposes of these regulations,
MASSAGE THERAPY ESTABLISHMENT:                                       "massage therapy" shall have the meaning prescribed to it by state law, 225
                                                                     Illinois Compiled Statutes 57/10, and shall be administered only by "massage
                                                                     therapists" licensed under said law.
                                                                     A brewery that produces less than thirty thousand (30,000) barrels (35,300
MICROBREWERY:                                                        hectoliters) of beer or ale per calendar year made from malt and hops by
                                                                     infusion, bailing and fermentation.
                                                                     A building containing lodging rooms having adjoining individual bathrooms, and
MOTEL:                                                               where each lodging room has a doorway opening directly to the outdoors, and more
                                                                     than fifty percent (50%) of the lodging rooms are for rent to transient tourists
                                                                     for a continuous period of less than thirty (30) days.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL:                                              A building or area in which freight brought by motor truck is assembled or stored
                                                                     for routing in intrastate shipment by motor truck.
MOTOR VEHICLE:                                                       A self-propelled wheeled vehicle designed primarily for transportation of persons
                                                                     or goods along public streets.
NAMEPLATE:                                                           A sign indicating the name and address of a building, or the name of an occupant
                                                                     thereof, and the practice of a permitted occupation therein.
                                                                     Any building or structure lawfully established which: a) does not comply with all
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE:                                 the regulations of this comprehensive amendment or of any amendment hereto
                                                                     governing bulk of the district in which such building or structure is located; or
                                                                     b) is designed or intended for a nonconforming use.
                                                                     Any building or structure and the use thereof or the use of land that does not
                                                                     conform with the regulations of this comprehensive amendment or any amendments
NONCONFORMING USE:                                                   thereto governing use of the district in which it is located but conformed with
                                                                     all of the codes, ordinances, and other legal requirements applicable at the time
                                                                     such building or structure was erected, enlarged, or altered, and the use thereof
                                                                     or the use of land was established.
                                                                     Material which is capable of causing injury to living organisms or is capable of
NOXIOUS MATTER OR MATERIAL:                                          causing detrimental effects upon the health, or the psychological, social, or
                                                                     economic well being of human beings.
NURSERY:                                                             An area where trees, shrubbery and plants are raised for experimental purposes,
                                                                     for transplanting, or for sale.
                                                                     A private residence or other place which, for a fee, provides maintenance,
NURSERY, CHILDCARE:                                                  personal care, supervision and recreational facilities for less than five (5)
                                                                     preelementary school age children.
                                                                     A private school, institution, building, residence or other place operated for
NURSERY SCHOOL:                                                      profit which, through its ownership or management, provides maintenance, personal
                                                                     care, supervision and recreational facilities for five (5) or more preelementary
                                                                     school age children.
                                                                     A private boarding home, institution, building, residence, or other place
                                                                     operated for profit which, through its ownership or management, provides
NURSING HOME:                                                        maintenance, personal care, nursing, and shelter care for the aged, infirm and
                                                                     chronically ill, and in conduct of which provides such service or services to not
                                                                     less than three (3) persons who are not related to the owner by blood or
                                                                     marriage.
ODOR THRESHOLD VALUE:                                                The minimum concentration of odorous material in air which can be detected as
                                                                     determined by Manufacturing Chemists Association or other qualified laboratory.
OFFICE:                                                              The building, room or series of rooms in which the affairs of a business or
                                                                     professional person are carried on.
                                                                     Land used or occupied for the purpose of buying, selling or renting merchandise
OPEN SALES LOT:                                                      stored or displayed out of doors prior to sale. Such merchandise includes
                                                                     automobiles, trucks, motor scooters, motorcycles, boats, or similar commodities.
                                                                     Land within or related to a development that is comprised of a parcel or parcels,
OPEN SPACE:                                                          or an area of land or an area of water, which remains unimproved and is set
                                                                     aside, dedicated, designed or reserved for public use or enjoyment.
                                                                     A tract of land used for public, but noncommercial, recreational purposes or open
PARK, PUBLIC:                                                        space purposes, for active or passive enjoyment by the general public. Such land
                                                                     may contain improvements and facilities for indoor and outdoor recreational
                                                                     activities.
PARKING SPACE:                                                       An area, enclosed in a building or unenclosed, reserved for the parking of one
                                                                     motor vehicle with ingress and egress to a street or alley.
                                                                     Material, other than steam or water vapor, which is suspended or discharged into
PARTICULATE MATTER:                                                  the atmosphere in finely divided form as a liquid or solid at atmospheric
                                                                     pressure and temperature.
PARTY WALL:                                                          A common wall which extends from its footing below grade to the underside of the
                                                                     roof and divides buildings.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:                                            A special use of a parcel of land as a unified development planned as an integral
                                                                     unit consisting of one or more structures and uses.
REFUSE COLLECTION AREA:                                              Any land where refuse is stored in an approved container (such as a garbage can
                                                                     or dumpster) until removed by a refuse disposal service.
                                                                     A building or group of buildings in which are located facilities for scientific
RESEARCH LABORATORY:                                                 research, investigation, testing, or experimentation, but not facilities for the
                                                                     manufacture or sale of products, except as incidental to the main purpose of the
                                                                     laboratory.
                                                                     A chart which is described in the U.S. bureau of mines information circular 8333
RINGELMANN CHART:                                                    and on which are illustrated graduated shades of gray for use in estimating the
                                                                     light obscuring capacity of smoke.
RINGELMANN NUMBER:                                                   The number of the area on the Ringelmann chart that coincides most nearly with
                                                                     the light obscuring capacity of smoke.
ROOMING HOUSE:                                                       See definition of Lodging House.
                                                                     The minimum horizontal distance between a street line and the nearest wall of a
SETBACK:                                                             building, structural element, a structure, or operation of a use facing such
                                                                     street line.
                                                                     When forty percent (40%) or more of the lots fronting on one side of a street
                                                                     within a block are improved, the average of these existing setbacks of such
SETBACK, ESTABLISHED:                                                improved lots shall be the "established setback" for determining the depth of
                                                                     required front yards for the remainder of the lots along such frontage, as
                                                                     regulated in this comprehensive amendment.
                                                                     Any object, device, display, or structure or part thereof which is used to
                                                                     advertise, identify, display, direct, or attract attention to an object, person,
                                                                     institution, organization, business, product, service, event, or location by any
                                                                     means including words, letters, figures, designs, symbols, fixtures, colors,
                                                                     motion illumination, projected images, or every projecting signs. "Sign"
SIGN:                                                                includes, but is not limited to, every projecting sign, wall sign, painted sign,
                                                                     roof sign, billboard, posterboard, freestanding sign, ground sign, pole sign,
                                                                     window sign, vehicle sign, awning, canopy, marquee, changeable copy sign,
                                                                     illuminated sign, flashing sign, animated sign, temporary sign, portable sign,
                                                                     banners, streamers, or any other attention getting device, or other display,
                                                                     whether affixed to a building or separate from any building.
   Animated Sign:                                                 Any sign or part of a sign which changes physical position by any movement or
                                                                     rotation.
                                                                     A wall or projecting sign attached to the roof or wall of an arcade and totally
   Arcade Sign:                                                   within the outside limits of the structural surfaces which are delineating the
                                                                     arcade.
   Building Sign:                                                 A sign attached to and supported by the exterior of any part of a building except
                                                                     the roof.
                                                                     A sign whereon provision is made for letters or characters to be placed in or
   Changeable Copy Sign:                                          upon the surface area either manually or electronically to provide a message or
                                                                     picture which is not permanent in nature.
   Contractor Sign:                                               One which names the contractor engaged in the construction on the property where
                                                                     the sign is located.
   Development Identification Sign:                               One which identifies a project under construction.
   Exterior Rate Sign:                                            Any sign upon which is designated or written out in words, numbers or figures,
                                                                     rates, prices or any combination thereof, of products, goods or services.
                                                                     A piece of cloth containing the symbols or crest of a nation, any organization of
   Flag:                                                          nations, states and cities, or a fraternal, religious or civic organization,
                                                                     containing no advertising material or message.
                                                                     Any directly or indirectly illuminated sign, either stationary or animated, which
   Flashing Sign:                                                 exhibits changing natural or artificial light or color effects by any means
                                                                     whatsoever.
                                                                     A sign completely or principally supported by posts or other supports independent
   Freestanding Sign:                                             of any building or other structure and anchored in or upon the ground, including
                                                                     ground signs and pole signs.
   Ground Signs:                                                  See definition of Freestanding Sign.
   Holiday Decoration:                                            A sign in the nature of a decoration, clearly incidental and customary and
                                                                     commonly associated with any national, local or religious holiday.
   Illuminated Sign, External:                                    A sign illuminated by a source of light which is cast upon the surface or face of
                                                                     the sign to illuminate by reflection only.
                                                                     A sign, all or any part of which is made of incandescent or other types of lamps;
                                                                     or a sign with painted, flush, or raised letters lighted by an electric lamp or
   Illuminated Sign, Internal:                                    lamps attached thereto; or a sign having a border of incandescent or fluorescent
                                                                     lamps thereto attached and reflecting light thereon; or a transparent sign,
                                                                     whether lighted by electricity or other illuminant.
                                                                     One directing and guiding automotive or pedestrian traffic or parking on private
   Information Sign:                                              property, but bearing no advertising matter, including a sign identifying
                                                                     restrooms, public telephones, walkways, and similar features or facilities.
                                                                     A nonilluminated bulletin board not over twenty (20) square feet in area for a
   Institutional Sign:                                            public, charitable, or religious institution and located on the premises of said
                                                                     institution.
                                                                     One located in the interior of any building, or within an enclosed lobby or court
   Interior Sign:                                                 of any building or group of buildings, which sign is designed and located to be
                                                                     viewed exclusively by patrons of such use or uses.
                                                                     A "memorial sign" or tablet is one bearing the name of a building and date of
   Memorial Sign:                                                 erection, when cut into any masonry surface or inlaid so as to be part of the
                                                                     building or when constructed of bronze or other noncombustible material.
   Moving Sign:                                                   Any sign which rotates or moves or gives the visual impression of rotation or
                                                                     movement.
   Nameplate:                                                     A sign bearing only the name of the building and/or address of the premises on
                                                                     which it is located.
   No Trespassing Sign:                                           This sign or other such sign is one which regulates the use of a property, such
                                                                     as "no hunting" or "no fishing" signs, etc.
                                                                     A sign which directs attention to a use, business, commodity, service, or
   Off-Premise Sign:                                              activity not conducted, sold, or offered upon the premises where the sign is
                                                                     located. This term also includes those signs commonly known as advertising signs,
                                                                     billboards, or posterpanels.
                                                                     A sign which relates solely to a use, business or profession conducted, or to a
   On-Premises Sign:                                              principal commodity, product, service or entertainment sold, provided, or offered
                                                                     upon the premises where the sign is located.
   Painted Wall Sign:                                             A sign which is painted upon appurtenances to said building.
   Pole Sign:                                                     See definition of Freestanding Sign.
   Political Campaign Sign:                                       A sign or poster announcing candidates seeking public political office and/or
                                                                     political and public issues contained on a ballot, and date pertinent thereto.
                                                                     Any sign that is not permanently affixed to a structure or the ground, and
                                                                     designed to be moved from place to place, including, but not limited to, signs
   Portable Sign:                                                 attached to wood or metal frames designed to be self-supporting and movable;
                                                                     paper, cardboard, or canvas signs wrapped around supporting poles; and signs
                                                                     commonly trailer- mounted and designed to be moved from place to place.
                                                                     A "projecting sign" is a sign supported by a building (or other structure) which
                                                                     projects over any street, sidewalk, alley (or any public or easement) more than
   Projecting Sign:                                               twelve (12") inches from the face of the building, structure or supporting wall
                                                                     including any such sign attached to the wall of a building in which the face of
                                                                     the sign in not parallel to such wall.
                                                                     A legal notice or an identification, information, or direction sign erected or
   Public Sign:                                                   required by governmental body or authorized for a public purpose by any law,
                                                                     statute, or ordinance.
                                                                     A sign conveying information to the general public, including but not limited to
                                                                     signs that announce or provide information about community events, special
   Public Information Sign:                                       events, and which give the time and temperature. At least fifty percent (50%) of
                                                                     the display time between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
                                                                     must be devoted to public information messages.
                                                                     Any sign of public utility companies indicating danger, or which serves as an aid
   Public Utility Sign:                                           to public safety, or which shows the location of underground facilities or of
                                                                     public telephones.
                                                                     A "for sale", "for rent", or "sold" sign which advertises the sale or rental of
   Real Estate Sign:                                              the real estate upon which said sign is located or which indicates that the
                                                                     property has not been sold.
   Residential Development Sign:                                  A permanent sign at major entrances designed to identify a residential
                                                                     subdivision or planned unit development and containing no commercial advertising.
   Roof Sign:                                                     A sign erected, constructed, or maintained in whole or in part upon or over the
                                                                     roof of a building or structure.
                                                                     One which advertises any sale of used goods or rummage by an individual, to be
   Rummage Sale Or Garage Sale Sign:                              held at his private garage, or by a religious or charitable or other organization
                                                                     at a designated location.
   Sign Structure:                                                A structure constructed for the purpose of displaying a sign.
                                                                     The total exposed surface devoted to the street graphic's message, including all
                                                                     ornamentation, embellishment, and symbols, but excluding the supporting structure
                                                                     which does not form part of the sign proper or of the display. The area of a sign
                                                                     shall be computed by the customary applicable mathematical formula for the shape
                                                                     of the sign face, including copy, background, and any framed or boxed display. In
                                                                     the case of irregularly shaped signs, or signs made up of separate letters or
   Surface Area Of Sign:                                          characters connecting in meaning, the area shall be determined by computing the
                                                                     area lying within straight lines connecting the extreme projections, corners, or
                                                                     edges of the letters, characters, symbols, and other figures composing the sign
                                                                     taken as a whole. Where a sign has two (2) or more display faces of unequal
                                                                     dimensions, the area of the largest face shall determine the sign surface area.
                                                                     In the case of a ground graphic designed with more than one exterior surface
                                                                     containing items of information, the area shall be computed as including only the
                                                                     maximum single display surface which is visible from any one ground position.
                                                                     Any sign, banner, pennant, valance or other advertising display constructed of
   Temporary Sign:                                                cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard or other light materials, with
                                                                     or without frames, and portable signs, as otherwise defined herein, for use for a
                                                                     period not to exceed thirty (30) days.
   Time And/Or Temperature Sign:                                  See definition of Public Information Sign.
   Under-Marquee Sign:                                            Any sign suspended beneath a canopy or marquee intended generally to attract
                                                                     pedestrian traffic.
                                                                     Any sign attached to or painted on a motor vehicle which advertises a business,
   Vehicle Sign:                                                  product, or service not directly connected with the vehicle upon which such a
                                                                     sign is placed; or any vehicle upon which a message is written which is parked or
                                                                     placed so that its sole function is that of a sign.
                                                                     A sign mounted, attached to, or painted on the exterior wall of a building or
   Wall Sign:                                                     structure in a plane parallel to that of the supporting wall. A wall sign may not
                                                                     project more than twelve inches (12") from the plane of the structure to which it
                                                                     is attached.
   Window Display:                                                A showing of merchandise, pictures, or models of products or services in a
                                                                     window.
                                                                     A permanent sign visible from the exterior of a building or structure which is
                                                                     painted on a window; depicted upon a card, paper, or other material; placed on,
   Window Sign:                                                   taped on or hung immediately behind the window; or displayed from a window for
                                                                     the specific purpose of identifying the proprietor or name of a business to the
                                                                     passerby. A window sign shall not be construed to be a window promotional sign.
                                                                     A temporary sign visible from the exterior of a building or structure, which is
                                                                     painted on a window; depicted upon a card, paper or other material; or placed on,
   Window Sign, Promotional:                                      taped on or hung immediately behind the window; or displayed from a window for
                                                                     the specific purpose of attracting the attention of the passerby to a sale or to
                                                                     promotional items, or other products or services.
SMOKE:                                                               The visible discharge from a chimney, stack, vent, exhaust, or combustion process
                                                                     which is made up of particulate matter.
                                                                     The number obtained by multiplying the smoke density in Ringelmann numbers by the
                                                                     time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of this calculation, Ringelmann
                                                                     density reading is made at least once every minute during the period of
SMOKE UNITS, NUMBER OF:                                              observation; each reading is then multiplied by the time in minutes during which
                                                                     it is observed; the various products are then added together to give the total
                                                                     number of smoke units observed during the total period under observation. Steam
                                                                     or water vapor is not considered smoke.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS:                                                The following definitions relate to solar energy systems:
                                                                     An SES that has not been maintained in or repaired to operating condition within
   Abandoned SES:                                                 the applicable timeframe set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of this Code, or
                                                                     for which the owner has not made all submissions required pursuant to chapter 5,
                                                                     article XVIII of this Code.
   Height:                                                        The vertical distance measured from grade to the highest point of a structure.
   Operable Condition:                                            The condition of being capable of operating at full capacity while meeting all
                                                                     applicable requirements set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of this Code.
   Photovoltaic Cell:                                             A semiconductor device that converts solar energy directly into electricity.
   Principal Structure Or Building:                               A structure that contains a principal use, as contrasted to an accessory
                                                                     structure or an incidental use of property.
   Principal Use:                                                 The main use of land or buildings, as distinguished from subordinate or accessory
                                                                     uses. A "principal use" may be either a permitted use or a special use.
                                                                     A professionally manufactured device structure or part of a device or structure
   Solar Collector:                                               for which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into thermal,
                                                                     mechanical, or electrical energy.
                                                                     Any part of a solar collector that absorbs solar energy for use in the
   Solar Collector Surfaces:                                      collector's energy transformation process. A solar collector surface does not
                                                                     include frames, supports and mounting hardware.
   Solar Energy System (SES):                                     An active or passive system for which the primary purpose is to convert solar
                                                                     energy into thermal, mechanical, or electrical energy for storage and use.
                                                                     An SES that is accessory to a principal use and that is an integral part of a
                                                                     principal or accessory building, rather than a separate mechanical device, and
   Solar Energy System, Building Integrated (SES-BI):             that replaces or substitutes for an architectural or structural part of the
                                                                     building. SES-BI include, but are not limited to, photovoltaic or hot water
                                                                     systems that are contained within roofing materials, skylights, shading devices,
                                                                     and similar architectural components.
                                                                     An SES that is accessory to a principal use and professionally mounted on the
   Solar Energy System - Building-Mounted (SES- BM):              roof of a principal building, or on an accessory structure if allowed by the
                                                                     Village's Building Code. An SES-BM can be flush mounted or non-flush mounted.
                                                                     An SES-BM is deemed to be flush mounted when it is mounted to a finished roof
   Solar Energy System, Building-Mounted - Flush Mounted:         surface where the solar collector, once installed, projects no further than six
                                                                     inches (6") in height beyond the roof surface.
                                                                     An SES-BM is deemed to be non-flush mounted when it is mounted to a finished roof
   Solar Energy System, Building-Mounted - Non-Flush Mounted:     surface where the solar collector, once installed, projects more than six inches
                                                                     (6") in height beyond the roof surface.
   Solar Energy System - Ground Mounted Solar Energy System (SES- A free-standing SES that is accessory to a principal use and is placed on or
GM):                                                                 mounted to the ground.
SOUND LEVEL METER:                                                   An instrument standardized by the U.S.A. Standards Institute for measurement of
                                                                     intensity of sound.
                                                                     A separately defined area or portion of the Village in which a creative approach
                                                                     to community graphics is allowed, such that signage in the area may not conform
SPECIAL GRAPHICS AREA:                                               to all the conditions set forth in article XII, "Community Graphics", of this
                                                                     chapter, but where the design features, dimensions, and locations of the
                                                                     community graphics proposed for the area are specified in plans and drawings
                                                                     reviewed and to be approved in accordance with section 6-12-14 of this chapter.
                                                                     A use which, because of its unique characteristics, cannot be properly classified
                                                                     as a permitted use in any particular district or districts. After due
                                                                     consideration, in each case by the Board of Trustees after receiving the report
SPECIAL USE:                                                         and recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission relative to the impact
                                                                     of such use upon neighboring land, and of the public need for the particular use
                                                                     at the particular location, such "special use" may or may not be granted by the
                                                                     Board of Trustees.
                                                                     Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region, buttocks,
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS:                                          and female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; human
                                                                     male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if opaquely covered.
                                                                     Simulated or actual: a) showing of human genitals in a state of sexual
                                                                     stimulation or arousal, b) acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy,
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES:                                         bestiality, necrophilia, sadomasochistic abuse, fellatio or cunnilingus, c)
                                                                     fondling or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock or female
                                                                     breasts.
                                                                     That portion of a building, other than a cellar, included between the surface of
STORY:                                                               any floor and the surface of the floor next above it or, if there be no floor
                                                                     above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
                                                                     A partial story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall plates of which on
                                                                     at least two (2) opposite exterior walls are not more than three feet (3') above
STORY, HALF:                                                         the floor of such story, except that any partial story used for residence
                                                                     purposes, other than for a janitor or caretaker or his family, or by a family
                                                                     occupying the floor immediately below it, shall be deemed a full story.
                                                                     Any right-of-way containing a roadway which affords the primary means of
                                                                     vehicular access to abutting properties. When such right-of-way is not an
STREET:                                                              existing or dedicated public "street", it shall be not less than forty feet (40')
                                                                     in width, unless herein otherwise regulated. An alley shall not be considered a
                                                                     street.
STREET LINE:                                                         The street right-of-way line abutting a property line of a lot.
                                                                     Any change in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls,
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION:                                               columns, beams, or girders, or any substantial change in the roof or in the
                                                                     exterior walls, excepting such repair or replacement as may be required for the
                                                                     safety of the building.
                                                                     Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more or less permanent
STRUCTURE:                                                           location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on
                                                                     the ground, including, but without limiting, the generality of the foregoing,
                                                                     signs, backstops for tennis courts, and pergolas.
                                                                     Any business operation where tattooing is performed. For purposes of this
                                                                     definition, "tattooing" means making a permanent mark on the skin of a live human
                                                                     being by puncturing the skin and inserting indelible colors, and includes
                                                                     imparting permanent makeup on the skin, such as permanent lip coloring or
TATTOO PARLOR:                                                       permanent eyeliner. Tattooing does not include: a) the practice of electrology
                                                                     (as defined in the Illinois Electrology Licensing Act), b) the practice of
                                                                     acupuncture (as defined in the Illinois Acupuncture Act), and c) the use, by a
                                                                     physician licensed to practice medicine in all of its branches, of colors, dyes,
                                                                     or pigments for the purpose of obscuring scar tissue or imparting color to the
                                                                     skin for cosmetic, medical or figurative purposes.
TOXIC MATTER OR MATERIAL:                                         Those materials which are capable of causing injury to living organisms by
                                                                     chemical means.
                                                                     Any vehicle, house car, camp car, or any portable or mobile vehicle on wheels,
TRAILER:                                                          skids, or rollers or blocks, either self-propelled or propelled by any other
                                                                     means, which is used for living, sleeping, or commercial purposes.
                                                                     The purpose or activity for which the land, or building thereon, is designed,
USE:                                                              arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, and shall
                                                                     include any manner of performance of such activity with respect to the
                                                                     performance standards of this comprehensive amendment.
USE, ACCESSORY:                                                      Any accessory use is one which is incidental to the dominant use of the premises.
                                                                     Any use which may be lawfully established in a particular district or districts,
USE, PERMITTED:                                                   provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations and performance
                                                                     standards, if any, of such district.
USE, PRINCIPAL:                                                   The dominant use of land or buildings as distinguished from a subordinate or
                                                                     accessory use.
YARD:                                                                An open area on a lot which is unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky,
                                                                     except as otherwise provided in this comprehensive amendment.
YARD, FRONT:                                                         A yard which is bounded by the side lot lines, front lot line and front yard
                                                                     line.
                                                                     A line in a lot that is parallel to the lot line along which the applicable yard
                                                                     extends and which is not nearer to such lot line at any point than the required
YARD LINE:                                                           depth or width of the applicable yard. A building, structure or other obstruction
                                                                     shall not encroach into the area between the "yard line" and such adjacent lot
                                                                     line, except for such permitted obstructions in yards as are set forth in this
                                                                     comprehensive amendment.
YARD, REAR:                                                          A yard which is bounded by side lot lines, rear lot line, and the rear yard line.
                                                                     A yard which is bounded by the rear yard line, front yard line, side yard lines
                                                                     and side lot lines. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 02-10, 5-16-2002; Ord. 03-10, 6-19-
                                                                     2003; Ord. 04-22, 7-15-2004; Ord. 08-27, 6-12-2008; Ord. 08-33, 9-4-2008; Ord.
YARD, SIDE:                                                          10-24, 10-21-2010; Ord. 11-21, 9-1-2011; Ord. 14-20, 5-1-2014; Ord. 14-22, 5-1-
                                                                     2014; Ord. 14-23, 5-1-2014; Ord. 16-15, 6-2-2016; Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018; Ord. 19-
                                                                     20, 8-22-2019; Ord. 20-09, 2-6-2020; Ord. 20-23, 6-18-2020; Ord. 21-15, 4-15-
                                                                     2021; Ord. 22-11, 6-2-2022; Ord. 22-24, 9-15-2022; Ord. 22-29, 10-20-2022; Ord.
                                                                     23-09, 9-7-2023; Ord. 23-19, 10-5-2023)
 
ARTICLE III
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Interpretation
6-3-2: Buildings Per Lot
6-3-3: Allowable Use Of Land Or Buildings
6-3-4: Prohibited Use Of Land Or Buildings
6-3-5: Conformance With Use Requirements
6-3-6: Conformance With Bulk Provisions
6-3-7: Accessory Buildings And Uses
6-3-8: Special Uses
6-3-9: Yards, Generally
6-3-10: Permitted Obstructions, Yards
6-3-11: Floodplain Area
6-3-12: Reimbursement Of Fees
6-3-13: Performance Standards
6-3-14: Refuse Collection Areas
6-3-15: Collection Containers For Secondhand Items
6-3-16: Home Occupations
6-3-17: Outdoor Lighting
6-3-1: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, morals, and welfare.
   B.   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter upon the:
1) use of land or buildings, 2) the bulk of buildings, 3) floor area
requirements, 4) lot area requirements, and 5) yard requirements, are either
more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any
other provision of this chapter or of any other law, ordinance, resolution,
rule, or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or
which impose higher standards or requirements shall govern.
   C.   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant, or
other private agreement, provided that where the regulations of this chapter
are more restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such
easements, covenants, or other private agreements, the requirements of this
chapter shall govern.
   D.   No building, structure, or use, not lawfully existing at the time of
the adoption of this chapter, shall become or be made lawful solely by reason
of the adoption of this chapter; and to the extent that, and in any manner that
said unlawful building, structure or use is in conflict with the requirements
of this chapter, said building, structure, or use remains unlawful hereunder.
(1985 Code)
6-3-2: BUILDINGS PER LOT:
   A.   In residence districts, every dwelling or multiple-family building
hereinafter erected or structurally altered shall be located on a lot, and
there shall not be more than one principal building on one lot.
   B.   In single-family districts, every dwelling hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be located on a lot, and there shall not be more
than one principal building on one lot. (1985 Code)
6-3-3: ALLOWABLE USE OF LAND OR BUILDINGS:
The following uses of land or buildings are allocated in the districts
indicated hereinafter in articles VIII, IX, and X of this chapter under the
conditions specified in this chapter.
   A.   Uses lawfully established on the effective date of this chapter.
   B.   Permitted uses as designated in articles V, VI, VII, VIII, and IX of
this chapter.
   C.   Special uses as designated at articles V, VI, VII, VIII, and IX of this
chapter. (1985 Code)
6-3-4: PROHIBITED USE OF LAND OR BUILDINGS:
   A.   No building or tract of land shall be devoted to any use other than one
which is specified as a permitted or special use in articles VI, VII, VIII, IX,
and X of this chapter in the zoning district in which such building or land is
located.
   B.   However, where a building permit for a building or structure has been
issued in accordance with law prior to the effective date of this Chapter, and
where construction has been begun within six (6) months of such effective date
and diligently prosecuted to completion, said building or structure may be
completed in accordance with approved plans on the basis of which the building
permit was issued; and further, may, upon completion, be occupied under a
certificate of occupancy by the use originally designated, subject to the
provisions of this Article. (1985 Code)
6-3-5: CONFORMANCE WITH USE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No building or premises shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no
building or structure, or part thereof, shall be erected, raised, moved,
reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or altered, except in conformity with the
regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
   B.   In residence districts a lot which was of record as of the effective
date of this Chapter, even though not meeting the requirements of this Chapter
as to area and width, may be used for single-family residence purposes,
provided such use conforms with all other regulations of the district in which
it is located. (1985 Code)
6-3-6: CONFORMANCE WITH BULK PROVISIONS:
   A.   All new buildings shall conform to the bulk regulations established
herein for the district in which each building is located.
   B.   No existing building shall be enlarged, reconstructed, structurally
altered, converted or relocated in such a manner as to conflict or further
conflict with the bulk regulations of this Chapter for the district in which
such building shall be located. (1985 Code)
6-3-7: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES:
   A.   Accessory Uses:
      1.   Shall be compatible with the principal use;
      2.   Shall not be established prior to the establishment of the principal
use; and
      3.   Shall not include the keeping of propagation of poultry or
livestock, whether or not for profit, except in the F-1 Farming District, or
except as in accordance with Article 6-20 of this Chapter.
   B.   Accessory Buildings, including accessory sheds, toolrooms, and other
accessory buildings:
      1.   Shall not encroach upon the front half of a side yard of a corner
lot which is adjacent to the street, nor upon that side yard of a reversed
corner lot which is adjacent to the street, nor upon the rear yard of a through
lot;
      2.   Shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height, unless otherwise
permitted as an accessory use to a business, manufacturing or authorized
special use; and (1985 Code)
      3.   Unless structurally a part of a principal building on the same lot,
and in conformance with the requirements established for accessory buildings
for special uses:
         a.   In All Residence Districts And Estate Districts:
            (1)   Shall not be erected, altered at, or moved to a location
within five feet (5') of the nearest wall of the principal building located on
the same lot; and
            (2)   Shall be erected only in a rear yard or in the rear half of
any side yard; and
            (3)   Shall be not less than five feet (5') from any property line;
and
            (4)   Shall be not less than ten feet (10') from any alley, and
            (5)   Shall not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the area
of said yard.
         b.   In All Other Districts:
            (1)   Shall not be erected, altered at, or moved to a location
within ten feet (10') of the nearest wall of the principal building; and
            (2)   Shall not be erected, altered at, or moved to a location
within the required area for any front or side yard of the lot as established
for said district.
      4.   Shall be constructed or erected in the same style, construction
technique, and with materials substantially similar to those of the principal
use; provided, in the case of an accessory shed, toolroom or similar accessory
structure which is placed in line with any privacy or site-obscuring fence, the
face of such structure in line with such fence may be finished with materials
similar to such fence.
   C.   Satellite Dish Antennas: Satellite dish antennas with a diameter of
twelve feet (12') or less shall be permitted as an accessory use in residential
and business, industrial and office zoning districts subject to the following
standards:
      1.   Residential: Satellite dish antennas located in a residential zoning
district shall be permitted only in the rear yard, and when so located and
designed as to minimize the visual impact from public streets and surrounding
properties.
         a.   Any such satellite dish shall be a freestanding structure.
         b.   The outer perimeter of any such satellite dish shall be located
not less than five feet (5') from any and all side and rear lot lines.
         c.   The base of any such satellite dish shall be constructed on
concrete piers.
         d.   Any and all electric, transmission, or accessory cable or cables
connecting the satellite dish antenna to the principal structure, shall be
underground if the concrete pad for such antenna is five feet (5') or greater
from the principal structure.
         e.   There shall not be allowed more than one satellite dish antenna
for each parcel of property in the Village.
         f.   There shall be no writing or graphics on any satellite dish
antenna, except that the manufacturer of such antenna may display his name
thereon.
      2.   Business, Industrial And Office: Satellite dish antennas with a
diameter of twelve feet (12') or less shall be permitted as an accessory use in
business, industrial and office zoning districts, subject to the following
standards:
         a.   If located on the ground, the installation of a satellite dish
antenna in a business, industrial or office zoning district shall be subject to
all of the terms of subsection C1 of this Section.
         b.   If installed on the roof of any building in a business,
industrial or office zoning district, the dead weight of the satellite dish
antenna, and any mounting accessories, shall not exceed the design weight of
the roof, and the top most portion of the satellite dish antenna shall not be
more than fifteen feet (15') above the highest portion of the roof.
         c.   In all cases, a satellite dish antenna installed in a business,
industrial or office zoning district shall be located so as to minimize the
visual impact from public streets and surrounding properties.
      3.   No satellite dish antenna shall be installed in the Village without
a permit having been first obtained therefor; such permit may be obtained by
application filed with the Village Clerk and payment of the appropriate fee
described below; said application for permit shall be approved by the Director
of Public Works.
         a.   For any satellite dish antenna installed in a residential zoning
district, the fee for a permit shall be ten dollars ($10.00).
         b.   For any satellite dish antenna installed in a business,
industrial or office zoning district, the fee for a permit shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 85-19, 6-20-1985; amd. Ord. 98-28, 8-20-1998; Ord. 20-
23, 6-18-2020; Ord. 22-12, 6-2-2022)
6-3-8: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   A classification of special uses is hereby established to provide for
the location of certain uses hereinafter specified in this Chapter, which are
deemed desirable for the public welfare within a given district, but which
might have an adverse effect upon nearby properties or upon the character and
future development of the district in which they are located, and including but
not limited to:
      1.   Public and quasi-public uses affected with the public interest;
      2.   Uses which may have a unique, special or unusual impact upon the use
or enjoyment of neighboring property; and
      3.   Planned developments.
   B.   The procedures governing application for and granting of special uses
are set forth in subsection 6-14-3H of this Chapter.
   C.   A use shall be considered a lawful special use which exists on the
effective date of this Chapter and is classified by this Chapter as a special
use, provided as follows:
      1.   Additions or alterations to existing buildings or land improvements
for expansion of lawful special uses may be made;
      2.   All such additions or alterations shall be made within the area of
the lot on which said lawful special use is located;
      3.   All such additions or alterations shall be subject to yard, floor
area ratio, and building height requirements established by this chapter for
permitted uses in the districts in which such lawful special uses are located.
(1985 Code)
6-3-9: YARDS, GENERALLY:
   A.   Minimum Yard Space:
      1.   No lot shall be reduced in area so that the yards or other open
space become less than required by this chapter.
      2.   The minimum yard space required for one structure shall not again be
considered as yard space for another adjoining structure.
   B.   Front Yards:
      1.   Front yards shall be established according to the requirements set
forth for each zoning district described in this chapter, with the following
exceptions:
         a.   On streets where a front yard setback has been maintained for
buildings existing on lots or tracts having a frontage of fifty percent (50%)
or more of the total frontage on one side of that portion of any street lying
between two (2) intersecting streets, there shall be maintained a front yard
setback of not less than the average setback of the aforementioned existing
buildings.
         b.   On a vacant, through or corner lot, either of the lot lines
abutting in a street right of way line may be established as its front lot line
except as follows:
            (1)   Where two (2) or more through lots are contiguous and a front
lot line has been duly established, the same street lot line shall thereafter
be deemed to be the front lot line of all such contiguous lots.
         c.   On a through lot, a front yard shall be provided along any lot
line abutting a street. (1985 Code)
6-3-10: PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS, YARDS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following shall not be considered as
obstructions when located in the yards indicated, and shall be allowed as
follows:
   A.   In Any Yards:
      1.   Chimneys, overhanging roof eaves, bay windows, open terraces,
marquees, and awnings adjoining the principal building, if they do not exceed
ten percent (10%) of the depth of the yard;
      2.   Ornamental light standards and flagpoles; and (1985 Code)
      3.   Trees and shrubs; except that on corner lots, trees and shrubs
higher than thirty inches (30") above the centerline grade of the intersecting
streets, if located in that portion of a required front or side yard situated
within twenty feet (20') of the lot corner formed by the intersection of any
two (2) street lines shall be considered to be an obstruction.
   B.   In Side Yards:
      1.   Open, accessory off street parking spaces, subject to and as
provided in Section
6-11-2.H. of this code.
      2.   Fences; except that on corner lots, fences higher than thirty inches
(30") above the centerline grade of the intersecting streets, if located in
that portion of a required front or side yard situated within twenty feet (20')
of the lot corner formed by the intersection of any two (2) street lines shall
be considered to be an obstruction.
      3.   Accessory buildings, including sheds, toolrooms, and other similar
accessory buildings, but only if located in the rear half of any side yard.
      4.   Private electric vehicle charging stations (EVCS) provided they are
located no closer than five feet (5') to any lot line.
   C.   In Rear Yards:
      1.   Private garages, if attached or structurally a part of the principal
building;
      2.   Private garages, detached;
      3.   Open accessory off street parking spaces;
      4.   Accessory sheds, toolrooms, or other similar accessory buildings;
      5.   Private swimming pools in accordance with regulations of this
chapter and other applicable ordinances of the village of Hampshire;
      6.   Recreational and laundry drying equipment;
      7.   Arbors and trellises;
      8.   Open terraces or decks and specifically not including permanently
roofed over terraces or decks; provided, however, said open terrace or deck
shall in no case occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the required rear
yard area, and shall in no case be constructed within ten feet (10') of any lot
line;
      9.   Fences; except that on corner lots, fences higher than thirty inches
(30") above the centerline grade of the intersecting streets, if located in
that portion of a required front or side yard situated within twenty feet (20')
of the lot corner formed by the intersection of any two (2) street lines shall
be considered to be an obstruction.
      10.   Private electric vehicle charging stations (EVCS) provided they are
located no closer than five feet (5') to any lot line.
   D.   In Front Yards: Any item other than those described in subsection A of
this section shall be considered obstructions and shall not be permitted; and
      1.   No fences shall be permitted in any front yard.
      2.   Accessory buildings, including sheds, toolrooms, and other similar
accessory buildings, shall be subject to section B.3. above.
      3.   Open, accessory off-street parking spaces and spaces for electric
vehicle charging stations (EVCS) shall be permitted in a front yard in certain
districts, subject to and as provided in Section
6-11-2 H. of this code. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 92-2, 6-18-1992; Ord. 09-26, 8-6-
2009; Ord. 20-23, 6-18-2020; Ord. 21-19, 6-3-2021; Ord. 23-09, 9-7-2023)
6-3-11: FLOODPLAIN AREA:
In any floodplain area, no building or structure shall be erected with an
elevation of a habitable floor, including a basement, lower than three feet
(3') above the flood crest elevation established by the engineer of the village
on the effective date of this chapter or as may subsequently be established.
(1985 Code)
6-3-12: REIMBURSEMENT OF FEES:
All fees incurred by the village for engineering, legal and/or consultant
services rendered in regard to a request for zoning, rezoning, annexation,
variation, special use, text or map amendment, or other matters related to this
chapter shall be billed to and paid by the person or persons who make the
petition, proposal or other inquiry as to which the services are rendered.
(Ord. 01-30, 9-20-2001)
6-3-13: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   The following performance standards are established to protect the
public health, safety, comfort, convenience and the general welfare of the
village and to promote a more desirable environment in which to live and work
within the village.
   B.   The performance standards set forth in this section shall apply to all
the zoning districts in the village.
   C.   The performance standards in the village shall be as follows:
      1.   Noise: The state of Illinois environmental protection agency noise
pollution regulations as adopted by the Illinois pollution control board on
August 10, 1973, and published by the Illinois environmental protection agency,
and all amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this chapter.
      2.   Air Pollution: The state of Illinois environmental protection agency
air pollution regulations as adopted by the Illinois pollution control board on
April 14, 1972, and published by the Illinois environmental protection agency,
and all amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this chapter.
      3.   Water Pollution: The state of Illinois environmental protection
agency water pollution regulations, as adopted by the Illinois pollution
control board on March 7, 1972, and published by the Illinois environmental
protection agency, and all amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this chapter.
      4.   Open Burning: The state of Illinois environmental protection agency
open burning regulations as adopted by the Illinois pollution control board on
September 2, 1971, and published by the Illinois environmental protection
agency, and all amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this chapter.
      5.   Fire: In accordances with the fire regulations established by the
International Code Council Fire Prevention Code, 2006 edition, and any
amendments to said edition adopted by the Village for purposes of Chapter 5:
Building Regulations.
   D.   Any person who in any way violates the performance standards described
in this section shall be subject to the penalties otherwise described in
section
6-13-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 98-26, 8-6-1998; amd. Ord. 20-22, 6-18-2020)
6-3-14: REFUSE COLLECTION AREAS:
   A.   Refuse collection areas in any R-3 or R-4 residence district, any
business district, and any industrial district in the Village, shall be subject
to the following regulations:
      1.   Any refuse collection area shall be located behind the front
building line of the principal structure on the premises; and no refuse
collection area shall be located within any required setback area on the
premises; and
      2.   Any refuse collection area shall be screened from view from both any
adjoining property and all public rights-of-way by a solid fence or wall a
minimum height of six (6) linear feet.
      3.   Any refuse collection area shall be located so as not to interfere
with pedestrian traffic.
      4.   These regulations shall not apply to any refuse collection area
established prior to the effective date of this section; provided, however,
upon any re-development, re-construction, or new development of any property
within the Village (except within the downtown area described below) wherein a
refuse collection area shall be proposed or required, such refuse collection
area shall be subject to these regulations.
      5.   These regulations shall not apply to any territory within the
downtown area in the Village, being that property bounded by the following:
Hampshire Creek on the north; Maple Street (extended) on the East; Jackson
Street on the South; and Park Street - East Street on the West. (Ord. 04-22, 7-
15-2004)
6-3-15: COLLECTION CONTAINERS FOR SECONDHAND ITEMS:
   A.   Regulations: Collection containers for secondhand items shall be
subject to the following regulations:
      1.   No articles of secondhand apparel, clothing, or footwear, and no
other items of any kind, shall be allowed to be placed or allowed to remain
anywhere outside the container.
      2.   No flammable or hazardous materials shall be placed in or outside,
or within any enclosure surrounding the container.
      3.   The collection container shall not be located within any required
yard on the property where it is situated.
      4.   The collection container must be enclosed by a fence on three (3)
sides.
      5.   Any sign placed on the fence surrounding the collection container
shall be deemed to be a "public information sign" as otherwise allowed pursuant
to subsection 6-12-6B of this chapter, provided, such sign shall not exceed one
square foot in size.
      6.   No such collection box shall be larger than fifty four (54) cubic
feet in size.
   B.   Permit Application:
      1.   Prior to placing a secondhand article collection container on any
property within the village, a permit must be obtained allowing such container.
      2.   The application for a permit for a collection container for
secondhand items must include the following information:
         a.   A site plan showing the location of the proposed secondhand
article collection container on the property.
         b.   Phone number and mailing address of the owner of the real
property on which the secondhand article collection container will be placed.
         c.   Phone number and mailing address of the owner of the secondhand
article collection container.
         d.   The application for the permit for a secondhand article
collection container must be signed by the owner of the real property on which
the secondhand article collection container will be placed as well as the owner
of the container.
         e.   The application fee.
      3.   The fee for a permit for a secondhand article collection container
shall be established from time to time by the board of trustees; the fee shall
be due with the application for permit and is nonrefundable.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who is found to have violated the regulations of
this section shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 14-23,
5-1-2014)
6-3-16: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Authorization: Subject to the limitations of this Section, any home
occupation that is incidental to the principal use of a building as a dwelling
shall be permitted in any dwelling unit.
   B.   Definition: A home occupation is a business, profession, occupation, or
trade that:
      1.   Is conducted for gain or support by a full-time occupant of a
dwelling unit; and
      2.   Is incidental to the use of such dwelling unit for residential
purposes; and
      3.   Does not change the residential character of such dwelling unit.
   C.   Use Limitations:
      1.   The use for the home occupation must be clearly incidental to the
principal use of the of the building as a dwelling.
      2.   No activity, structure or anything exterior to any structure shall
indicate that the structure is being used for any non-residential purpose, and
there shall be no visible evidence of conduct of such home occupation and no
change in the outside appearance of the premises, except a sign as may be
permitted by village regulations.
      3.   Every home occupation shall be conducted wholly within a principal
dwelling unit, unless otherwise approved as a special use; provided, the
limitation of this sub-section shall not apply to a day care home operated as a
home occupation.
      4.   No stock-in-trade shall be displayed or sold upon the premises;
stock-in-trade may be inventoried inside the premises.
      5.   No outdoor storage shall be allowed in connection with any home
occupation.
      6.   No refuse in excess of the amount allowable for regular residential
pick-up shall be generated by any home occupation.
      7.   No mechanical or electrical equipment shall be installed or
maintained on the premises other than such as is customarily incidental to a
residence.
      8.   No mechanical or electrical equipment shall be operated on the
premises in such a way as to interfere with the use and enjoyment of
neighboring properties orto indicate that the structure is being used for a
non-residential purpose, or to place demands on public infrastructure that are
excessive when compared to a typical single-family residence.
      9.   No home occupation shall cause or create any nuisance, or cause or
create any substantial or undue adverse impact on any adjacent property or the
character of the area, or threaten the public health, safety or general
welfare, or be noxious, offensive, or hazardous, including but not limited to
any of the following:
         a.   The activity will not require more vehicle parking space than
exists on the residential drive or assigned parking spaces servicing the
dwelling unit.
         b.   The activity shall create no noise in excess of that of normal
daily activity for a residential area.
         c.   The activity will not result in the emission of odorous matter in
such quantities as to be readily detectable at any point along lot lines, or
exterior to party walls in multiple family areas.
         d.   The activity will not create aesthetic problems in the storing or
disposing of trash or materials.
         e.   The activity will not generate more vehicular or pedestrian
traffic than is typical of residences in the area.
      10.   No home occupation shall create any hazard that would or could
endanger the dwelling unit or its occupants or other structures or their
occupants by reason of additional fire, health, safety, or environmental
hazards, including but not limited to the presence of firearms, knives,
ammunition, explosives, or dangerous chemicals on the premises, other than
legally-owned personal property.
      11.   Every home occupation shall comply with all applicable federal,
State, and local laws and regulations, including, without limitation,
obtaining, maintaining, and complying with regulations applicable to any
required Federal, State, or local license or permit.
   D.   Vehicle Limitations:
      1.   Parking of trucks associated with a home occupation shall conform to
regulations concerning parking of commercial vehicles in residential areas as
delineated in Section
2-6-3 of the Village code and in accordance with any other ordinance of the
village.
      2.   Commercial vehicles used in connection with any home occupation
shall conform to regulations concerning parking of commercial vehicles in
residential areas as delineated in Section
2-6-3 of the Village Code and in accordance with any other ordinance of the
village.
   E.   Employee Limitations: The primary operator of every home occupation
shall be domiciled in the dwelling unit where such business is conducted.
   F.   Structural Limitations:
      1.   No alteration of any kind shall be made to the dwelling unit where a
home occupation is conducted that would change its residential character as a
dwelling unit, including the enlargement of public utility services beyond that
customarily required for residential use.
      2.   No separate entrance shall be provided in connection with the
conduct of any home occupation.
   G.   Operational Limitations:
      1.   Any home occupation involving the keeping or care of animals shall
be subject to animal control regulation in Article 2-11 of the Village Code.
Any kennel operation shall be subject to the definition and restrictions of a
"KENNEL" in Section
6-2-2 of the Village Code.
      2.   No routine attendance of patients, clients, subcontractors, or
employees associated with any home occupation shall be allowed at the premises
of the home occupation, except:
         a.   Attendance of children in numbers allowed by current state
regulations, but not more than twelve (12) in total, may be allowed at a day
care home operated as a home occupation,
         b.   The attendance of up to four (4) persons at any one time may be
allowed for the purpose of receiving private instruction in any subject or
skill, and
         c.   Attendance of up to two (2) clients at any one time may be
allowed for personal or advisory services.
      "Routine attendance" means that the conduct of the home occupation
requires non-domiciled persons to visit the premises of the home occupation as
part of the regular conduct of the occupation, without regard to the number,
frequency, or duration of such visits. (Ord. 22-11, 6-2-2022)
6-3-17: OUTDOOR LIGHTING:
   A.   Purpose: Outdoor lighting standards prevent light trespass, promote
energy efficiency, minimize light pollution, and enhance public safety.
   B.   Applicability:
      1.   The requirements of this section apply to all new or replacement
outdoor lighting unless otherwise allowed or required in the village code;
provided, replacement of bulbs/ballasts nor repairs to lighting fixtures not
requiring a building permit shall not alone be considered replacement lighting.
      2.   The following are expressly exempt from the requirements of this
section but shall be subject to reasonable restrictions imposed by the Zoning
Administrator as necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
public:
         a.   Holiday lighting and lighted decorations from October 1 through
January 31;
         b.   Low-voltage landscape lighting;
         c.   Public streetlights; and
         d.   Temporary lighting, defined as fewer than thirty (30) days.
   C.   General Requirements:
      1.   Photometric Plan: A photometric plan detailing conformance with the
requirements and standards of this section must be approved by the village
engineer prior to installation of outdoor light fixtures for non-residential
uses and for multifamily uses. The photometric plan must include all
information required by the village engineer but shall include at least the
following information:
         a.   Scale drawing of the site with all outdoor lighting fixture
locations identified;
         b.   Fixture specifications indicting the type of fixture. height,
shielding, lighting type, and wattage;
         c.   Lamp type and size; and
         d.   A point-by-point illumination array along the property lines of
the subject site that identifies illumination levels at (minimum) ten-foot
(10') intervals along the property lines.
      2.   Prohibited Lighting: Any outdoor lighting that may be confused with
a traffic control device is prohibited except if it is authorized by federal,
state, county, or local government. Flashing lights, strobe lights, and laser
lights, are prohibited.
      3.   Design That Prevents Glare: All lighting must be designed to prevent
glare and interference with residential lots and motor vehicle, bicycle, and
pedestrian traffic.
      4.   Fixtures: All new and replacement outdoor lighting must employ full
cut-off or fully shielded fixtures, provided, other than parking lot lights,
outdoor lighting located at least five feet (5') from all property lines may
provide other means of screening light from shining upward to satisfy this
requirement such as a roof over the area. In such case that other means of
screening upward light are utilized, the photometric plan shall show no upward
light beyond the screening structure.
      5.   Facade And Signage Illumination: Building facade and signage
illumination must be limited to fully shielded fixtures directed towards the
facade or sign. All light from such fixtures must be concentrated on the
exterior surface of the building or sign being illuminated.
      6.   Light-Emitting Signs: Signs that emit light shall be subject to the
requirements and standards in this section, except that the maximum height of
such signs shall not be governed by the Height Standards subsection herein.
      7.   Automatic Lighting Controls: All outdoor lighting for non-
residential uses must be controlled by a sensor or timer to automatically
reduce outdoor lighting when sufficient daylight is available.
      8.   Mixed Use Lots: A lot in a business or industrial zoning district
containing a residential use shall be considered non-residential for the
purposes of this section.
      9.   Multiple-Family Dwellings: Multiple-family dwellings shall be
considered non-residential uses for the purposes of this section.
   D.   Illumination Standards:
      1.   Non-Residential Uses: Outdoor lighting must not exceed one foot-
candle (1 fc) at any point on a lot line for a lot containing a non-residential
use; provided, outdoor lighting must not exceed one-half foot-candle (0.5 fc)
at any point on a lot line for a lot adjacent to a residential use.
      2.   Residential Uses: Outdoor lighting must not exceed one-half foot-
candle (0.5 fc) at any point on a lot line for a lot containing a residential
use.
      3.   Recreational Facilities: The average outdoor lighting level for
recreational uses must not exceed fifty foot-candles (50 fc), with the
exception of golf-related facilities, which are limited to a maximum average
lighting level of five foot-candles (5 fc) for courses and twenty foot-candles
(20 fc) for driving ranges.
   E.   Measurement:
      1.   Metering equipment. Lighting levels must be measured in foot-candles
with a direct-reading light meter. The meter must be read within an accuracy of
plus or minus five percent (5%).
      2.   Method Of Measurement:
         a.   The meter must be mounted or maintained in a horizontal position
not more than six inches (6") above ground level at the property line.
         b.   Readings may be taken only after the meter has been exposed long
enough to provide a constant reading.
         c.   To eliminate the effects of moonlight and other ambient light,
measurements must be made at least thirty (30) minutes after sunset and at
least (30) minutes prior to sunrise with the light sources in question on, then
with the same sources off. The difference between the two readings shall be the
measurement that is compared to the applicable illumination standard.
   F.   Height Standards:
      1.   Non-Residential Uses:
         a.   In industrial zoning districts, light poles and building-mounted
fixtures must not exceed thirty feet (30') in height.
         b.   Light poles for educational facilities or outdoor recreational
facilities must not exceed sixty feet (60') in height.
         c.   In all other zoning districts, light poles and building-mounted
fixtures must not exceed twenty feet (20') in height.
      2.   Residential Uses: Light poles must not exceed twenty feet (20') in
height, and building-mounted fixtures, including under-soffit lighting, must
not exceed ten feet (10') in height. (Ord. 24-03, 1-18-2024)
ARTICLE IV
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Statement Of Purpose
6-4-2: Authority To Continue Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses
6-4-3: Restrictions Of Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses
6-4-4: Elimination Of Nonconforming Buildings And Structures
6-4-5: Exempted Buildings, Structures And Uses
6-4-6: Condemnation Of Nonconforming Buildings And Structures
6-4-7: Nonconforming Use Of Buildings Or Structures
6-4-8: Nonconforming Use Of Land
6-4-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The purposes of this Article are as follows:
   A.   To provide for the regulation of nonconforming uses, buildings and
structures; and
   B.   To specify those circumstances and conditions under which nonconforming
buildings, structures and uses shall be gradually eliminated upon reaching the
end of their respective normal useful lives, in accordance with the authority
granted by Illinois Revised Statutes, chapter 24, section 11-13-1. (1985 Code)
6-4-2: AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
Any nonconforming building, structure, or use which existed lawfully at the
time of the adoption of this Zoning Chapter and which remains nonconforming,
and any such building, structure or use which shall become nonconforming upon
the adoption of this Zoning Chapter or of any subsequent amendment thereto, may
be continued, but only subject to the amortization periods and other
regulations set forth in this Article IV. (1985 Code)
6-4-3: RESTRICTIONS OF NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
Any nonconforming building, structure or use which existed lawfully at the time
of the adoption of this Zoning Chapter and which remains nonconforming, and any
such building, structure or use which shall become nonconforming upon the
adoption of this Zoning Chapter or of any subsequent amendment thereto, shall
be subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   Repairs And Alterations:
      1.   Ordinary repairs and alterations, including the replacement of
storage tanks where the safety of operation of the building, structure or use
requires such replacement, and as otherwise determined by the Zoning
Administrator, may be made to a nonconforming building or structure.
      2.   No structural alterations shall be made in or to a nonconforming
building or structure, all or substantially all of which is designed or
intended for a use not permitted in the district in which it is located, except
as follows:
         a.   Those structural alterations which will make the building or
structure, and use thereof, conform to the regulations of the district in which
it is located.
   B.   Additions And Enlargements:
      1.   No addition or enlargement of any kind shall be made to a
nonconforming building or structure, all or substantially all of which is
designed or intended for a use not permitted in the district in which it is
located, and specifically including a building or structure nonconforming only
as to bulk, except as follows:
         a.   An addition or enlargement made to conform a nonconforming
building or structure, and the use thereof, to all the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
   C.   Moving: A building or structure which does not conform to all the
regulations of the district in which it is located shall not be moved, in whole
or in part, to any other location, unless every portion of such building or
structure is moved, and the use thereof is made to conform to all the
regulations of the district into which it is moved.
   D.   Restoration Of Damaged Nonconforming Buildings: A building or
structure, all or substantially all of the building or structure which was
designed or intended for a use which is not permitted in the district in which
it is located, and which is destroyed or damaged by fire, other casualty, or
act of God, shall be restored subject to the following conditions:
      1.   If the building or structure is destroyed or damaged to the extent
that the cost of restoration to the condition in which it existed prior to the
occurrence will exceed fifty percent (50%) of the cost of restoration of the
entire building or structure new, the building or structure, and the use
thereof, shall be restored only if they conform after restoration to all
regulations of the district in which said building or structure is located;
      2.   If the building or structure is destroyed or damaged to the extent
that the cost of restoration to the condition in which it existed prior to the
occurrence is less that fifty percent (50%) of the cost of restoration of the
entire building or structure new, such restoration shall be started within one
year from the date of the partial destruction, and be thereafter diligently
prosecuted to completion.
   E.   Discontinuance Of Use Of A Nonconforming Building Or Structure: A
building, structure or portion thereof shall not be occupied or used except by
a use which conforms to the use regulations of the district in which it is
located when the following conditions occur:
      1.   All or substantially all of the building, structure or any portion
thereof is designed or intended for a use which is not permitted in the
district in which it is located; and
      2.   The building, structure or portion thereof is or becomes vacant,
unoccupied, and not used:
         a.   On the effective date of this Zoning Chapter; or
         b.   For any continuous period of one hundred eighty (180) days any
time after the effective date of this Zoning Chapter.
   F.   Expansion Of Use In Nonconforming Buildings Or Structures: The
nonconforming use of a part of a building or structure may be expanded within
the building or structure in which said use is presently located, with the
following exception:
      1.   No change or structural alteration shall be made unless such change
or structural alteration and the use thereof conforms to all the regulations of
the district in which the building or structure is located.
   G.   Change Of Use In Nonconforming Buildings Or Structures: The
nonconforming use of building or structure may be changed to a use permitted in
the district in which the building or structure is located, provided that no
change shall extend or otherwise modify any provision made in this Chapter for
elimination of such nonconforming building or structure, and the use thereof.
(1985 Code)
6-4-4: ELIMINATION OF NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Any building or structure, all or substantially all of which is
designed or intended for a use not permitted in the district in which it is
located, shall be removed, and its use thereafter shall cease, or shall be
converted to a building or structure designed or intended for a use permitted
in the district in which it is located.
   B.   Such elimination of nonconforming buildings and structures shall be in
accordance with the following conditions and amortization schedules:
      1.   Residence Districts And Estate Districts: Any building or structure
which is located in any estate or residence district, and all or substantially
all of which is designed or intended for a use permitted only in a business or
manufacturing district, shall be removed or it shall be altered and converted
to a building or structure designed for a use permitted in the district in
which it is located within six (6) months after the termination of the
respective period of time established in subsection B3 of this Section.
      2.   Business Districts: Any building or structure which is located in a
B1 or B2 District and which is designed or intended for a use permitted only in
a manufacturing district, shall be removed or shall be altered, remodeled, or
converted to a permitted use within six (6) months after the termination of the
life of such building or structure, which is established in subsection B3 of
this Section.
      3.   Amortization Schedule:
         a.   A building or structure with an assessed valuation on the
effective date of this Zoning Chapter over five thousand dollars ($5,000.00),
but not more than thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00), shall be amortized in
accordance with its type of construction, as follows:
            (1)   Fireproof Construction And Noncombustible Construction: Forty
(40) years from the date of building permit or twenty five (25) years from
effective date of this Zoning Chapter, whichever last occurs.
            (2)   Exterior Masonry Wall Construction: Thirty (30) years from
the date of building permit or twenty (20) years from effective date of this
Zoning Chapter, whichever last occurs.
            (3)   Frame Construction: Twenty (20) years from the date of
building permit or ten (10) years from effective date of this Zoning Chapter,
whichever last occurs.
         b.   A building or structure with an assessed valuation on the
effective date of this Zoning Chapter over two thousand dollars ($2,000.00),
but not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), shall be amortized as
follows:
            (1)   Eight (8) years from the date of building permit or ten (10)
years from effective date of this Zoning Chapter, whichever last occurs.
         c.   A building or structure with an assessed valuation on the
effective date of this Zoning Chapter under two thousand dollars ($2,000.00),
shall be amortized as follows:
            (1)   Four (4) years from the date of building permit or two (2)
years from effective date of this Zoning Chapter, whichever last occurs. (1985
Code)
6-4-5: EXEMPTED BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   The following buildings, structures and uses shall be exempted from the
amortization periods set forth in this Article IV:
      1.   Any building, structure or use lawfully established on the effective
date of this Chapter which shall be nonconforming solely with respect to the
standards prescribed in this Zoning Chapter for any of the following:
         a.   Floor area ratio;
         b.   Yards - front, side, rear, or transitional;
         c.   Lot area per dwelling unit;
         d.   Lot width;
         e.   Ground floor area per dwelling;
         f.   Gross floor area;
         g.   Building height; or
         h.   Off-street parking or off-street loading spaces.
      2.   Any building, structure or use lawfully established on the effective
date of this Chapter and located in any manufacturing district.
      3.   Any dwelling or dwelling unit, lawfully existing on the effective
date of this Zoning Chapter.
      4.   Any building, structure, or use located in a business district,
provided that it is a permitted building, structure or use in any business
district described in this Zoning Chapter.
   B.   For the purposes of this Article IV, a building or structure lawfully
constructed or established on the effective date of this Zoning Chapter shall
be deemed to include any building or structure for which a building permit has
been lawfully issued prior to such date, and on which construction is begun
within the required period of time as set forth in this Chapter.
   C.   For purposes of this Article IV, no building, structure, or use
lawfully established on the effective date of this Chapter and located in any
manufacturing district shall be considered nonconforming solely with respect to
the location of off-street loading berths in a front yard or a side yard
adjoining a street, and with respect to such off-street loading berths being
less than fifty feet (50') in length but not less than twenty seven feet (27')
in length. (1985 Code)
6-4-6: CONDEMNATION OF NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   The Village of Hampshire, at any time and from time to time by
ordinance duly enacted and in accordance with the authority vested in it by
Illinois Revised Statutes, chapter 11-13-17, shall have the following powers:
      1.   To acquire by purchase, condemnation, or otherwise, any buildings or
structures which do not conform to the standards fixed by the Village of
Hampshire pursuant to section 11-13-1, chapter 24 of the Revised Statutes of
the State of Illinois, and all land which is necessary or appropriate for the
rehabilitation or redevelopment of any area blighted by substandard buildings
or structures;
      2.   To remove or demolish all such nonconforming buildings or structures
so acquired;
      3.   To hold and use any remaining property for public purposes; and
      4.   To sell, lease or exchange such property as is not required for
public purposes, subject to the provisions of this Chapter or of any amendment
hereto.
   B.   No such acquisition by condemnation shall be made until such time as
the Planning and Zoning Commission, at the request of the Village Board of
Trustees or upon its own initiative, shall have made a study of the area within
which such nonconforming building or structure is located, and shall have filed
a written report on such study with the Village Board of Trustees. (1985 Code;
amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
6-4-7: NONCONFORMING USE OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
The lawfully existing nonconforming use of part or all of a building or
structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure is designed
or intended for a use permitted in the district in which it is located, may be
continued subject to the following provisions:
   A.   The nonconforming use of part of a building or structure, all or
substantially all of which building or structure is designed or intended for a
use permitted in the district in which it is located, shall not be expanded or
extended into any other portion of such building or structure, nor changed to
any other nonconforming use.
   B.   If a nonconforming use of a building or structure, all or substantially
all of which building or structure is designed or intended for a use permitted
in the district in which it is located, is discontinued for a period of ninety
(90) days, it shall not be renewed, and any subsequent use of the building or
structure shall conform to the use regulations of the district in which the
premises are located.
   C.   No nonconforming use shall be changed to another nonconforming use when
such nonconforming use is located in a building or structure all or
substantially all of which building or structure is designed or intended for a
permitted use. (1985 Code)
6-4-8: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
   A.   The nonconforming use of land not involving a building or structure, or
in connection with which any building or structure thereon is incidental or
accessory to the principal use of the land, may be continued subject to the
following provisions:
      1.   A nonconforming use of land shall not be extended beyond the area it
occupies.
      2.   If a nonconforming use of land is discontinued for a period of six
(6) consecutive months, it shall not thereafter be renewed, and any subsequent
use of land shall conform to the regulations of the district in which the land
is located.
      3.   A nonconforming use of land shall not be changed to any other use
except to a use permitted in the district in which the land is located.
   B.   The nonconforming use of land shall be discontinued and cease in
accordance with the following, except that in Estate, R-1 and R-2 Districts,
the allowable term shall be reduced by fifty percent (50%):
      1.   Where no building or structure is employed in connection with such
use, within one year.
      2.   Where the only buildings or structures or other physical
improvements employed are accessory or incidental to such use and have an
assessed valuation of not more than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) on the
effective date of this Zoning Chapter, within two (2) years.
      3.   Where the improvements, underground or substantially at ground
level, which comprise all or substantially all of the improvements employed in
a nonconforming use of land and which have an assessed valuation of more than
two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) on the effective date of this Chapter, within
five (5) years.
      4.   Where a nonconforming use of land is accessory to the nonconforming
use of a building or structure, on the same date on which the nonconforming use
of the building or structure is discontinued. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE V
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Establishment Of Districts
6-5-2: Map
6-5-3: Boundaries Of Districts
6-5-4: Annexed Territory
6-5-5: Exemptions For Public Utility Uses
6-5-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS:
In order to carry out the purposes and provisions of this chapter, the village
of Hampshire is hereby divided into the following districts:
A. Estate Districts:
    E-1 Estate
    E-2 Estate
    E-3 Estate
B. Residence Districts:
    R-1 Single-family residence
    R-2 Single-family residence
    R-3 Two-family residence
    R-4 Residence
    RR  Rural residential
C. Business Districts:
    B-1 Central business
    B-2 Community business
    B-3 Service business
    B-4 Office business
    O-R Office-research
    HC  Highway commercial
    RB  Rural business
D. Industrial Districts:
    M-1 Restricted industrial
    M-2 General industrial
    M-3 Industrial
    O-M Office and restricted manufacturing
E. Farming District:
    F-1 Restricted farming
 
(1985 Code; amd. Ord. 90-2, 4-5-1990; Ord. 92-10, 10-1-1992; Ord. 98-14, 7-16-
1998; Ord. 03-01, 4-3-2003)
6-5-2: MAP:
   A.   The location and boundaries of the districts established by this
chapter are set forth on the zoning district map, dated November 6, 1980, which
is incorporated herein and hereby made a part of this chapter.
   B.   The said map, together with everything shown thereon, and all
amendments thereto, shall be as much a part of this chapter as though fully set
forth and described herein.
   C.   The said map shall be filed with the office of the zoning
administrator, and shall be open to public reference at all times during which
said office is open. (1985 Code)
6-5-3: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:
When uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts, as shown on the zoning district map, the following rules shall
apply:
   A.   District boundary lines are either the center lines of railroads,
highways, streets, alleys or easements, tract or lot lines or such lines
extended, unless otherwise indicated.
   B.   In areas not subdivided into lots or blocks, wherever a district is
indicated as a strip adjacent to and paralleling a street, highway, or
railroad, the depth of such strips shall be in accordance with dimensions shown
on maps measured at right angles from the center line of the street, highway or
railroad, and the length of frontage shall be in accordance with dimensions
shown on the map from center lines of streets, highways, or railroad rights of
way unless otherwise indicated.
   C.   Where a district boundary line divides a lot in single ownership, the
regulations for either portion of the lot may, in the owner's discretion,
extend to the entire lot, but not more than twenty five feet (25') beyond the
boundary of the district. (1985 Code)
6-5-4: ANNEXED TERRITORY:
Any additions to the incorporated area of the Village resulting from
disconnection by the County or otherwise shall be automatically classified
among the E-1 Estate Districts until otherwise classified by amendment, or
unless an agreement in writing is entered into between the corporate
authorities and the owners of record in any territory which may be annexed to
this Municipality in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-15.1 as amended. (1985 Code)
6-5-5: EXEMPTIONS FOR PUBLIC UTILITY USES:
   A.   The following public utility uses are permitted in any district: poles,
towers, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes, mains, valves, or any
other similar distributing equipment.
   B.   Outdoor coin telephones and booths are permitted in business and
manufacturing districts only, provided that installation shall conform with
rules and regulations of the applicable administrative authorities. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE VI
ESTATE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-6-1: General Provisions
6-6-2: E-1 Estate District Requirements
6-6-3: E-2 Estate District Requirements
6-6-4: E-3 Estate District Requirements
6-6-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   All estate districts will comply with R-1 district requirements for
side yard, front yard, rear yard, ground floor area, building height and
parking 1 .
   B.   At no time shall a nonresidential use in an estate district be less
than one acre minimum lot size. (1985 Code) (Ord. 19-20, 8-22-2019; amd. Ord.
22-11, 6-2-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-7-1 of this chapter.
6-6-2: E-1 ESTATE DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: In an E-1 district, the only uses permitted are as
follows:
      A single temporary office and off street parking space shall be permitted
on any subdivision development, for a period not to exceed one year, renewable
yearly.
      Agriculture, which in this district shall mean the cultivation of the
soil principally for the production of food products, but shall not include the
following:
         1.   The raising or dealing in poultry, dogs, rabbits or other small
animals or swine, cattle or other livestock for business or commercial
purposes, except as incidental to a bona fide general farming operation.
            a. Any such animals or poultry shall not be housed, stabled,
kenneled, or yarded closer than one hundred feet (100') from any residence
other than that of the owner or user of the property.
         2.   The use for feeding of community or collected garbage, or any
disposal of such garbage.
      Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined
in and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of
this Code.
      Churches.
      Community buildings and social and recreational centers of a community
nature incorporated and operated not for profit.
      Filling and leveling of holes, pits and low land with nonodorous and
noncombustible material, free from any garbage and food wastes.
      Golf courses and country clubs incorporated and operated not for profit.
      Lights for illuminating entrance driveways may be installed in such a
location outside the public right-of- way as, in the opinion of the Zoning
Administrator, shall not constitute a traffic hazard.
      Public and community parks, playgrounds and forest preserves, excluding
commercial enterprises therein.
         1.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may, upon written application
made therefor, recommend to the Board of Trustees approval, approval with
conditions, or disapproval of such temporary seasonal permits for the selling
and dispensing of food, refreshments and nonalcoholic beverages in certain
designated areas, terminable by said Board at such time or times as may be
determined by it, as shall be compatible with the general purposes of the
classification of this district; and the Board of Trustees shall approve,
approve with conditions, or disapprove such temporary seasonal permits upon
receipt of such recommendation.
         2.   No right or privilege to continue the selling or dispensing of
any such products beyond the period of time designated by the Board, or beyond
the time when such right or privilege is terminated by it, shall be accrued by
reason of the issuance of any such permit.
      Public and community waterworks, police stations and fire stations.
      Public and private nursery schools, grade schools and high schools
incorporated and operated not for profit.
      Single-family residence, each one on a building lot or tract of not less
than two hundred fifty feet (250') of average width and four (4) acres in area
not including any portion of any public or private highway, street or alley,
excepting any smaller lot or parcel of land of public record on the adoption
date of this chapter, as amended or subsequently officially recommended for
approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission and approved by the Board of
Trustees.
      Storage of gasoline for private, domestic use, in underground tanks,
installation of which has been approved by the State Fire Marshal, provided
said storage tank and any pump used in connection therewith is located as
follows:
         1.   Not less than twenty five feet (25') from side and rear lot
lines, the setback to meet requirements as provided in subsection
6-7-1C6 of this chapter, and
         2.   Not less than fifty feet (50') from any well, and
         3.   Not less than twenty five feet (25') from any septic system, and
         4.   Not less than twenty five feet (25') from any building.
      Telephone pedestals for use by the public, as follows:
         1.   Said pedestals may be permitted at less than the distance from
the centerline of public or private rights-of-way required in subsection
6-7-1C6 of this chapter, provided also that no part of any such pedestals shall
be permitted on any such right-of- way.
         2.   Whenever such pedestal is installed near an intersection of two
(2) streets or rights-of-way, the minimum setback from one of such intersecting
right-of-way lines shall be no less than twenty feet (20').
      Telephone repeater stations, microwave radio relay towers and stations,
and mobile transmitting towers and stations.
      Waiting stations for bus passengers, as follows:
         1.   Said stations may be permitted at less than the setback distance
from centerline of public or private right-of-way required in subsection
6-7-1C6 of this chapter, provided that no part of any such station shall be
permitted on any such right-of-way, except a railroad right-of-way in use by a
railroad.
         2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 1 of this use,
whenever such station is constructed near an intersection of two (2) streets or
rights-of-way, the required setback as set forth in said subsection
6-7-1C6 of this chapter shall be observed from at least one of such
intersecting streets or rights-of- way.
         3.   Upon discontinuance of the use of any such structure as a waiting
station for bus passengers, such structure must be removed within thirty (30)
days from such discontinuance. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018)
   B.   Special Uses: In an E-1 District, the following special uses may be
allowed:
         Wind energy systems, as defined in and subject to the restrictions set
forth in chapter 5, article XVII of this Code. (Ord. 11-20, 9-1-2011)
   C.   Prohibited: The following activities and structures are prohibited in
an E-1 Estate District:
         Garages or other accessory buildings, except as accessory to a
residential use.
         The storage or keeping of any truck weighing in excess of one ton.
         The storage or keeping of more than one truck of any size in
connection with each family dwelling unit, either within or without any
building provided on the premises for storage or keeping of motor vehicles.
(1985 Code; amd. Ord. 11-20, 9-1-2011; Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018; Ord. 21-15, 4-15-
2021)
6-6-3: E-2 ESTATE DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: In an E-2 District the only uses permitted are as
follows:
   Any use permitted in an E-1 District.
   Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined in
and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of this
Code.
   Single-family residence, each one on a building lot or tract of not less
than two hundred feet (200') of average width and two and one-half (21/2) acres
in area, not including any portion of any public or private highway, street or
alley, excepting any smaller lot or parcel of land of public record on the
adoption date of this chapter, as amended or subsequently officially
recommended for approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission and approved by
the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Special Uses: In an E-2 District, the following special uses may be
allowed:
   Wind energy systems, as defined in and subject to the restrictions set forth
in chapter 5, article XVII of this Code.
   C.   Prohibited: Those activities and structures prohibited in the E-
1 District are expressly prohibited herein. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 11-20, 9-1-
2011; Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018; Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
6-6-4: E-3 ESTATE DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: In an E-3 District the only uses permitted are as
follows:
   Any use permitted in the E-1 and E-2 Districts.
   Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined in
and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of this
Code.
   Single-family residence, each one on a building lot or tract of not less
than one hundred thirty two feet (132') of average width and one and one-fourth
(11/4) acres in area, not including any portion of any public or private
highway, street or alley, excepting any smaller lot or parcel of land of public
record on the adoption date of this chapter, as amended or subsequently
officially recommended for approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
approved by the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Special Uses: In an E-3 District, the following special uses may be
allowed:
   Wind energy systems, as defined in and subject to the restrictions set forth
in chapter 5, article XVII of this Code.
   C.   Prohibited: Those activities and structures prohibited in the E-
1 District are expressly prohibited herein. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 11-20, 9-1-
2011; Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018; Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
ARTICLE VII
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-7-1: R-1 Single-Family Residence District Requirements
6-7-2: R-2 Single-Family Residence District Requirements
6-7-3: R-3 Two-Family Residence District Requirements
6-7-4: R-4 Residence District Requirements
6-7-5: RR Rural Residential District
6-7-1: R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In an R-1 Residence District the only permitted uses are as follows:
      Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined
in and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of
this Code.
      Elementary, junior high and high (all nonboarding) schools.
      Parks and playgrounds which are publicly owned and operated.
      Single-family detached dwellings.
      Temporary buildings for construction purposes, for a period not to exceed
one year, renewable yearly.
      Accessory uses to the above permitted uses including, but not limited to,
off street parking and off street loading.
   B.   In an R-1 Residence District the only special uses are as follows:
      Art galleries and museums.
      Cemeteries.
      Churches.
      Colleges, universities and uses accessory and incidental thereto,
excluding colleges or trade schools operated for profit.
      Convents, monasteries and seminaries.
      Fire stations.
      Golf courses, excluding commercially operated driving ranges, miniature
golf courses or lighted par 3 golf courses for night play.
      Growing of farm crops in the open, including truck gardens and nurseries,
provided that no livestock or poultry are kept, and no offensive odors or dusts
are created, and further provided that no retail sales are conducted from a
store or stand erected or maintained on the premises.
      Hospitals.
      Libraries.
      Parks and playgrounds which are privately owned and operated.
      Police stations.
      Wind energy systems, as defined in and subject to the restrictions set
forth in chapter 5, article XVII of this Code.
   C.   In an R-1 Single-Family Residence District the following requirements
apply:
      1.   Lot area shall be not less than eighteen thousand (18,000) square
feet.
      2.   Lot width shall be not less than one hundred twenty feet (120') at
the buildable area.
      3.   Floor area ratio for all nonresidential permitted uses and special
uses shall not exceed 0.5.
      4.   Building height for single-family dwelling uses shall not exceed two
and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty feet (30'), whichever is lower.
      5.   Ground floor area per dwelling shall be as follows:
         a.   For a one-story dwelling without cellar, not less than one
thousand six hundred (1,600) square feet.
         b.   For a one-story dwelling with cellar, not less than one thousand
five hundred (1,500) square feet.
         c.   For a dwelling having more than one story, not less than one
thousand (1,000) square feet.
      6.   Front yard for single-family dwelling use shall be not less than
forty feet (40') in depth.
      7.   Side yards for single-family dwelling use shall be as follows:
         a.   There shall be two (2) side yards, with a combined width of not
less than twenty feet (20'), and each not less than ten feet (10') in width.
         b.   A side yard abutting a street shall not be less than twenty feet
(20') wide.
         c.   If a corner lot, subdivided and duly recorded on the effective
date of this chapter, has insufficient width to provide such yard of twenty
feet (20'), and still to maintain a buildable width of forty feet (40'),
including the side yard along the opposite side lot line, then the side yard
abutting the street may be reduced in width by the distance necessary to
maintain a buildable width of forty feet (40'), provided the side yard abutting
a street is not reduced to less than twenty five percent (25%) of the width of
the lot.
      8.   Rear yard for single-family dwelling uses shall be not less than
fifty feet (50') in depth.
      9.   Yards for nonresidential permitted uses and special uses shall be as
follows:
         a.   For buildings less than thirty feet (30') in height, the front,
side, and rear yards shall be as required for single- family dwelling uses.
         b.   For a building thirty feet (30') or more in height, each yard -
front, side and rear, as required for single-family dwellings - shall be
increased in width or depth by two feet (2') for each additional one foot (1')
of building height over thirty feet (30').
      10.   Off street loading for nonresidential permitted uses and special
uses shall be provided in accordance with provisions set forth in article XI of
this chapter.
      11.   Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with provisions
set forth in article XI of this chapter. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 03-01, 4-3-2003;
Ord. 11-20, 9-1-2011; Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018; Ord. 22-11, 6-2-2022)
6-7-2: R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In an R-2 Single-Family Residence District, the only permitted uses are
as follows:
      Uses permitted in the R-1 District, subsection 6-7-1A of this article.
      Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined
in and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of
this Code. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018)
   B.   In an R-2 Single-Family Residence District, the only special uses shall
be as follows:
      Special uses allowed in the R-1 Single-Family Residence District in
subsection 6-7-1B of this article.
      Convalescent, rest and nursing homes.
      Greenhouses.
      Mortuaries.
      Nursery, childcare.
      Preschools. (Ord. 07-21, 4-5-2007; Ord. 24-25, 8-1-2024)
   C.   In an R-2 Single-Family Residence District, the following requirements
shall apply:
      1.   Lot area shall be not less than twelve thousand (12,000) square
feet, except on lots of record as of April 18, 1985, for which lot area shall
be not less than six thousand five hundred (6,500) square feet. (Ord. 01-26, 8-
16-2001)
      2.   Lot width shall be not less than one hundred feet (100') at the
buildable area, except lots of record as of April 18, 1985, then not less than
sixty five feet (65'). (Ord. 01-37, 11-1-2001)
      3.   Floor area ratio for nonresidential permitted uses and special uses
shall not exceed 0.5.
      4.   Building height for single-family dwelling uses shall not exceed two
and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty feet (30'), whichever is lower.
      5.   Ground floor area per dwelling shall be as follows:
         a.   For a one-story dwelling without cellar - not less than one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet.
         b.   For a one-story dwelling with cellar - not less than one thousand
(1,000) square feet.
         c.   For a dwelling having more than one story - not less than nine
hundred (900) square feet.
      6.   Front yard for single-family dwelling use shall be not less than
thirty feet (30') in depth.
      7.   Side yard for single-family dwelling use shall be as follows:
         a.   There shall be two (2) side yards having a combined width of not
less than twenty feet (20'), and neither side yard shall be less than ten feet
(10') in width.
         b.   A side yard abutting a street shall not be less than fifteen feet
(15') wide.
         c.   If a corner lot, subdivided and duly recorded on the effective
date of this chapter, has insufficient width to provide such yard of fifteen
feet (15'), and still to maintain a buildable width of forty two feet (42'),
including the side yard along the opposite side lot line, then the side yard
abutting the street may be reduced in width by the distance necessary to
maintain a buildable width of forty two feet (42'), provided the side yard
abutting the street is not reduced to less than thirty percent (30%) of the
width of the lot.
      8.   Rear yard for single-family dwelling uses shall be not less than
forty feet (40') in depth.
      9.   Yards for nonresidential permitted uses and special uses shall be as
follows:
         a.   For buildings less than thirty feet (30') in height, each yard -
front, side and rear, as required for single-family dwellings - shall be
increased in width or depth by two feet (2') for each additional one foot (1')
of building height over thirty feet (30').
      10.   Off street loading for nonresidential permitted uses and special
uses shall be provided in accordance with provisions set forth in article XI of
this chapter.
      11.   Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with provisions
set forth in article XI of this chapter. (1985 Code)
6-7-3: R-3 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In an R-3 Residence District, the only permitted uses are as follows:
      Uses permitted in the R-2 District.
      Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined
in and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of
this Code.
      Single-family semidetached dwellings.
      Two-family detached dwellings. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018)
   B.   In an R-3 Residence District, the only special uses are as follows:
Special uses allowed in the R-2 District. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 03-01, 4-3-
2003)
   C.   In an R-3 Residence District, the following requirements shall apply:
      1.   Lot area shall be as follows:
         a.   Not less than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet for
single-family detached dwellings.
         b.   Not less than six thousand three hundred (6,300) square feet for
each dwelling unit in two-family detached dwellings.
      2.   Lot width shall be as follows:
         a.   Not less than eighty feet (80') at the buildable area for single-
family detached dwellings.
         b.   Not less than one hundred feet (100') at the buildable area for
two-family detached dwellings or single-family semidetached dwellings.
      3.   Floor area ratio for nonresidential permitted uses and special uses
shall not exceed 0.5.
      4.   Building height for dwelling uses shall not exceed two and one-half
(21/2) stories or thirty feet (30'), whichever is lower.
      5.   Ground floor area per dwelling shall be as set forth in subsection
6-7-2C5 of this article, for R-2 Residence Districts.
      6.   Front yard for dwelling uses shall be not less than twenty five feet
(25') in depth.
      7.   Side yard for dwelling uses shall be as follows:
         a.   There shall be two (2) side yards having a combined width of not
less than twenty feet (20'), and neither side yard shall be less than ten feet
(10') in width.
         b.   A side yard abutting a street shall not be less than twelve feet
(12') wide.
         c.   If a corner lot, subdivided and duly recorded on the effective
date of this chapter, has insufficient width to provide such yard of twelve
feet (12'), and still maintain a buildable width of thirty seven feet (37'),
including the side yard along the opposite side lot line, then the side yard
abutting the street may be reduced in width by the distance necessary to
maintain a buildable width of thirty two feet (32'), provided the side yard
abutting the street is not reduced to less than thirty percent (30%) of the
width of the lot.
      8.   Rear yard for dwelling uses shall be not less than thirty feet (30')
in depth.
      9.   Yards for nonresidential permitted uses and special uses shall be as
follows:
         a.   For buildings less than thirty feet (30') in height, the front,
side and rear yards shall be as required for dwelling uses.
         b.   For a building thirty feet (30') or more in height, each yard
front, side and rear, as required for dwellings shall be increased in width or
depth by two feet (2') for each additional one foot (1') of building height
over thirty feet (30').
      10.   Off street loading for nonresidential permitted uses and special
uses shall be provided in accordance with provisions set forth in article XI of
this chapter.
      11.   Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with provisions
set forth in article XI of this chapter. (1985 Code)
6-7-4: R-4 RESIDENCE DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In an R-4 Residence District, the only permitted uses are as follows:
      Uses permitted in the R-3 District.
      Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined
in and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of
this Code.
      Libraries.
      Multiple-family dwellings having not more than six (6) units.
      Single-family attached dwellings. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018)
   B.   In an R-4 Residence District, the only special uses are as follows:
      Special uses allowed in the R-3 District, except libraries.
      Institutions for the care of the aged and for children.
      Multiple-family dwellings having more than six (6) units per building.
      Municipally operated health centers.
      Private boarding schools.
      Rooming houses.
      Sanatoriums and nursing homes, so long as not for the care of feeble
minded or insane persons.
   C.   In an R-4 Residence District, the following requirements shall apply:
      1.   Lot area shall be as follows:
         a.   For single-family detached dwellings, not less than ten thousand
(10,000) square feet.
         b.   For two-family detached dwellings, not less than five thousand
(5,000) square feet per unit.
         c.   For single-family semidetached and attached dwellings, as
follows:
 
Type Of Dwelling Unit Minimum Lot Area Per Dwelling
                      Unit In Square Feet
Single-Family         Semidetached Attached
4 bedroom and over    6,000        5,000
3 bedroom             5,500        4,500
Less than 3 bedroom   5,000        4,000
 
         d.   For multiple-family dwellings, as follows:
 
Type Of Dwelling Unit    Minimum Lot Area Per Dwelling
                         Unit In Square Feet
4 bedroom and over       5,000
3 bedroom                4,600
Less than 3 bedroom      4,300
1 bedroom and efficiency 4,000
 
   (1985 Code)
         e.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection C1, for
lots of record in the village as of April 18, 1985, lot area shall be not less
than sixty five percent (65%) of the lot area otherwise prescribed herein.
(Ord. 87-10, 7-16-1987)
      2.   Lot width shall be as follows:
         a.   Not less than eighty feet (80') for single-family detached
dwellings.
         b.   Not less than one hundred feet (100') for two-family detached,
single-family semidetached and attached dwellings, and multiple-family
dwellings.
      3.   Floor area ratio for nonresidential permitted uses and special uses
shall not exceed 0.5.
      4.   Building height for dwelling uses shall be as follows:
         a.   As in subsection 6-7-1C4 of this article for single-family
detached, semidetached, or attached dwellings and two-family detached
dwellings.
         b.   Not more than three (3) stories or thirty five feet (35'),
whichever is lower, for multiple-family dwellings.
         c.   As allowed by special use, but in no case to exceed a floor area
ratio of 0.5.
      5.   Front yard for dwelling uses shall not be less than thirty feet
(30') in depth.
      6.   Side yard for dwelling uses shall be as follows:
         a.   Two (2) side yards having a combined width of not less than
twenty feet (20'), with each side yard not less than ten feet (10') in width.
         b.   A side yard abutting a street shall not be less than fifteen feet
(15') in width.
         c.   If a corner lot, subdivided and duly recorded on the effective
date of this chapter, has insufficient width to provide such yard of fifteen
feet (15'), and still to maintain a buildable width of thirty two feet (32'),
including the side yard along the opposite side lot line, then the side yard
abutting the street may be reduced by the distance necessary to maintain a
buildable width of thirty two feet (32'), provided such side yard is not
reduced to less than thirty percent (30%) of the width of the lot.
      7.   Rear yard for dwelling uses shall be not less than thirty feet (30')
in depth.
      8.   Yards for nonresidential permitted uses and special uses shall be
the same as required for dwelling uses for buildings less than thirty five feet
(35') in height in residential districts.
      9.   Off street loading shall be provided in accordance with provisions
set forth in article XI of this chapter.
      10.   Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with provisions
set forth in article XI of this chapter.
   D.   In an R-4 residence district, conversions of existing residential
buildings shall be governed by the following:
      1.   The quotient secured by dividing the floor area of all dwelling
units on a lot by the number of dwelling units on such lot shall not be less
than six hundred (600) square feet.
      2.   No existing residential use shall be so converted as to conflict
with, or further conflict with, the requirements in subsection D1 of this
section.
      3.   Where applicable, an efficiency dwelling unit or a lodging room may
be considered seventy five hundredths (0.75) dwelling unit in determining
compliance with subsection D1 of this section. (1985 Code)
6-7-5: RR RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: This district is intended only for single-family residences
and only for those areas otherwise not suitable for agricultural use.
   B.   Permitted Uses: In the RR rural residential district, the following
shall be permitted uses:
      Accessory uses to one-family dwellings.
      Agricultural uses, as defined herein.
      One-family dwellings. (Ord. 92-10, 10-1-1992)
   C.   Special Uses: In an RR district, the following special uses may be
allowed:
      Wind energy systems, as defined in and subject to the restrictions set
forth in chapter 5, article XVII of this code. (Ord. 11-20, 9-1-2011)
   D.   Standards For Rezoning: No land shall be rezoned to this classification
unless the applicant shall present clear and convincing evidence to the village
that the property sought to be rezoned is not suitable for agricultural uses.
      1.   The village shall consider and make findings regarding the following
factors in determining the suitability of the land for agricultural use:
         a.   Existence of nonprime farmland based on the Kane County soil
survey and important farmlands map, and other applicable sources.
         b.   Topography.
         c.   Manmade and physical features which may serve as barriers.
         d.   Vegetative cover.
         e.   Parcel size.
         f.   Adjacent land uses.
   E.   Lot Size: Every one-family dwelling hereafter erected shall be located
on a tract of land having an area of not less than one acre nor more than
fifteen (15) acres. The exact amount of acreage for each lot shall be
determined in individual case by the village board, upon the recommendation of
the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      1.   In determining the specific lot size to be required, the village
board shall consider and make findings concerning the following factors:
         a.   Existing topography and proposed topographical changes.
         b.   Suitability of the subject property for subsurface sanitary
disposal system.
         c.   Soil types and soil characteristics.
         d.   Existing conditions and proposed changes with respect to drainage
of surface and subsurface waters.
         e.   Existing and proposed vegetation and ground cover.
         f.   Suitability of access, traffic conditions and congestion.
         g.   Diminishing property values in the area or injury to the use and
enjoyment of other property.
         h.   Such other conditions and factors as to the Planning and Zoning
Commission and village board shall seem relevant in an individual case.
   F.   Width And Frontage Of Lot On Right Of Way: Excessive lot depth in
relation to lot width shall be avoided. A proportion of two and one-half to one
(21/2:1) shall normally be considered a desirable maximum ratio for lots of one
hundred foot (100') width or more. Side lot lines shall be substantially at
right angles or radial to street lines. (Ord. 92-10, 10-1-1992; amd. Ord. 11-
20, 9-1-2011; Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
ARTICLE VIII
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-8-1: General Provisions
6-8-2: B-1 Central Business District
6-8-3: B-2 Community Business District
6-8-4: B-3 Service Business District
6-8-5: B-4 Office Business District
6-8-6: O-R Office Research District
6-8-7: HC Highway Commercial District
6-8-8: RB Rural Business District
6-8-9: REC Recreational District
6-8-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   All business, service, storage, merchandise, display, and where
permitted, repair and processing, shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed
building, except as otherwise permitted herein for specified uses such as off
street automobile parking, off street loading, open sales lots or outside
storage in districts where they are permitted.
   B.   Goods sold shall consist primarily of new merchandise, and any goods
produced on the premises shall be sold at retail on the premises unless
otherwise permitted herein for specified uses.
   C.   Processes and equipment employed and goods processed or sold shall be
limited to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke,
cinders, gas, noise, vibration, refuse matter, or water carried waste. (Ord.
90-2, 4-5-1990)
6-8-2: B-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   A.   General Purpose: The zoning regulations for this zoning district shall
recognize the historic significance, spatial layout, and yard and parking
limitations of the original Central Business District and immediately
surrounding adjacent areas in the Village of Hampshire. (1985 Code)
   B.   Permitted Uses: In a B-1 Business District, the following permitted
uses shall be allowed:
      Art galleries, museums and other semipublic, indoor exhibition uses; but
not including auction rooms.
      Automobile service stations.
      Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined
in and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of
this Code.
      Catering establishments.
      Dwelling units or lodging rooms may be permitted above the ground floor
(i.e., on the 2nd or higher floor) on any parcel on which is located a
permitted or allowed special use.
         Said dwelling unit shall be on the second floor of the building, or
higher floor.
         Yards shall be provided in accordance with the requirements for the B-
1 Central Business District.
      Dwelling units or lodging rooms shall not otherwise be permitted.
      Establishments for educational services, including trade schools,
dancing, music and singing schools, and daycare centers.
      Establishments for machinery and appliance repair.
      Establishments for personal services, including hairstyling, clothes
cleaning, and shoe repair.
      Facilities for indoor entertainment and recreation, including theater,
bowling alley, pool hall, rollerskating rinks, and private clubs, including
game rooms or amusement centers.
      Frozen food shops, including locker rental in conjunction therewith.
      Meat markets, including markets for the sale of meat and meat products to
restaurants, hotels, clubs and other similar establishments when conducted as
part of the retail business on the premises.
      Microbreweries (for retail sales only, no wholesale sales).
      Nursery schools.
      Offices for commercial services, including advertising, radio, TV,
newspapers, interior decorating, and printing.
      Offices for professional use, including doctor, attorney, insurance,
financial establishments and real estate, but expressly excluding massage
therapy establishments.
      Parks and playgrounds which are publicly owned and operated.
      Public garages.
      Restaurants and taverns, including brew pubs.
      Stores for retail sales of household goods, garden supplies, sporting
goods, and personal products, including food, drugs, alcoholic beverages,
clothing, furniture, appliances, hardware, gifts, specialty and hobby items and
books; and of office supplies.
      Accessory uses to the above permitted uses.
   C.   Special Uses: In the B-1 Central Business District, the following
special uses shall be allowed:
      Firearm and gun stores.
      Massage therapy establishments.
      Messenger services.
      Planned developments on a tract of land not more than five (5) acres, nor
less than two and one-half (21/2) acres in the area.
      Public utility and public service uses, including fire stations, police
stations, electric substations, telephone exchanges, and transit and
transportation facilities.
      Senior citizen housing and retirement homes.
      Wind energy systems, as defined in and subject to the restrictions set
forth in chapter 5, article XVII of this Code.
   D.   Requirements: In a B-1 Business District, the following requirements
shall apply:
      1.   Floor area ratio shall not exceed 1.0.
      2.   Front yards shall not be required, unless any adjacent lot has a
front yard established, in which case the front yard shall be not less than the
average depth of the front yards of such adjacent lots.
      3.   Side yards shall not be required, unless any adjacent lot has a side
yard established, in which case the side yard shall be not less than the
average depth of the side yards of such adjacent lots.
      4.   Rear yard shall be not less than twenty feet (20') in depth.
      5.   Building height shall be not more than forty feet (40') or three (3)
levels, not including a basement, whichever is less.
   E.   Off Street Parking: In a B-1 Central Business District, off street
parking shall be governed by the following regulations:
      1.   For any use in said district except residential uses, one parking
space shall be required for each two hundred (200) square feet of floor area,
subject to the following exemptions:
         a.   For each use, there shall be an exemption for the first ten (10)
parking spaces otherwise required under this section.
         b.   For retail stores and facilities providing personal and
commercial services, the first two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet of
floor area on the first floor, and the first three thousand five hundred
(3,500) square feet of floor area on any other floor of an existing building,
shall be excluded from the floor area of such use in calculating the parking
requirement under this section.
         c.   For business and professional offices, the first one thousand
five hundred (1,500) square feet of floor area on the first floor, and the
first three thousand (3,000) square feet of floor area on any other floor of an
existing building, shall be excluded from the floor area of such use in
calculating the parking requirement under this section.
         d.   For any establishment providing for the sale and consumption on
the premises of food and refreshment, the first two thousand (2,000) square
feet of floor area on the first floor, and the first two thousand five hundred
(2,500) square feet of floor area on any other floor of an existing building,
shall be excluded from the floor area of such use in calculating the parking
requirement under this section.
         e.   For educational services, the first two thousand (2,000) square
feet of floor area on the first floor, and the first two thousand five hundred
(2,500) square feet of floor area on any other floor of an existing building,
shall be excluded from the floor area of such use in calculating the parking
requirement under this section.
      2.   For any residential use, one and one-half (11/2) parking spaces
shall be required per single-family unit, and shall be provided on the
property.
      3.   Upon the construction or erection of any new building, or a
substantial alteration, remodeling, or addition to an existing building, or any
change in the permitted use of an existing building, or any change in an
existing off street parking space, there shall be provided such off street
parking space as is required by the regulations set forth in this section.
      4.   All uses shall provide parking in accordance with the terms of this
chapter; however, in the event any use cannot provide the required parking
spaces on site, or (except for residential uses) within three hundred feet
(300') from said use, the owners of such use shall contribute two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00) for each required parking space not provided, to a special
fund created by the Village for the purpose of maintaining and improving
existing public parking, and of acquiring and constructing new parking
facilities, in the B-1 Central Business District. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 10-24,
10-21-2010; Ord. 11-21, 9-1-2011; Ord. 14-22, 5-1-2014; Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018;
Ord. 20-20, 6-4-2020; Ord. 23-09, 9-7-2023)
6-8-3: B-2 COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   A.   General Provisions: In a B-2 Community Business District, the following
shall apply:
      1.   Dwelling units or lodging rooms may be permitted above the ground
floor (i.e., on the 2nd or higher floor) on any parcel on which is otherwise
located a permitted or allowed special use.
         a.   Said dwelling unit shall be on the second floor of the building
or higher floor.
         b.   Yards shall be provided in accordance with the requirements for
R-4 General Residence Districts.
      2.   Dwelling units or lodging rooms shall not otherwise be permitted.
   B.   Permitted Uses: In a B-2 Business District, the following permitted
uses shall be allowed:
      All uses permitted in the B-1 District, pursuant to subsection
6-8-2B of this article.
      Antique shops.
      Bakeries which employ not more than eight (8) persons and where not more
than fifty percent (50%) of the floor area is devoted to processing.
      Banks and financial institutions.
      Bicycle stores for sales, rental or repair.
      Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined
in and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of
this Code.
      Camera and photographic supply stores.
      Carpet and rug stores.
      China and glassware stores.
      Coin and philatelic stores.
      Currency exchanges.
      Custom dressmaking.
      Department stores.
      Dry goods stores.
      Flower shops and conservatories.
      Furrier shops, including the incidental storage and conditioning of furs.
      Hotels, including dining and meeting rooms, provided that business uses,
other than those which are commonly incidental to a hotel business, shall not
occupy space fronting on a hotel hall or lobby.
      Laboratories for medical, dental research or testing purposes.
      Laundries of an automatic self-service or hand wash type, which employ
not more than two (2) persons in addition to one owner or manager, and use
laundry machines which shall not exceed ten (10) pounds' capacity.
      Loan offices.
      Locksmith shops.
      Mail order service stores.
      Physical culture and health services, gymnasiums, reducing salons, and
public baths.
      Post Offices.
      Sewing machine sales and services - household machines only.
      Wholesale establishments, provided that merchandise shall be limited to
samples only.
      Accessory uses to the above permitted uses. (1985 Code)
   C.   Special Uses: In a B-2 Community Business District, the following
special uses shall be allowed:
      All special uses allowed in the B-1 District, excluding those which are
otherwise permitted uses in the B-2 District under subsection B of this
section.
      Adult-use cannabis craft grower facility, when combined with an adult-use
cannabis dispensing facility, as allowed by law and subject to the provisions
of §§
4-26-1 et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis dispensing facility, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1 et seq. of the Village Code.
      Automobile accessory stores.
      Churches, convents, monasteries, theological schools, rectories and
parish houses.
      Dispensaries for medical cannabis, subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   No medical cannabis dispensing organization shall be located within
one thousand feet (1,000') of any of the following uses, whether or not located
within the Village:
         a. Any public or private preschool, or any elementary or secondary
school;
         b. Any publicly or privately operated daycare center, daycare home,
group daycare home or part day childcare facility; and
         c. Any residential zoning district, or any residential use.
      Provided, for purposes of this use, distances shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the nearest point
of the building in which the proposed or existing medical cannabis dispensary
is established to the nearest property line of a use or zoning district.
      Health centers.
      Municipal water filtration plants, pumping stations, reservoirs, and
sewage treatment plants.
      Parking lots and storage garages for motor vehicles under one and one-
half (11/2) tons' capacity only.
      Planned development on a tract of land not less than two and one-half
(21/2) acres in area.
      Public libraries.
      Radio and television towers.
      Recreational buildings and community centers. (1985 Code)
   D.   Requirements: In a B-2 Business District, the following requirements
shall apply:
      1.   Floor area ratio shall not exceed 1.8.
      2.   Front yard shall be not less than ten feet (10') in depth.
      3.   Side yards shall be as follows:
         a.   Where a side lot line coincides with a side lot line in an
adjacent residence district, a side yard shall be provided on the B-2 Business
District premises in accordance with the requirements under this chapter for
the residential use on the adjacent residential lot.
         b.   A side yard adjoining a street shall be not less than ten feet
(10') in width.
         c.   A side yard shall otherwise be not less than five feet (5').
      4.   Rear yard shall be not less than twenty feet (20') in depth.
      5.   Off street loading shall be provided in accordance with provisions
set forth in article XI of this chapter.
      6.   Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with provisions
set forth in article XI of this chapter.  (1985 Code) (Ord. 10-24, 10-21-2010;
amd. Ord. 14-21, 5-1-2014; Ord. 14-22, 5-1-2014; Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018; Ord.
20-09, 2-6-2020 ; Ord. 20-20, 6-4-2020 )
6-8-4: B-3 SERVICE BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   A.   General Conditions: In a B-3 Service Business District, the following
general conditions shall apply:
      1.   Each business establishment is restricted to not more than five
thousand (5,000) square feet of floor area.
      2.   Dwelling units or lodging rooms may be permitted above the ground
floor (i.e., on the 2nd or higher floor) on any parcel on which is otherwise
located a permitted or allowed special use.
         a.   Said dwelling unit shall be on the second floor of the building
or higher floor.
         b.   Yards shall be provided in accordance with the requirements for
R-4 General Residence Districts.
      3.   Dwelling units or lodging rooms shall not otherwise be permitted.
   B.   Permitted Uses: In a B-3 Business District, the only permitted uses
shall be as follows:
      All uses permitted in the B-2 Business District.
      Auction rooms.
      Automobile accessory stores.
      Automobile body repair shops.
      Automobile parking lots for retail sales.
      Automobile vehicle sales lots and other outdoor sales lots.
      Building material stores for retail sale, with accessory outside storage,
provided outside storage does not exceed sixteen feet (16') in height.
      Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined
in and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of
this Code.
      Caskets and casket supplies.
      Contractor and construction offices.
      Employment agencies.
      Exterminating shops.
      Feed stores.
      Fire stations.
      Greenhouses.
      Job printing shops using presses having beds of not more than fourteen
inches (14") and twenty inches (20").
      Libraries.
      Machinery and equipment shop for retail sales, provided:
      1.   No service, repair or reconditioning shall be performed therein; and
      2.   Storage of all machinery shall be within enclosed buildings.
      Mail order houses.
      Motels.
      Orthopedic and medical appliance stores for retail sales and rental,
provided no assembly or manufacture of such articles shall be performed
therein.
      Pet shops.
      Plumbing showrooms and shops.
      Police stations.
      Private clubs and meeting halls.
      Recording studios.
      Restaurants, including restaurants providing live entertainment and
dancing.
      Retail dry cleaning establishments which employ not more than five (5)
persons, and equipment used for dry cleaning purposes not to exceed one unit of
thirty (30) pounds' capacity.
      Secondhand stores and rummage shops.
      Telephone exchanges, microwave relay towers, telephone transmission
equipment buildings and electric distribution centers.
      Accessory uses to the above permitted uses.
   C.   Special Uses: In a B-3 Service Business District, the following special
uses shall be allowed:
      All special uses allowed in the B-2 District, excluding those which are
otherwise permitted uses in the B-3 District under subsection B of this
section.
      Animal hospitals.
      Automobile laundries.
      Dispensaries for medical cannabis, subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   No medical cannabis dispensing organization shall be located within
one thousand feet (1,000') of any of the following uses, whether or not located
within the Village:
         a. Any public or private preschool, or any elementary or secondary
school;
         b. Any publicly or privately operated daycare center, daycare home,
group daycare home or part day childcare facility; and
         c. Any residential zoning district, or any residential use.
      Provided, for purposes of this use, distances shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the nearest point
of the building in which the proposed or existing medical cannabis dispensary
is established to the nearest property line of a use or zoning district.
      Dog kennels.
      Outdoor amusement establishments, including golf driving ranges,
miniature golf courses, par 3 golf courses, kiddie parks, and other similar
amusement centers.
      Stadiums and other such places of amusement.
      Storage sheds.
      Taxidermist shops.
      Other service business uses, including coin operated dry cleaning
establishments.
   D.   Requirements: In a B-3 Service Business District, the following
requirements shall apply:
      1.   Floor area ratio shall not exceed 1.8.
      2.   All yards shall be as provided for in a B-2 District, under
subsection
6-8-3D of this article.
      3.   Off street loading shall be provided in accordance with provisions
set forth in article XI of this chapter.
      4.   Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with provisions
set forth in article XI of this chapter. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 97-2, 1-23-1997;
Ord. 14-21, 5-1-2014; Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018; Ord. 20-20, 6-4-2020; Ord. 23-09,
9-7-2023)
6-8-5: B-4 OFFICE BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   A.   General Purposes:
      1.   Provide for small scale office facilities offering personal services
of a professional nature which typically generate less vehicular traffic and
require less visibility and accessibility from major arterial streets than
other commercial uses.
      2.   Permit the development of small scale office facilities in areas
unsuitable for other commercial uses, or residential or industrial uses.
      3.   Provide for a buffer between residential uses and other commercial
or industrial uses.
   B.   Permitted Uses: In a B-4 Office Business District, the only permitted
uses shall be as follows:
   Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined in
and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of this
Code.
   Medical laboratories and pharmacies, limited to the sale of prescription
drugs, only when operated in conjunction with a medical office complex.
   Offices: business, bank, professional, and public, including lawyer,
physician, dentist, architect, professional engineer, accountant, real estate
and insurance agents, but expressly excluding massage therapy establishments.
   Temporary buildings for construction purposes, for a period not to exceed
the duration of such construction.
   Accessory uses to the above permitted uses, including off street parking and
off street loading.
   Other office uses substantially similar to the permitted uses in this
district as determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission after notice and
hearing as in the case of variations.
   C.   Special Uses: In the B-4 Office Business District, the following
special uses shall be allowed:
   Dance studios.
   Daycare centers.
   Drive-in banks.
   Libraries, branch.
   Massage therapy establishments.
   Off street parking.
   Planned unit developments for office purposes.
   Post Offices, branch.
   Public utility and public service uses, including:
      Electrical substation and distribution center.
      Telephone exchanges, microwave relay towers and telephone transmission
equipment buildings.
   Wind energy systems, as defined in and subject to the restrictions set forth
in chapter 5, article XVII of this Code.
   Accessory uses to the above special uses including off street parking and
off street loading.
   D.   Requirements: In a B-4 Office Business District, the following
requirements shall apply:
      1.   Floor area ratio shall not exceed 0.5.
      2.   Building height shall not be greater than thirty feet (30') above
grade.
      3.   All yards shall be as provided in the R-2 District, under
subsections
6-7-2C6 through C9 of this chapter; provided any rear yard shall be effectively
screened by a solid wall or fence; or by a densely planted, compacted hedge not
less than five feet (5') nor more than six feet (6') in height; or by any
combination of wall, fence and hedge.
      4.   Off street loading shall be provided in accordance with provisions
set forth in article XI of this chapter.
      5.   Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with provisions
set forth in article XI of this chapter. (Ord. 90-2, 4-5-1990; amd. Ord. 10-24,
10-21-2010; Ord. 11-20, 9-1-2011; Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018; Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
6-8-6: O-R OFFICE RESEARCH DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: This district is intended to encourage the development of high
quality corporate, business and professional offices and research laboratories,
together with complementary business and commercial uses in a campuslike
setting, at prominent locations in the vicinity of the Interstate I-90 and
Route 20 interchange area. (Ord. 92-10, 10-1-1992)
   B.   Permitted Uses: In an O-R Office Research District, the only permitted
uses shall be as follows:
      Advertising agency.
      Banks, savings and loans and similar financial institutions.
      Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined
in and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of
this Code.
      Business and professional offices.
      Business, commercial and language schools.
      Daycare center.
      Employment agencies.
      Health and recreation clubs.
      Hotel and motels, designed with lodging, dining, conference, exhibit and
training facilities.
      Personnel training center.
      Post Offices, not including distribution centers.
      Public park.
      Travel agency. (Ord. 92-10, 10-1-1992; amd. Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018)
   C.   Special Uses: In the O-R Office Research District, the following
special uses shall be allowed:
      Blueprinting, photostating, printing and photocopying.
      Bus passenger stations, not including bus terminal parking lots.
      Computer and data processing stores.
      Ground mounted Solar Energy Systems, as defined in and subject to the
restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of this Code.
      Massage therapy establishments.
      Public utility and service uses, including:
      Electric substations and distribution centers.
      Fire stations.
      Municipal water filtration plants, pumping stations, reservoirs and
sewage treatment plants.
      Police stations.
      Telephone exchanges, microwave relay towers, and telephone transmission
equipment buildings.
      Radio, television and recording studios.
      Research laboratories and facilities.
      Theme parks.
      Wind energy systems, as defined in and subject to the restrictions set
forth in chapter 5, article XVII of this Code. (Ord. 92-10, 10-1-1992; amd.
Ord. 10-24, 10-21-2010; Ord. 11-20, 9-1-2011; Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018)
   D.   Prohibited Uses: In an O-R Office Research District the following uses
shall be prohibited:
      Business machine sales and service.
      Currency exchanges.
      Dental and medical clinics, freestanding.
      Restaurants, taverns and cocktail lounges freestanding, not included in a
hotel or motel.
      Retail stores.
      Trailer coaches or mobile homes and mobile home parks.
   E.   Lot Area, Yard And Bulk Requirements:
1. Minimum lot area                      87,120 square feet (2 acres)
2. Minimum lot width                     225 feet
3. Minimum lot depth                     125 feet
4. Minimum front yard setback:            
 Adjacent to an arterial road           100 feet
 Adjacent to an internal or collector   50 feet
  road
5. Minimum rear yard setback:             
 Adjacent to an arterial road           100 feet
 Adjacent to an internal or collector   50 feet
  road
 Abutting an adjoining property         25 feet
6. Minimum side yard setback             25 feet each side
                                          The requirements for a corner side
7. Minimum corner side yard setback       yard shall be the same as the
                                          requirements for a front yard
8. Minimum yard abutting a residential   100 feet
or agricultural district
9. Maximum lot coverage (principal and   30 percent
accessory buildings)
10. Maximum impervious surface coverage  70 percent
11. Floor area ratio                     0.30
12. Height of principal use              4 stories, or 40 feet, whichever is
                                          lesser
13. Height of accessory use              1 story, or 15 feet, whichever is
                                          lesser
 
   F.   Off-Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
      1.   Compliance: Off-street parking and loading requirements shall be in
accordance with provisions set forth in article XI of this chapter.
      2.   Landbanking Of Required Parking Spaces:
         a.   The Village Board may, by special use permit, reduce the total
number of off-street parking spaces required to be paved, as required in
article XI of this chapter, for business and professional office uses in the O-
R District by up to fifteen percent (15%), subject to the following conditions:
            (1)   The Village Board shall have the right to direct and require
the property owner or his successor, at any time subsequent to the completion
of the development, to increase the number of paved parking spaces provided on
the property to serve the completed project, up to the maximum required by
article XI of this chapter.
            (2)   An application for a special use permit shall be accompanied
by alternate detailed parking plans. One plan shall show the full number of
parking spaces required by article XI of this chapter; the other plan shall
show the reduced number of paved parking spaces proposed to be provided, and
shall also show the landscaping treatment of areas proposed to be reserved to
satisfy the total number of parking spaces required by article XI of this
chapter. Both such plans shall show the location on the site of all parking
areas, and the exact number of parking spaces to be provided.
            (3)   The applicant shall file with the Village Clerk his/her
unconditional agreement and covenant that areas reserved for future parking
shall be maintained as landscaped open space until and unless required to be
used for off street parking in accordance with the approved special use permit.
The ordinance granting such permit (including both plans), together with such
agreement and covenant, shall be recorded with the Recorder of Deeds of Kane
County, Illinois.
      3.   Location Of Off Street Parking Areas:
         a.   Required off street parking spaces shall not be located in the
first fifty feet (50') of the front yard, nor in the first twenty five feet
(25') of required rear and side yards of lots in the O-R District. (Ord. 92-10,
10-1-1992)
6-8-7: HC HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the HC Highway Commercial District is to
provide for limited commercial uses which are oriented to the automobile and
truck traffic at prominent locations in the vicinity of the Interstate I-90 and
Route 20 interchange area. The regulations of this district are intended to
provide for highway oriented retail and service establishments which offer a
wide range of goods and services in locations which abut or front, and have
access to, either directly or via frontage roads, heavily traveled major
arterial roadways.
   B.   Land Use Regulations:
      1.   General Standards: Uses permitted in the HC District are subject to
the following standards:
         a.   Enclosed Buildings: All business activity and servicing shall
take place within completely enclosed buildings unless otherwise specified. All
storage of property, except of motor vehicles in operable conditions, shall be
in completely enclosed buildings or structures.
         b.   Accessory Uses: Outdoor accessory uses may be permitted by the
Village Board in conformance with following requirements:
            (1)   The permitted outdoor accessory use shall be for the purpose
of direct retail sales only, not for storage;
            (2)   The area of the permitted outdoor accessory use may not
exceed ten percent (10%) of the indoor gross floor area of the related
principal use on the same premises.
         c.   Off Street Loading And Parking: Off street loading and parking
facilities for the storage of motor vehicles may be unenclosed throughout the
HC District. Such unenclosed areas shall be effectively screened by a solid
wall or fence (including solid entrance and exit gates) not less than six feet
(6') nor more than eight feet (8') in height, or a landscaped buffer planted to
effectively screen all parking and loading areas. (Ord. 92-10, 10-1-1992)
   C.   Permitted Uses: In a Highway Commercial District, the following
permitted uses shall be allowed:
   Automobile and truck sales.
   Automobile parts and accessory stores.
   Bakeries, which employ not more than eight (8) persons and where not more
than fifty percent (50%) of the floor area is devoted to processing.
   Banks, savings and loans and similar financial institutions.
   Brew pubs.
   Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined in
and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of this
Code.
   Bus passenger stations, not including bus terminal parking lots.
   Business machine sales and service.
   Computer and data processing stores.
   Convenience food stores.
   Currency exchanges.
   Employment agencies.
   Establishments for machinery and appliance repair.
   Feed stores.
   Gasoline sales - retail, including vehicle repair.
   General retail, with a minimum of seventy five percent (75%) of the gross
floor area devoted to direct retail sales.
   Greenhouses, retail.
   Health and recreation clubs.
   Hotels and motels, including dining and meeting rooms.
   Kennels and animal hospitals.
   Microbreweries.
   Public park.
   Public utility and service uses, including:
      Electric substations and distribution centers.
      Fire stations.
      Municipal water filtration plants, pumping stations, reservoirs and
sewage treatment plants.
      Police stations.
      Telephone exchanges, microwave relay towers and telephone transmission
equipment buildings.
   Restaurant: fast food.
   Restaurants, with cocktail lounges as an accessory use.
   D.   Special Uses: In a Highway Commercial District, the following special
uses shall be allowed:
   Adult-use cannabis craft grower facility, when combined with an adult-use
cannabis dispensing facility, as allowed by law and subject to the provisions
of §§
4-26-1 et seq. of the Village Code.
   Adult-use cannabis dispensing facility, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1 et seq. of the Village Code.
   Automobile laundries.
   Automobile service stations, including retail gasoline sales and vehicle
repair.
   Automobile/truck stops.
   Blueprinting, photostating, printing and photocopying.
   Building materials sales and storage.
   Daycare center.
   Dispensaries for medical cannabis, subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   No medical cannabis dispensing organization shall be located within
one thousand feet (1,000') of any of the following uses, whether or not located
within the Village:
         a.   Any public or private preschool, or any elementary or secondary
school;
         b.   Any publicly or privately operated daycare center, daycare home,
group daycare home or part day childcare facility; and
         c.   Any residential zoning district, or any residential use.
      Provided, for purposes of this use, distances shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the nearest point
of the building in which the proposed or existing medical cannabis dispensary
is established to the nearest property line of a use or zoning district.
   Dry cleaning establishments.
   Outdoor amusement establishments, including golf driving ranges, miniature
golf courses, kiddie parks and other similar amusement centers.
   Post Offices, including distribution centers.
   Wind energy systems, as defined in and subject to the restrictions set forth
in chapter 5, article XVII of this Code.
   E.   Prohibited Uses: In a Highway Commercial District, the following uses
shall be prohibited:
   Cartage and express facilities.
   Chemical processing and production.
   Dental and medical clinics.
   Mail order houses.
   Manufacturing facilities.
   Personnel training center.
   Professional offices.
   Radio, television and recording studios.
   Research laboratories and facilities.
   Trailer coaches or mobile homes and mobile home parks.
   Warehousing, storage and distribution facilities.
   Woodworking and wood products.
   F.   Lot Area, Yard And Bulk Requirements:
1. Minimum lot area                    10,000 square feet
2. Minimum lot width                   75 feet
3. Minimum lot depth                   125 feet
4. Minimum front yard setback:          
 Adjacent to an arterial road         40 feet
 Adjacent to an internal or collector 25 feet
  road
5. Minimum rear yard setback:           
 Adjacent to an arterial road         40 feet
 Adjacent to an internal or collector 10 feet
  road
 Abutting an adjoining property       10 feet
6. Minimum side yard setback           10 feet each side
                                       The requirements for a corner side yard
7. Minimum corner side yard setback    shall be the same as the requirements
                                       for a front yard
8. Minimum yard abutting a residential 20 feet
or agricultural district
9. Maximum building lot coverage       50 percent
(principal and accessory buildings)
10. Maximum building and parking       90 percent
impervious surface coverage
11. Floor area ratio                   1.8
12. Height of principal use            3 stories, or 35 feet, whichever is
                                       greater
13. Height of accessory use            1 story, or 15 feet, whichever is
                                       greater
 
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
      1.   Compliance: Off street parking and loading requirements shall be
provided in accordance with provisions set forth in article XI of this chapter.
      2.   Location Of Off Street Parking Areas:
         a.   Off street parking spaces shall not be located in the first
fifteen feet (15') of the required front yard when adjacent to a collector
road, nor in the first twenty five feet (25') of the front yard when adjacent
to an arterial road.
         b.   Off street parking spaces are prohibited in the required side
yards of lots in the HC District.
         c.   Off street parking spaces shall not be prohibited in the first
fifteen feet (15') of the required rear yard when adjacent to a collector
street; in the first twenty five feet (25') of the required rear yard when
adjacent of an arterial road; nor in the first ten feet (10') of the required
rear yard when adjacent to commercial property. (Ord. 92-10, 10-1-1992; amd.
Ord. 11-20, 9-1-2011; Ord. 14-21, 5-1-2014; Ord. 14-22, 5-1-2014; Ord. 18-38,
11-1-2018; Ord. 20-09, 2-6-2020; Ord. 22-24, 9-15-2022)
6-8-8: RB RURAL BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose is to provide for limited business and service
uses which are consistent and compatible with the historic commercial
crossroads area at Allen Road and Route 20.
   B.   Land Use Regulations:
      1.   General Standards: Uses permitted in the RB District are subject to
the following standards:
         a.   All business activity and servicing shall take place within
completely enclosed buildings unless otherwise specified. All storage of
property, except of motor vehicles in operable condition, shall be in
completely enclosed buildings or structures.
         b.   Off street loading and parking facilities for the storage of
motor vehicles may be unenclosed throughout the RB District. Such unenclosed
areas shall be effectively screened by a solid wall or fence (including solid
entrance and exit gates) not less than six feet (6') nor more than eight feet
(8') in height, or a landscaped buffer planted to effectively screen all
parking and loading areas. (Ord. 92-10, 10-1-1992)
   C.   Permitted Uses: In the Rural Business District, the only permitted uses
shall be as follows:
      Auction rooms.
      Automobile accessory stores.
      Automobile body repair shops.
      Automobile parking lots and storage garages.
      Building material stores for retail sale, with accessory outside storage,
provided outside storage does not exceed sixteen feet (16') in height.
      Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined
in and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of
this Code.
      Caskets and casket supplies.
      Contractor and construction offices.
      Establishments for machinery and appliance repair.
      Exterminating shops.
      Farm implement sales and service centers.
      Feed stores.
      Greenhouses.
      Kennels and animal hospitals.
      Private clubs and meeting halls.
      Public garages.
      Public utility and service uses, including:
      Electrical substations and distribution centers.
      Fire stations.
      Municipal water filtration plants, pumping stations, reservoirs and
sewage treatment plants.
      Personnel training center.
      Police stations.
      Telephone exchanges, microwave relay towers and telephone transmission
equipment buildings.
      Recording studios.
      Retail gasoline sales, including vehicle repair.
      Secondhand stores and rummage shops.
      Accessory uses to the above permitted uses. (Ord. 92-10, 10-1-1992; amd.
Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018)
   D.   Special Uses: In a Rural Business District, the following may be
allowed as special uses:
      Dry cleaning establishments.
      Ground mounted Solar Energy Systems, as defined in and subject to the
restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of this Code.
      Outdoor amusement establishments, including golf driving ranges,
miniature golf courses, kiddie parks and other similar amusement centers.
      Retail gasoline sales, including vehicle repair and automobile laundries
and accessory uses.
      Towing services, including vehicle repair.
      Wind energy systems, as defined in and subject to the restrictions set
forth in chapter 5, article XVII of this Code. (Ord. 92-10, 10-1-1992; amd.
Ord. 11-20, 9-1-2011; Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018)
   E.   Prohibited Uses: In a Rural Business District, the following uses shall
be prohibited:
      Business machine sales and service.
      Cartage and express facilities.
      Chemical processing and production.
      Daycare center.
      Dental and medical clinics.
      Mail order houses.
      Manufacturing facilities.
      Personnel training center.
      Post Offices.
      Professional offices.
      Radio, television and recording studios.
      Research laboratories and facilities.
      Trailer coaches or mobile homes and mobile home parks.
      Warehousing, storage and distribution facilities.
      Woodworking and wood products.
   F.   Lot Area, Yard And Bulk Requirements:
1. Minimum lot area                      10,000 square feet
2. Minimum lot width                     75 feet
3. Minimum lot depth                     125 feet
4. Minimum front yard setback:
 Adjacent to an arterial road           40 feet
 Adjacent to an internal or collector   25 feet
  road
5. Minimum rear yard setback:             
 Adjacent to an arterial road           40 feet
 Adjacent to an internal or collector   25 feet
  road
 Abutting an adjoining property         25 feet
6. Minimum side yard setback             10 feet each side
                                          The requirements for a corner side
7. Minimum corner side yard setback      yard shall be the same as the
                                          requirements for a front yard
8. Minimum yard abutting a residential   50 feet
or agricultural district
9. Maximum lot coverage (principal and   50 percent
accessory buildings)
10. Maximum impervious surface coverage  70 percent
11. Floor area ratio                     0.25
12. Height of principal use              2 stories, or 30 feet, whichever is
                                          lesser
13. Height of accessory use              1 story, or 15 feet, whichever is
                                          lesser
 
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
      1.   Off Street Parking And Loading: Off street parking and loading
requirements shall be provided in accordance with provisions set forth in
article XI of this chapter.
      2.   Location Of Off Street Parking Areas:
         a.   Required off street parking spaces shall not be located in the
first ten feet (10') of the front yard.
         b.   Parking is prohibited in the required rear and side yards of lots
in the RB District. (Ord. 92-10, 10-1-1992)
6-8-9: REC RECREATIONAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the REC Recreational District is to provide for
various recreational uses not otherwise allowed in the Village of Hampshire,
and to encourage the development of recreational uses at designated locations
in the Village having access to public highways and/or arterial roadways.
   B.   Land Use Regulations:
      1.   General Standards: Uses permitted in the REC District are subject to
the following standards:
         a.   All business activity and servicing shall take place within
completely enclosed buildings unless otherwise specified. All storage of
property, except of motor vehicles in operable condition, shall be in
completely enclosed buildings or structures.
         b.   All outdoor uses, except for public uses, must be effectively
screened from any abutting residential property with appropriate landscaping.
         c.   Reserved.
         d.   Off Street Loading And Parking:
            (1)   Off street loading and parking facilities may be unenclosed
throughout the REC District. Such unenclosed areas shall be effectively
screened by a solid wall or fence (including solid entrance and exit gates) not
less than six feet (6') nor more than eight feet (8') in height, or a
landscaped buffer planted to effectively screen such parking and loading areas.
            (2)   The number of parking spaces required for any permitted use
in the District shall be set in accordance with the requirements of section
6-11-2 of this Code, or, for any particular use not identified therein, one (1)
space per four (4) persons in designed capacity or one (1) space per one
thousand (1,000) square feet of lot area, whichever is greater; or for any
special use, by the special use review and approval process.
   C.   Permitted Uses: In the REC District, the only permitted uses shall be
as follows:
         Auditoriums, exhibition halls, banquet facilities, and meeting rooms.
         Country clubs.
         Cemeteries.
         Fitness centers/health spas.
         Libraries.
         Movie theaters and playhouses - indoor.
         Museums.
         Open space - public or private - including but not limited to bicycle
paths, hiking trails, interpretive trails, or passive open space.
         Parks and recreation areas - publicly owned and/or operated.
         Playgrounds - with suitable play equipment; and including tot lots.
         Skating rinks.
         Studios for professional work or teaching of any form of the arts,
including but not limited to photography, music, drama, dance, cooking, karate,
computer use, yoga, and other similar uses.
         Swimming pools - indoor and outdoor.
         Wedding venues - indoor and outdoor wedding venues.
         Accessory uses to permitted uses or approved special uses, including
but not limited to administrative structures, restroom facilities, concession
facilities, activity buildings, boat ramps and docks, club houses, and other
similar uses.
   D.   Special Uses: In a REC District, the following may be allowed as
special uses:
      Dog parks.
      Horseback riding stables and trails.
      Other indoor and outdoor event venues, including but not limited to
stadiums, amphitheaters, and bandshells.
      Outdoor amusement establishments, water parks, miniature golf courses,
kiddie parks, and similar amusement centers.
      Recreational camping for temporary use only, including motor coach parks.
      Solar energy systems, as defined in and subject to the restrictions set
forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of this Code.
      Sports and athletic facilities - indoor and outdoor - including but not
limited to fields for baseball, football, or soccer; basketball courts; tennis
courts, and other similar uses.
      Wind energy systems, as defined in and subject to the restrictions set
forth in chapter 5, article XVII of this Code.
      Other recreational uses deemed by the Planning and Zoning Commission to
be of the same general character as those listed herein.
   E.   Lot Area, Yard, And Bulk Requirements:
      1.   Minimum lot area: twenty five thousand (25,000) square feet.
      2.   Minimum lot width: one hundred fifty feet (150').
      3.   Minimum lot depth: one hundred fifty feet (150').
      4.   Minimum yard setback:
         a.   Adjacent to a street or road: one hundred feet (100').
         b.   Abutting an adjoining property: twenty five feet (25').
      5.   Maximum lot coverage: fifty percent (50%).
      6.   Maximum impervious surface coverage: seventy percent (70%).
      7.   Floor area ratio: 0.25.
      8.   Height of principal use: lesser of three (3) stories or fifty feet
(50').
      9.   Height of accessory use: lesser of one story or fifteen feet (15').
(Ord. 21-45, 11-18-2021; amd. Ord. 24-03, 1-18-2024)
ARTICLE IX
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-9-1: General Provisions
6-9-2: M-1 Restricted Industrial District Requirements
6-9-3: M-2 General Industrial District Requirements
6-9-4: M-3 Industrial District Requirements
6-9-5: O-M Office And Restricted Manufacturing District
6-9-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   No lot, parcel, or tract of land shall be used, and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered, or remodeled for any of the following
uses:
      Acid production.
      Arsenals/fireworks and explosives manufacture and storage.
      Asbestos or asbestos products manufacture.
      Asphalt products manufacture or processing.
      Foundries, forge plants, or smelting.
      Fur processing.
      Grain storage and processing.
      Junkyards and automobile wrecking yards.
      Laboratories for research and testing of hazardous or obnoxious
materials.
      Leather tanning, processing, or rendering.
      Nitrocellulose products.
      Ore reduction.
      Paint products manufacture.
      Paper products manufacture.
      Plastics/linoleum manufacture.
      Plating processes.
      Rubber manufacturing and processing.
      Soap manufacture.
      Stockyards/slaughtering/rendering.
      Stone products manufacture/mining.
      Tank farms/bulk storage of hazardous liquids as determined by NFPA. (Ord.
98-14, 7-16-1998; amd. Ord. 04-17, 6-17-2004)
6-9-2: M-1 RESTRICTED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Restrictions:
      1.   The M-1 restricted industrial district is designed to provide an
environment suitable for industrial activities that do not create nuisances or
hazards, or that require a pleasant, hazard and nuisance free environment.
      2.   Uses allowed in the M-1 district are subject to the following
conditions:
         a.   All businesses, servicing, or processing functions, except off
street parking and off street loading, shall be conducted within completely
enclosed buildings, unless otherwise indicated hereinafter.
         b.   All storage of property, except motor vehicles in operable
condition, shall be within completely enclosed buildings or effectively
screened by a solid wall or fence (including solid entrance and exit gates) not
less than six feet (6') in height.
   B.   Permitted Uses: In an M-1 Industrial District, the following uses shall
be permitted:
      Accessory uses, incidental to and on the same lot as the principal use.
      Bedding assembly.
      Bicycle manufacture.
      Bottling companies.
      Brew pubs.
      Building materials sales and storage (wholesale).
      Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined
in and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of
this Code.
      Ice sales and production.
      Laundries/linen uniform supply.
      Leather product assembly.
      Light machinery production of appliances, business machines, and the
like.
      Lithographing, copying, blueprinting, and commercial art.
      Mail order houses.
      Musical, technical, and precision instrument manufacture excluding the
use of nuclear material.
      Parking lots, other than accessory lots, subject to the provisions of
article XI of this chapter.
      Parks and playgrounds incidental to the principal use.
      Postal distribution facilities.
      Printing and publishing.
      Recreation buildings and uses incidental to the principal use.
      Restaurants.
      Sporting goods manufacture.
      Tattoo parlors, and body piercing establishments, subject to the
following restrictions:
      1.   Licensing: Any tattoo parlor, or body piercing establishment, and
all employees and agents related thereto, shall conform to and satisfy all
applicable State of Illinois and any other governmental licensing requirements.
      2.   Distancing Requirements: Any tattoo parlor or body piercing
establishment shall be located not less than one thousand feet (1,000') from a
residence district; and in addition not less than one thousand feet (1,000')
from any existing residence dwelling, daycare establishment, public park or
playground, and any school or place of worship. For purposes of this
subsection, distance shall be measured in a straight line from the boundary
line of the lot on which the use is located or is to be located, to the nearest
applicable zoning district boundary line, or to the lot line of any existing
residence dwelling, daycare establishment, public park or playground, or
school, or place of worship, as the case may be.
      Trade schools.
      Wearing apparel manufacture.
      Woodworking.
   C.   Special Uses: In the M-1 Restricted Industrial District, the only
special uses shall be as follows:
      Adult-use cannabis craft grower facility, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code. When combined with an adult-use cannabis
dispensing facility and/or an adult-use cannabis processing facility, as
allowed by law and subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis cultivation center facility, subject to the provisions
of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis dispensing facility, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis infuser facility, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis processing facility, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis transporting facility, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1  et. seq. of the Village Code.
      Animal crematory.
      Collection containers for secondhand items.
      Dispensaries for medical cannabis, subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   No medical cannabis dispensing organization shall be located within
one thousand feet (1,000') of any of the following uses, whether or not located
within the Village:
         a. Any public or private preschool, or any elementary or secondary
school;
         b. Any publicly or privately operated daycare center, daycare home,
group daycare home or part day childcare facility; and
         c. Any residential zoning district, or any residential use.
      Provided, for purposes of this use, distances shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the nearest point
of the building in which the proposed or existing medical cannabis dispensary
is established to the nearest property line of a use or zoning district.
      Ground mounted Solar Energy Systems, as defined in and subject to the
restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of this Code.
      Microbreweries.
      Planned developments.
      Public utility and service uses, including:
      Electric substations and distribution centers.
      Municipal water filtration plants, pumping stations, reservoirs, and
sewage treatment plants.
      Radio and television stations and towers.
      Railroad rights-of-way.
      Telephone exchanges, microwave towers, and telephone transmission
equipment buildings.
      Transit and public transportation facilities including shelters,
terminals, parking areas, and service buildings relating thereto.
      Recycling centers.
      Stadiums, auditoriums, and arenas (indoor or outdoor).
      Wind energy systems, as defined in and subject to the restrictions set
forth in chapter 5, article XVII of this Code.
      Other manufacturing, processing, and storage uses determined by the
Planning and Zoning Commission to be of the same general character as the uses
permitted in this section, and found not to be obnoxious, unhealthful, or
offensive by reason of the potential emission or transmission of noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, odors, toxic or noxious matter, glare, or heat.
   D.   General Requirements: In an M-1 Industrial District, the following
general requirements shall also apply:
      1.   Floor area ratio shall not exceed 0.8.
      2.   Yards shall be provided as follows:
         a.   Front yard shall not be less than forty feet (40') in depth.
         b.   Side yards shall not be less than twenty feet (20') in width,
except a side yard abutting a street shall be not less than forty feet (40') in
depth.
         c.   Rear yard shall not be less than twenty feet (20') in depth,
except a rear yard abutting an alley or railroad right- of-way may be reduced
to ten feet (10') in depth.
      3.   Off street loading shall be provided in accordance with provisions
set forth in article XI of this chapter.
      4.   Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with provisions
set forth in article XI of this chapter. (Ord. 98-14, 7-16-1998; amd. Ord. 04-
17, 6-17-2004; Ord. 11-20, 9-1-2011; Ord. 14-20, 5-1-2014; Ord. 14-21, 5-1-
2014; Ord. 14-22, 5-1-2014; Ord. 14-23, 5-1-2014; Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018; Ord.
20-09, 2-6-2020; Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
6-9-3: M-2 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   The M-2 General Industrial District is designed to accommodate those
industrial activities which may produce mild nuisances or hazards in areas that
are relatively remote from residential developments.
      2.   All uses allowed in the M-2 District are subject to the following
conditions:
         a.   Dwelling units and lodging rooms are not permitted.
         b.   All business, servicing, or processing except of motor vehicles
in operable condition shall be within completely enclosed buildings.
         c.   All storage except of motor vehicles in operable condition, shall
be within completely enclosed buildings or effectively screened by a solid wall
or fence (including solid entrance and exit gates) not less than six feet (6')
nor more than eight feet (8') in height. (Ord. 98-14, 7-16-1998)
   B.   Permitted Uses: In an M-2 Industrial District, the following uses shall
be permitted:
      Any use permitted in the M-1 District.
      Adult entertainment establishment, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Distancing Requirements: Any adult entertainment establishment shall
be located not less than one thousand feet (1,000') from a highway commercial,
office/manufacturing, business district, or residence district; and not less
than one thousand feet (1,000') from any existing residence dwelling, daycare
service, public park, school, place of worship or playground.
      2.   Dispersion: An adult entertainment establishment shall not be
located less than one thousand feet (1,000') from another "adult entertainment
establishment".
      3.   Measurement: For purposes of subsection 1 of this use, distance
shall be measured in a straight line from the lot boundary line of the lot on
which is located the adult entertainment establishment to the nearest
applicable zoning district boundary line, or to the lot boundary line of any
existing residence dwelling, daycare service, public park, school, place of
worship or playground, as the case may be; and for purposes of subsection 2 of
this use, the distance shall be measured at the shortest interval, measured
from lot boundary line to lot boundary line, between the two (2) lots on which
an adult entertainment establishment is located.
      Bakeries, wholesale manufacture.
      Brew pubs.
      Brooms and brush manufacture.
      Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined
in and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of
this Code.
      Cartage and express facilities.
      Cloth products manufacture.
      Electropolishing.
      Greenhouses for wholesale.
      Internal combustion engine assembly.
      Machine shop.
      Metal stamping.
      Motor vehicle body repair, painting, and engine rebuilding shops.
      Multifaceted contractor's yards of all types.
      Parks and playgrounds incidental to the principal use.
      Physical and recreational sports centers, including sports and recreation
instruction.
      Plastic fabrication.
      Recreation buildings incidental to the principal use.
      Restaurants.
      Tattoo parlors, and body piercing establishments, subject to the
following restrictions:
      1.   Licensing: Any tattoo parlor, or body piercing establishment, and
all employees and agents related thereto, shall conform to and satisfy all
applicable State of Illinois and any other governmental licensing requirements.
      2.   Distancing Requirements: Any tattoo parlor or body piercing
establishment shall be located not less than one thousand feet (1,000') from a
residence district; and in addition not less than one thousand feet (1,000')
from any existing residence dwelling, daycare establishment, public park or
playground, and any school or place of worship. For purposes of this
subsection, distance shall be measured in a straight line from the boundary
line of the lot on which the use is located or is to be located, to the nearest
applicable zoning district boundary line, or to the lot line of any existing
residence dwelling, daycare service, public park or playground, or school, or
place of worship, as the case may be.
      Warehousing, storage, and distribution facilities.
      Wood products manufacture.
   C.   Special Uses: In an M-2 Industrial District, the following special uses
shall be allowed:
      Any use allowed as a special use in the M-1 District, unless already
permitted in subsection B of this section.
      Adult-use cannabis craft grower facilities, subject to the provisions of
§§ 4-26-1 et seq. of the Village Code. When combined with an adult-use cannabis
dispensing facility and/or an adult-use cannabis processing facility, as
allowed by law and subject to the provisions of §§ 4-26-1 et seq. of the
Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis cultivation center facilities, subject to the
provisions of §§ 4-26-1 et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis dispensing facilities, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1 et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis infuser facilities, subject to the provisions of §§ 4-
26-1 et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis processing facilities, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1 et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis transporting facilities, subject to the provisions of
§§ 4-26-1 et seq. of the Village Code.
      Automobile Sales Lots
      Dispensaries for medical cannabis, subject to the following restrictions:
      1.    No medical cannabis dispensing organization shall be located within
one thousand feet (1,000') of any of the following uses, whether or not located
within the Village:
         a.   Any public or private preschool, or any elementary or secondary
school;
         b.   Any publicly or privately operated daycare center, daycare home,
group daycare home or part day childcare facility; and
         c.   Any residential zoning district, or any residential use.
         Provided, for purposes of this use, distances shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the nearest point
of the building in which the proposed or existing medical cannabis dispensary
is established to the nearest property line of a use or zoning district.
      Graphite products production.
      Ground mounted Solar Energy Systems, as defined in and subject to the
restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of this Code.
      Kennels and animal hospitals.
      Microbreweries.
      Orthopedic and medical appliance manufacture.
      Planned developments, industrial (M-1, M-2, O-M).
      Rope, cord, twine, and canvas manufacture.
      Other manufacturing, processing, and storage uses determined by the
Planning and Zoning Commission to be of the same general character as the uses
permitted in this section, and found not to be obnoxious, unhealthful, or
offensive by reason of the potential emission or transmission of noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, odors, toxic or noxious matter, glare, or heat.
   D.   Requirements: In an M-2 Industrial District, the following requirements
shall apply:
      1.   Floor area ratio shall not exceed 1.5.
      2.   Yards shall be in accordance with the provisions set forth in
subsection
6-9-2D2 of this article governing yards in the M-1 Industrial District.
      3.   Off street loading shall be in accordance with provisions set forth
in article XI of this chapter.
      4.   Off street parking shall be in accordance with provisions set forth
in article XI of this chapter.
(Ord. 98-14, 7-16-1998; amd. Ord. 02-10, 5-16-2002; Ord. 06-14, 4-20-2006; Ord.
14-20, 5-1-2014; Ord. 14-21, 5-1-2014; Ord. 14-22, 5-1-2014; Ord. 16-15, 6-2-
2016; Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018; Ord. 20-09, 2-6-2020; Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021; Ord.
24-44, 12-5-2024)
6-9-4: M-3 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   The M-3 Industrial District is designed to accommodate those
industrial activities which may produce nuisances or hazards in areas that are
remote from residential and business developments.
      2.   All uses allowed in the M-3 District are subject to the following
conditions:
         a.   Dwelling units and lodging rooms are not permitted.
         b.   All business, servicing, or processing shall be conducted within
completely enclosed buildings.
         c.   All storage except of motor vehicles in operable condition, shall
be within completely enclosed buildings or effectively screened by a solid wall
or fence (including solid entrance and exit gates) not less than six feet (6')
nor more than eight feet (8') in height.
   B.   Permitted Uses: In an M-3 Industrial District, the following uses shall
be permitted:
      Any use permitted in the M-2 Industrial District.
      Air/railroad terminals.
      Automobile and truck assembly.
      Brew pubs.
      Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined
in and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of
this Code.
      Carpet manufacturing.
      Dry cleaning establishments, with limitation on number of employees.
      Feed and seed sales.
      Glass products from previously manufactured glass.
      Insulating materials manufacture.
      Restaurants.
      Tattoo parlors, and body piercing establishments, subject to the
following restrictions:
      1.   Licensing: Any tattoo parlor, or body piercing establishment, and
all employees and agents related thereto, shall conform to and satisfy all
applicable State of Illinois and any other governmental licensing requirements.
      2.   Distancing Requirements: Any tattoo parlor or body piercing
establishment shall be located not less than one thousand feet (1,000') from a
residence district; and in addition not less than one thousand feet (1,000')
from any existing residence dwelling, daycare establishment, public park or
playground, and any school, or place of worship. For purposes of this
subsection, distance shall be measured in a straight line from the boundary
line of the lot on which the use is located or is to be located, to the nearest
applicable zoning district boundary line, or to the lot line of any existing
residence dwelling, daycare service, public park or playground, or school, or
place of worship, as the case may be.
      Woodworking and wood products manufacture.
   C.   Special Uses: In an M-3 Restricted Industrial District, the following
special uses shall be allowed:
      Any use allowed as a special use in the M-2 Industrial District, unless
permitted in subsection B of this section.
      Abrasive manufacture.
      Adult-use cannabis craft grower facility, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code, when combined with an adult-use cannabis
dispensing facility and/or an adult-use cannabis processing facility, as
allowed by law and subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis cultivation center facility, subject to the provisions
of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis dispensing facility, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis infuser facility, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis processing facility, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis transporting facility, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code.
      Brick and structural clay products manufacture.
      Ceramic products manufacture (pottery and glazed material).
      Chemical processing and products.
      Concrete mixing plants.
      Dispensaries for medical cannabis, subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   No medical cannabis dispensing organization shall be located within
one thousand feet (1,000') of any of the following uses, whether or not located
within the Village:
         a.    Any public or private preschool, or any elementary or secondary
school;
         b.   Any publicly or privately operated daycare center, daycare home,
group daycare home or part day childcare facility; and
         c.   Any residential zoning district, or any residential use.
         Provided, for purposes of this use, distances shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the nearest point
of the building in which the proposed or existing medical cannabis dispensary
is established to the nearest property line of a use or zoning district.
      Food manufacture, packaging, and processing.
      Ground mounted Solar Energy Systems, as defined in and subject to the
restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of this Code.
      Heavy machinery manufacture.
      Microbreweries.
      Recycling processing centers.
      Other manufacturing, processing, and storage uses determined by the
Planning and Zoning Commission to be of the same general character as the uses
permitted in this section, and found not to be obnoxious, unhealthful, or
offensive by reason of the potential emission or transmission of noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, odors, toxic or noxious matter, glare, or heat.
   D.   Requirements: In an M-3 Industrial District, the following requirements
shall apply:
      1.   Floor area ratio shall not exceed 1.5.
      2.   Yards shall be in accordance with the provisions set forth in
subsection 6-9-2D2 of this article governing yards in an M-1 Industrial
District.
      3.   Off street loading shall be in accordance with provisions set forth
in article XI of this chapter.
      4.   Off street parking shall be in accordance with provisions set forth
in article XI of this chapter. (Ord. 98-14, 7-16-1998; amd. Ord. 14-20, 5-1-
2014; Ord. 14-21, 5-1-2014; Ord. 14-22, 5-1-2014; Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018; Ord.
20-09, 2-6-2020; Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
6-9-5: O-M OFFICE AND RESTRICTED MANUFACTURING DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The regulations of this district are intended to encourage a
mixture of office, research, warehouse, and restricted manufacturing
activities, together with complementary business and commercial uses in high
quality campuslike settings.
   B.   Land Use Regulations:
      1.   General Standards:
         a.   Uses permitted in the O-M District are subject to the following
standards:
            (1)   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing,
repair, or storage of goods, materials, or products shall take place without
creating disturbing influences to the use and occupancy of adjoining
properties.
            (2)   All business, production, servicing, and processing shall
take place within completely enclosed buildings unless otherwise specified. All
storage of property, except of motor vehicles in operable condition, shall be
in completely enclosed buildings or structures.
            (3)   Off street loading and parking facilities for the storage of
motor vehicles may be unenclosed throughout the O-M District. Such unenclosed
areas shall be effectively screened by a solid wall or fence (including solid
entrance and exit gates) not less than six feet (6') nor more than eight feet
(8') in height, or a landscaped buffer planted to effectively screen all
parking and loading areas.
   C.   Permitted Uses: In an O-M Office Manufacturing District, the following
uses shall be permitted:
      Advertising agency.
      Banks, savings and loans, and similar financial institutions.
      Blueprinting, photostating, printing, and photocopying.
      Brew pubs.
      Building-mounted and building-integrated Solar Energy Systems, as defined
in and subject to the restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of
this Code.
      Bus passenger stations, not including bus terminal parking lots.
      Business and professional offices.
      Business machine sales and service.
      Computer and data processing.
      Currency exchanges.
      Daycare center.
      Dental and medical clinics.
      Employment agencies.
      Health and recreation clubs.
      Hotels/motels.
      Mail order houses.
      Offices for commercial services, including advertising, radio, TV,
newspapers, and printing.
      Post Offices, including distribution centers.
      Public parks.
      Radio, television, and recording studios.
      Research laboratories and facilities.
      Restaurants.
      Retail stores.
      Tattoo parlors, and body piercing establishments, subject to the
following restrictions:
      1.   Licensing: Any tattoo parlor, or body piercing establishment, and
all employees and agents related thereto, shall conform to and satisfy all
applicable State of Illinois and any other governmental licensing requirements.
      2.   Distancing Requirements: Any tattoo parlor or body piercing
establishment shall be located not less than one thousand feet (1,000') from a
residence district; and in addition not less than one thousand feet (1,000')
from any existing residence dwelling, daycare establishment, public park or
playground, and any school, or place of worship. For purposes of this
subsection, distance shall be measured in a straight line from the boundary
line of the lot on which the use is located or is to be located, to the nearest
applicable zoning district boundary line, or to the lot line of any existing
residence dwelling, daycare service, public park or playground, or school, or
place of worship, as the case may be.
      Warehousing, storage, and distribution facilities.
      Woodworking and wood products assembly.
   D.   Special Uses: In an O-M Office Manufacturing District, the following
special uses shall be allowed:
      Adult-use cannabis craft grower facility, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code. When combined with an adult-use cannabis
dispensing facility and/or an adult-use cannabis processing facility, as
allowed by law and subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis cultivation center facility, subject to the provisions
of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis infuser facility, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis processing facility, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code.
      Adult-use cannabis transporting facility, subject to the provisions of §§
4-26-1  et seq. of the Village Code.
      Bedding manufacture.
      Building materials sales and storage.
      Carpet manufacturing.
      Cartage and express facilities.
      Cloth products manufacture.
      Dispensaries for medical cannabis, subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   No medical cannabis dispensing organization shall be located within
one thousand feet (1,000') of any of the following uses, whether or not located
within the Village:
         a.    Any public or private preschool, or any elementary or secondary
school;
         b.   Any publicly or privately operated daycare center, daycare home,
group daycare home or part day childcare facility; and
         c.    Any residential zoning district, or any residential use.
         Provided, for purposes of this use, distances shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the nearest point
of the building in which the proposed or existing medical cannabis dispensary
is established to the nearest property line of a use or zoning district.
      Dry cleaning establishments.
      Electrical, lighting, and wiring equipment.
      Food manufacture, packaging, and processing.
      Ground mounted Solar Energy Systems, as defined in and subject to the
restrictions set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of this Code.
      Insulating materials manufacture.
      Leather product assembly.
      Microbreweries.
      Plastic fabrication.
      Pottery and ceramics manufacture.
      Rope, cord, and twine assembly.
      Wind energy systems, as defined in and subject to the restrictions set
forth in chapter 5, article XVII of this Code.
   Other manufacturing, processing, and storage uses determined by the Planning
and Zoning Commission to be of the same general character as the uses allowable
in this section, and found not to be obnoxious, unhealthful, or offensive by
reason of the potential emission or transmission of noise, vibration, smoke,
dust, odors, toxic or noxious matter, glare, or heat.
   E.   Prohibited Uses: In an O-M District, the following uses shall be
prohibited:
      Heavy manufacturing.
      Trailer coaches.
   F.   Lot Area, Yard And Bulk Requirements:
1. Minimum lot area                           130,680 square feet (3 acres)
2. Minimum lot width                          325 feet
3. Minimum lot depth                          400 feet
4. Minimum front yard setback:
    Adjacent to an arterial road          40 feet
    Adjacent to an internal or collector  40 feet
road
5. Minimum rear yard setback:
    Adjacent to an arterial road          30 feet
    Adjacent to an internal or collector  30 feet
road
    Abutting an adjoining property        30 feet
6. Minimum side yard setback                  30 feet each side
                                              The requirements for a corner
7. Minimum corner side yard setback           side yard shall be the same as
                                              the requirement for a front yard
8. Minimum yard abutting a residential or     40 feet
agricultural district
9. Maximum lot coverage                       80 percent
10. Maximum impervious surface                80 percent
coverage                                       
11. Floor area ratio                          1.8
12. Height of principal use                   3 stories, or 40 feet, whichever
                                              is less
13. Height of accessory use                   1 story, or 15 feet, whichever is
                                              less
 
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
      1.   Compliance: Off street parking and loading requirements shall be
provided in accordance with provisions set forth in article XI of this chapter.
      2.   Land Banking Of Required Parking Spaces:
         a.   The Village Board may, by special use permit, reduce the total
number of off street parking spaces required to be paved, as required in
article XI of this chapter, for business and professional office uses in the O-
M District by up to fifteen percent (15%), subject to the following conditions:
            (1)   The Village Board shall have the right to direct and require
the property owner or his successor, at any time subsequent to the completion
of the development, to increase the number of paved parking spaces provided on
the property to serve the completed project, up to the maximum required by
article XI of this chapter.
            (2)   An application for a special use permit shall be accompanied
by alternate detailed parking plans. One plan shall show the full number of
parking spaces required by article XI of this chapter; the other plan shall
show the reduced number of paved parking spaces proposed to be provided, and
shall show the landscaping treatment of areas proposed to be reserved to
satisfy the total number of parking spaces required by article XI of this
chapter. Both such plans shall show the location on the site of all parking
areas, and the exact number of parking spaces to be provided.
            (3)   The applicant shall file with the Village Clerk his/her
unconditional agreement and covenant that areas reserved for future parking
shall be maintained as landscaped open space until and unless required to be
used for off street parking in accordance with the approved special use permit.
The ordinance granting such permit (including both plans), together with such
agreement and covenant, shall be recorded with the Recorder of Deeds of Kane
County, Illinois.
      3.   Location Of Off Street Parking Areas:
         a.   Required off street parking spaces shall not be located in the
first forty feet (40') of the front yard, rear yard, or required side yards of
lots in the O-M District. (Ord. 98-14, 7-16-1998; amd. Ord. 99-25, 8-19-1999;
Ord. 11-20, 9-1-2011; Ord. 14-20, 5-1-2014; Ord. 14-21, 5-1-2014; Ord. 14-22,
5-1-2014; Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018; Ord. 20-09, 2-6-2020; Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
ARTICLE X
FARMING DISTRICT
SECTION:
6-10-1: F-1 Restricted Farming District
6-10-1: F-1 RESTRICTED FARMING DISTRICT:
   A.   In an F-1 Restricted Farming District, the only permitted uses shall be
as follows:
      1.   Those uses existing at the time of rezoning, annexing, or the
adoption of this Chapter.
      2.   There shall not be an increase in stock by head count, and any stock
use terminated for more than ninety (90) days will not be allowed to resume in
the future unless an application for a special use is heard by the Planning &
Zoning Commission and approved by the Village Board of Trustees.
      3.   Lot or parcel areas, yard widths and depths, ground floor area,
height and bulk requirements will be no less than R-1 District minimums.
   B.   Special Uses: Any permitted use currently allowed in the estate
districts. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
ARTICLE XI
OFF-STREET LOADING AND PARKING
SECTION:
6-11-1: Off-Street Loading
6-11-2: Off-Street Parking
6-11-1: OFF-STREET LOADING:
   A.   Application:
      1.   In connection with any building or structure which is to be erected
or substantially altered, after the effective date of this Chapter, and which
requires the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by trucks or
similar vehicles, there shall be provided off-street loading berths not less
than the minimum requirements specified in this Article.
   B.   Location:
      1.   All required loading berths shall be located on the same lot as the
use to be served and no portion of the vehicles shall project into a street or
alley.
      2.   In manufacturing districts, no loading berth for vehicles of more
than two (2) tons' capacity shall be located less than fifty feet (50') from
any residence district.
      3.   No permitted or required loading berth shall be located within
twenty five feet (25') of the nearest point of intersection of any two (2)
streets.
      4.   No permitted or required loading berth shall be located in a
required front yard or side yard.
   C.   Size: A required off-street loading berth shall be at least fifteen
feet in width by at least sixty feet in length (15' x 60'), exclusive of aisle
and maneuvering space, and shall have vertical clearance of at least fourteen
feet (14').
   D.   Access:
      1.   Each required off-street loading berth shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movements, and shall be subject to approval
of the Engineer of the Village of Hampshire.
   E.   Surfacing: All open off-street loading berths shall be improved with a
compacted macadam base not less than seven inches (7") thick or equal, surfaced
with not less than two inches (2") of asphaltic concrete or some comparable
all- weather, dustless material.
   F.   Repair And Service: No storage of any kind nor motor vehicle repair
work or service of any kind shall be permitted within any required loading
berth.
   G.   Space Allowed: Spaces allowed to any off-street loading berth shall
not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off-
street parking facilities or portions thereof.
   H.   Required Loading Berths:
      1.   For a building constructed or used for any of the following uses,
there shall be one loading berth for the first ten thousand (10,000) to one
hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of floor area or fraction thereof, and
one additional berth for each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square
feet of floor area or fraction thereof:
         Auditoriums
         Banks
         Bowling alleys
         Business and professional offices
         Colleges
         Hospitals
         Hotels
         Private clubs or lodges
         Public administration buildings
         Sanitariums and other similar institutional uses
         Schools
      2.   For a building constructed or used for any of the following uses,
there shall be one loading berth for a building containing five thousand
(5,000) to forty thousand (40,000) square feet of floor area or fraction
thereof, and two (2) loading berths for any building containing more than forty
thousand (40,000) and up to one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of floor
area or fraction thereof:
         Assembly
         Cleaning
         Disassembly
         Fabricating
         Manufacturing
         Repairing
         Storing
         Testing
         Warehousing
      3.   For a building constructed or used for any of the following uses,
there shall be loading berths according to the following schedule:
 
Square Feet Of Floor Area Minimum Number
5,000 to  10,000          1
10,001 to 25,000          2
25,001 to 40,000          3
40,001 to 100,000         4
 
         Establishments handling the sale and consumption of food on the
premises
         Furniture and appliance stores
         Household equipment and furniture stores
         Repair shops
         Retail stores
         Wholesale stores
      For each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of floor
area or fraction thereof in such a building, there shall be one loading berth.
      4.   For a building constructed or used as a theater, there shall be one
loading berth for any such building containing eight thousand (8,000) to twenty
five thousand (25,000) square feet of floor area, and one additional loading
berth for each additional fifty thousand (50,000) square feet of floor area or
fraction thereof.
      5.   Other Uses: Off-street loading berths shall be provided for
buildings constructed or used for other uses in accordance with requirements
determined by the Village Board of Trustees based upon requirements heretofore
set forth for the most similar cases.
   I.   Lighting: Lighting for off-street loading areas shall be in conformance
with section
6-3-17 of this code. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021; Ord. 24-03, 1-18-
2024)
6-11-2: OFF-STREET PARKING:
   A.   Application:
      1.   All off-street parking shall be in accordance with the regulations
set forth hereinafter.
      2.   Any off-street parking space provided on the effective date of this
Chapter shall not be removed, enlarged, or altered except in conformance with
the requirements of this Article.
   B.   Use: Except as may otherwise be provided for the parking of trucks or
for special uses, off-street parking facilities required herein shall be solely
for the parking of passenger automobiles of patrons, occupants or employees.
   C.   Location:
      1.   All single-family and two-family uses shall be served in accordance
with the requirements of this Article by parking spaces located on the same lot
as the use.
      2.   New uses in the B-2 Business Districts and all other uses except
those in subsection 6-11-C1 above, in existence on the effective date of this
Chapter which are subsequently altered or enlarged, may be served in accordance
with requirements of this Article by parking facilities located on land other
than the lot on which the building or use served is located, provided such
facilities are located within three hundred feet (300') walking distance from
the main entrance to the use served.
   D.   Computation: When determination of the number of off-street parking
spaces required by this Article results in a requirement of a fractional space,
any fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded, while a fraction in
excess of one-half (1/2) shall be counted as one parking space.
   E.   Collective Provisions For Nonresidential Use:
      1.   No parking space, or portion thereof, shall serve as the required
space for more than one use unless otherwise authorized in accordance with this
Article.
      2.   Off-street parking facilities for separate uses may be provided
collectively:
         a.   If the total number of spaces so provided is not less than the
sum of the separate requirements of each such use; and
         b.   If all regulations governing the location of accessory parking
spaces in relation to the use served are observed.
   F.   Size: Each required off-street parking space shall meet the following
specifications exclusive of access drives, aisles, ramps, columns and office or
work area:
      1.   Width of ten feet (10') minimum.
      2.   Length of twenty feet (20') minimum.
      3.   Vertical clearance of seven feet (7') minimum.
   G.   Access:
      1.   Each required off-street parking space shall open directly upon an
aisle or a driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and efficient
means of vehicular access to such parking space.
   H.   In Yards: Off-street parking spaces may be located in a yard except a
required front yard or side yard adjoining a street.
      1.   Off-street parking spaces may be located in a front yard, or in a
side yard adjoining a street, provided that no such parking spaces shall be
located within fifteen (15') feet of the front lot line or applicable side yard
lot line, as the case may be; and only in the following zoning districts:
         a.   M-1 Restricted Industrial Zoning District
         b.   M-2 General Industrial Zoning District
         c.   M-3 Industrial Zoning District
      2.   In all other districts, off-street parking spaces are not allowed in
any required front yard or side yard adjoining a street.
   I.   Open And Enclosed Parking Spaces:
      1.   Accessory parking spaces located on the same lot as occupied by the
use served may be open to the sky or enclosed in a building.
      2.   Accessory parking spaces located elsewhere than on the same lot
occupied by the use served shall be open to the sky.
   J.   Surfacing: All open off-street parking areas shall be improved with a
compacted gravel or stone base, or equal, not less than four inches (4") thick
and surfaced with all-weather, dustless material in accordance with
specifications established by the Village Board of Trustees.
   K.   Screening And Landscaping:
      1.   All open automobile parking areas containing more than four (4)
parking spaces shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or fronting
on any residential or any institutional property by a wall or fence not less
than five feet (5') high, and not more than six feet (6') high; or by a
densely-planted, compact hedge not less than five feet (5') in height.
      2.   Wheelstops of masonry shall be placed not nearer than eight feet
(8') from the street line in any district where a front yard is not required,
and not nearer than six feet (6') from any side lot line.
   L.   Lighting: Lighting for off-street parking areas shall be in conformance
with section
6-3-17 of this code.
   M.   Required off-street parking spaces accessory to designated uses shall
be provided in number as follows:
1. Single-family dwellings              At least 2 parking spaces for each
                                        dwelling
2. Two-family dwellings                 At least 2 parking spaces for each
                                        dwelling unit
3. Multiple-family dwellings            At least 2 parking spaces for each
                                        dwelling unit
4. Hotels and apartment hotels          At least 1 parking space for each
                                        separate lodging room
                                        At least 2 parking spaces plus one
5. Rooming or lodging houses            additional parking space for each 3
                                        persons for whom living accommodations
                                        are provided
                                        At least 2 parking spaces, and 1
6. Private clubs or lodges              parking space for each 7 seats in
                                        accordance with design capacity of the
                                        main meeting room
7. Motels, tourist homes or tourist     At least 1 parking space for each
courts                                  dwelling unit and each lodging room
8. Schools, elementary or junior high - At least 1 parking space for each
public or private                       faculty member and other full-time
                                        employee
                                        At least 1 parking space for each 7
9. Schools, high - public or private    students as related to maximum design
                                        capacity for the building, exclusive of
                                        the auditorium
                                        At least 1 parking space for each 5
10. Churches                            seats, or 90 inches of seating space in
                                        the main auditorium
                                        At least 1 parking space for each 2
                                        persons employed on the premises, and
11. School and institutional            an additional parking space for each 5
auditoriums                             seats, or for each 90 inches of seating
                                        space in the main auditorium or
                                        assembly hall
12. Theaters                            At least 1 parking space for each 5
                                        seats in the theater
                                        At least 1 parking space for each 3
                                        hospital beds, plus 1 parking space for
13. Hospitals                           each 4 employees, other than doctors -
                                        plus 1 parking space for each 2 doctors
                                        assigned to the staff
14. Libraries and museums               At least 1 parking space for each 1,000
                                        square feet of floor area
                                        At least 1 parking space shall be
15. Recreational buildings or community provided for each 3 employees, plus
centers                                 spaces in adequate number as determined
                                        by the Village Board to serve the
                                        visiting public
                                        At least 3 parking spaces for each
16. Medical and dental clinics          examining or treatment room, plus 1 for
                                        each doctor and employee in the
                                        building
                                        At least 1 parking space for each 3
17. Public utility and public service   employees, plus spaces in adequate
uses                                    number as determined by the Village
                                        Board to serve the visiting public
18. Establishments handling the sale    At least 1 parking space for each 150
and consumption on the premises of food square feet of floor
and refreshments
                                        At least 7 parking spaces for each
19. Bowling alleys                      alley, plus such additional spaces as
                                        may be required herein for affiliated
                                        uses such as restaurants and the like
20. Banks                               At least 1 parking space for each 300
                                        square feet of floor area
21. Business and professional offices   At least 1 parking space for each 500
or public administration buildings      square feet of floor area
22. Automobile service stations         At least 1 parking space for each
                                        employee, plus 2 for each service stall
23. Furniture and appliance stores,
motor vehicle sales, wholesale stores,  At least 1 parking space for each 600
stores for repair of household          square feet of floor area
equipment and furniture
                                        At least 10 parking spaces for each
24. Undertaking establishmentsand       chapel or parlor, plus 1 parking space
funeral parlors                         for each funeral vehicle maintained on
                                        the premises
25. Retail stores                       At least 1 parking space for each 150
                                        square feet of floor area
26. Manufacturing, fabricating, and     At least 1 parking space for each 2
processing plants not engaged in retail employees, as related to the working
trade                                   period when the maximum number of
                                        employees are employed on the premises
                                        At least 1 parking space for each
27. Warehouse and storage               employee, as related to the working
establishments and freight terminals    period when the maximum number of
                                        employees are on the premises
                                        Parking spaces on the same basis as
28. Other uses                          required herein for the most similar
                                        use as determined by the Village Board
 
(1985 Code; amd. Ord. 21-19, 6-3-2021; Ord. 23-09, 9-7-2023; Ord. 24-03, 1-18-
2024)
ARTICLE XII
COMMUNITY GRAPHICS
SECTION:
6-12-1: Purpose
6-12-2: Prohibited Graphics
6-12-3: Exempted Graphics
6-12-4: Permitted Graphics
6-12-5: Permit
6-12-6: Graphic Regulation By District
6-12-7: Construction And Maintenance, Generally
6-12-8: Construction And Maintenance, Awnings And Canopies
6-12-9: Construction And Maintenance, Marquees
6-12-10: Removal
6-12-11: Building Code
6-12-12: Nonconforming Graphics
6-12-13: Administration
6-12-14: Appeals And Variances
6-12-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this Article is to create the framework for a
comprehensive but balanced system of street graphics and thereby to facilitate
communication between people and their environment.
   B.   With this in mind, the ordinance codified in this Article is adopted
for the following purposes:
      1.   To authorize and promote the use of street graphics which are as
follows:
         a.   Compatible with their surroundings;
         b.   Appropriate to the type of activity to which they pertain;
         c.   Expressive of the identity of individual proprietors or of the
community as a whole; and,
         d.   Legible in the circumstances in which they are seen.
      2.   To preserve, protect, and promote the public health, safety, and
welfare.
      3.   To enhance the economy and the business and industry of the Village
by promoting the reasonable, orderly, and effective display of street graphics,
and encouraging better communication with the public.
      4.   To enhance the physical appearance of the Village by preserving the
scenic and natural beauty of the area.
      5.   To protect the general public from damage and injury which may be
caused by the faulty and uncontrolled construction and use of street graphics
within the Village.
      6.   To protect the pedestrians and motorists from damage or injury
caused by the distractions, obstructions, and hazards created by certain street
graphics.
      7.   To protect the public investments in streets and highways by
reducing distractions that may increase traffic accidents.
      8.   To protect the physical and mental well-being of the general public
by reorganizing and encouraging a sense of aesthetic appreciation for the
visual environment.
      9.   To preserve the value of private property by assuring the
compatibility of street graphics with surrounding land uses. (1985 Code)
6-12-2: PROHIBITED GRAPHICS:
The following community graphics are prohibited:
   A.   Attention-getting devices, unless they are specifically permitted by
another section of this Article.
   B.   Flashing signs, except public information signs.
   C.   Moving signs.
   D.   Projecting signs.
   E.   Portable signs, except as may be permitted under the authority for
temporary signs.
   F.   Internally illuminated wall signs in the Downtown Special Graphics
Area, defined as those properties fronting on the following streets, inclusive
of the intersections of these roadways:
      1.   State Street from Allen Road to Jackson Avenue;
      2.   Washington Avenue from State Street to Elm Street;
      3.   Jefferson Avenue from Park Street to Elm Street; and
      4.   Rinn Avenue from Park Street to Sate Street.
   G.   Roof signs.
   H.   Vehicle signs.
   I.   Any sign or sign structure which constitutes a hazard to public health
or safety, as determined by the enforcement official.
   J.   Signs which, by reason of size, location, content, coloring, or manner
of illumination, obstruct the vision of drivers or obstruct or detract from the
visibility or effectiveness of any traffic sign or control device on public
streets and roads, as determined by the enforcement official.
   K.   Signs which make use of words such as “stop,” “look,” “one-way,”
“danger,” “yield,” or any similar words, phrases, symbols, lights, or
characters in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic.
   L.   Any on-premises sign which advertises a business no longer conducted or
a product no longer sold on the premises where such signs are located.
   M.   Any off-premises sign which advertises a business no longer conducted
or a product no longer sold.
   N.   Signs on trees, utility poles, or public property. (1985 Code; amd.
Ord. 24-33, 9-5-2024)
6-12-3: EXEMPTED GRAPHICS:
The provisions and regulations of this article shall not apply to the following
community graphics, nor shall the area of such community graphics be included
in the sign area permitted for any establishment:
   A.   Contractor signs, provided that:
      1.   Such a sign shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet;
      2.   Such a sign shall not be erected prior to the start of construction;
and
      3.   Such a sign shall be removed at the time of issuance of the
occupancy permit.
   B.   Development identification signs, provided that:
      1.   Such a sign shall not exceed one hundred twenty eight (128) square
feet in area, and shall not exceed a height of ten feet (10'); and
      2.   Such a sign shall not be erected more than thirty (30) days prior to
the start of construction, and shall be removed within ninety (90) days after
issuance of the final occupancy permit.
   C.   Flags, provided that no flag shall be larger than eight feet by twelve
feet (8' x 12') in dimension.
   D.   Holiday decorations, provided that:
      1.   Such a sign shall be displayed for a period of not more than sixty
(60) days in any one year; and
      2.   No such sign shall be used for advertising purposes.
   E.   Information signs.
   F.   Institutional signs, provided that:
      1.   Institutional signage will be regulated by section
6-12-4 of this article; and
      2.   Symbols, such as crosses or other religious representations, may be
permitted as architectural features, including roof mounted symbols otherwise
in compliance with applicable ordinances.
   G.   Memorial signs.
   H.   Nameplates, provided that such a sign shall not exceed two (2) square
feet in area.
   I.   No trespassing signs, provided that such a sign shall be no more than
two (2) square feet in area. (1985 Code)
   J.   Political campaign signs, provided that:
      1.   Such a sign shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area;
      2.   Such a sign shall not exceed a height of five feet (5');
      3.   Such a sign shall not be displayed in any nonresidential area
earlier than sixty (60) days before the pertinent election and shall be removed
therefrom within seven (7) days after the pertinent election. (Ord. 10-23, 10-
21-2010)
   K.   Public signs, provided that such a sign may be of any type, number,
area, height above grade, location, illumination, or animation, as authorized
by law, statute, or ordinance under which such signs are created.
   L.   Real estate signs, provided that:
      1.   Said signs shall not exceed six (6) square feet on real estate less
than one acre;
      2.   Signs on parcels one acre and over, but less than five (5), shall
not exceed thirty two (32) square feet;
      3.   Signs on parcels five (5) acres and over shall be subject to the
provisions in subsection 6-12-4C of this article;
      4.   Real estate signs may remain in place during the time the property
is for sale or rent, and for a period not to exceed one week after the
consummation of the sale or rental of the property;
      5.   No more than one real estate sign shall be allowed per lot, except
that a corner lot may have one such real estate sign per street front exposure;
and
      6.   A minimum setback of eight feet (8') from any property line is
required for any such sign.
   M.   Rummage sale or garage sale signs, provided that:
      1.   Any sign advertising a garage or rummage sale shall not be displayed
more than four (4) times per year at any given sale location;
      2.   Each such exposure of such a sign shall not exceed five (5) days;
and
      3.   No such sign shall exceed six (6) square feet in surface area.
   N.   Interior signs.
   O.   Public utility signs.
   P.   Window displays.
   Q.   Window promotional signs and window signs, provided that the total area
of window coverage by such a sign shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
total surface area of all display windows in each street exposure. (1985 Code)
   R.   On site, directional signs. Not to exceed three (3) square feet in area
and not to exceed three feet (3') in height. (Ord. 14-25, 5-1-2014)
6-12-4: PERMITTED GRAPHICS:
   A.   The following types of graphics shall be permitted:
      1.   A sign mounted flush to a wall on the premises.
      2.   A sign freestanding on a pole or on the ground on the premises.
      3.   An accessory sign.
      4.   A temporary sign or attention getting device.
      5.   A sign under a marquee.
   B.   Sign flush mounted to a wall on the premises:
      1.   Flush mounted wall graphics may be attached flat to or pinned away
from a wall.
         a.   Such graphics shall not project from the wall more than twelve
inches (12").
         b.   In the case of a mansard roof, no sign shall project beyond that
line established by that part of the roof which projects farthest from the wall
supporting it.
         c.   No flush mounted sign shall extend above the roofline.
      2.   No wall sign shall be erected or maintained unless it meets all of
the following requirements:
         a.   No more than one wall graphic per street front exposure shall be
maintained on any one parcel of property or store front.
         b.   The total allowable sign surface area of any wall graphic on any
single building shall be computed at three (3) times the lineal front footage
of the building face having a street frontage exposure, or the following
maximum area requirements, whichever is less:
            (1)   One hundred twenty (120) square feet maximum, where the
building is set back less than two hundred feet (200');
            (2)   Two hundred forty (240) square feet maximum, where the
building is set back two hundred feet (200') or more, but less than four
hundred feet (400');
            (3)   Four hundred eighty (480) square feet maximum, where the
building is set back four hundred feet (400') or more.
      3.   No flush-mounted graphic shall cover or interrupt major
architectural features such as doors, exits, and windows.
      4.   If the graphic is enclosed by a box or outline, the total area of
the graphic, including the background, is counted as part of the signable area.
   C.   Sign freestanding on a pole or on the ground on the premises:
      1.   No business establishment shall display a freestanding sign unless:
         a.   Said establishment is directly accessible by car and provides a
minimum of four (4) parking spaces on the premises where such freestanding sign
is displayed; and,
         b.   Said establishment is set back at least fifteen feet (15') from
the nearest right of way.
      2.   No freestanding sign shall exceed sixty (60) square feet in sign
surface area, except as otherwise provided in this Article.
      3.   No freestanding sign shall exceed five and one-half feet (51/2') in
height, measured from grade at the edge of the nearest right of way to the top
of the sign, except as otherwise provided in this Article.
      4.   No portion of a freestanding sign shall project over the property
line or into the public right of way.
      5.   No more than one freestanding sign shall be maintained on any one
parcel of property, with the following exceptions:
         a.   On a parcel with a minimum of three hundred feet (300') of street
frontage, up to two (2) freestanding signs may be maintained;
         b.   On any such parcel, each freestanding sign shall not exceed five
and one-half feet (51/2') in height, as set forth in subsection C3 above, and
shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet in sign surface area; and,
         c.   On any such parcel, a minimum spacing of one hundred feet (100')
shall be maintained between said signs.
      6.   A one hundred foot (100') separation shall be maintained between all
freestanding signs wherever physically possible, measured parallel to the
direction of travel on the adjacent street.
   D.   Accessory Signs:
      1.   A service station shall be permitted one exterior rate or price sign
for each street front exposure on the following conditions:
         a.   The dimensions of each such sign shall not exceed ten (10) square
feet;
         b.   Such signs shall be portable and shall state the price completely
when displayed;
         c.   No other portable signs, as defined in this Article, shall be
permitted; and,
         d.   A temporary sign may be permitted in accordance with the
provisions set forth in this Article.
      2.   A shopping center shall be allowed one identification sign, which
may be illuminated on each street front exposure, in addition to any sign
otherwise permitted by the terms of this Article for the individual businesses
therein, provided as follows:
         a.   For purposes of this Article, "shopping center" means a grouping
of commercial uses and/or buildings either under single, joint or separate
ownership designed and developed to offer a safe, efficient, and attractive
shopping area, usually with common off-street parking areas, a pedestrian mall,
controlled access and uniform, compatible signing.
         b.   A shopping center sign shall not extend beyond the property line
or into the right of way and shall be used solely to identify the shopping
center or shopping area.
         c.   A shopping center sign shall comply with all the requirements set
forth in this Article, except:
            (1)   In a unified shopping center, interior stores not having a
street front exposure shall be permitted to maintain one flush-mounted sign in
accordance with subsection B of this Section.
   E.   Temporary Signs And Attention-Getting Devices:
      1.   A temporary sign or attention-getting device is permitted for a
special promotion, including a special community activity, a grand opening
event, an annual sale, or a special activity of a nonprofit organization,
subject to the following limitations:
         a.   A temporary sign permit shall be limited to a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days;
         b.   Not more than two (2) permits shall be issued within a twelve
(12) month period;
         c.   One additional permit shall be permitted for a grand opening in
the case of substantial new construction, or a permitted change in ownership or
operation of an existing use;
         d.   The duration of a temporary permit may be extended by the
enforcement official, where a temporary sign is being used in lieu of a
permitted sign otherwise permitted under this Article, and where the applicant
files satisfactory proof showing that a permitted sign meeting the requirements
of this Article will be erected within a reasonable period of time.
         e.   No temporary sign shall contain any advertisement of any
business, industry, or pursuit not conducted on or in the premises on which
such sign is erected or maintained; and,
         f.   A temporary sign shall be placed not less than eight feet (8')
from the nearest edge of a right of way or property line.
   F.   A sign under a marquee shall be permitted as follows:
      1.   One sign located under a marquee shall be permitted for each
business in a building.
      2.   The total sign area shall not exceed six (6) square feet.
      3.   The width of any sign shall not exceed the width of the horizontal
marquee projection.
      4.   No under-marquee sign shall project more than eighteen inches (18")
from any canopy or other such structure.
      5.   There shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') of clearance between the
ground and any such sign.
      6.   The permitted wall sign area and/or freestanding sign area shall be
reduced for each square foot, or portion thereof, of sign area devoted to
under-marquee signs.
   G.   Projecting Signs:
      1.   Projecting signs shall be permitted only in the Downtown Special
Graphics Area, defined as those properties fronting on the following streets,
inclusive of the intersections of these roadways:
         a.   State Street from Allen Road to Jackson Avenue;
         b.   Washington Avenue from State Street to Elm Street;
         c.   Jefferson Avenue from Park Street to Elm Street; and
         d.   Rinn Avenue from Park Street to State Street.
      2.   No more than one (1) projecting sign shall be permitted per building
face, subject to the following requirements:
         a.   No projecting sign or sign-mounting structure shall extend above
the height of the building face.
         b.   When placed partly or wholly above a public right-of-way or
sidewalk, or a private walkway, no part of any projecting sign or sign-mounting
structure shall be less than seven feet four inches (7'4") above the adjacent
ground surface.
         c.   No projecting sign or sign-mounting structure may project more
than five feet (5') from the building face; provided, the farthest projecting
point of any projecting sign shall be set back not less than four feet (4')
from any adjacent curb, street, alley, driveway, or parking space measured
perpendicularly from such farthest projecting point to the adjacent ground
surface of any such curb, street, alley, driveway, or parking space.
         d.   No projecting sign shall exceed ten (10) square feet in surface
area.
         e.   If the projecting sign is enclosed by a box or any other material
serving to contain the sign, said box or other material shall be included when
calculating the total area of the graphic.
      3.   No projecting sign shall be internally illuminated or, except as
otherwise allowed as part of the sign structure under §
6-12-7(D), emit any light from any source.
      4.   A projecting sign shall include only the following as part of its
graphic design:
         a.   Business name;
         b.   Business owner name;
         c.   Business logo; and
         d.   Year of establishment (e.g., "Established 1990").
      5.   No projecting sign shall include changeable copy of any kind.
      6.   Projecting signs and sign-mounting structures shall be safely and
securely attached to the building face, as determined by the Village's building
official.
      7.   No projecting sign shall in any way obstruct any major architectural
feature of the building to which it is attached, such as a door, exit, or
window. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 22-29, 10-20-2022)
6-12-5: PERMIT:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to erect, construct, alter, maintain or
relocate any sign, other than such signs as specifically listed in Section
6-12-3, within the Village, without first meeting all requirements of the
Village, obtaining a permit, and paying the fees required.
   B.   Routine maintenance or changing of parts or copy designed for changes
shall not be considered an alteration, provided such change does not alter the
surface area, height or otherwise make the sign nonconforming. (1985 Code)
6-12-6: GRAPHIC REGULATION BY DISTRICT:
Graphics shall be restricted by zoning district as follows:
   A.   Residential Districts, R-1 Through R-4:
      1.   No graphics shall be erected except the following
         a.   Awnings and canopies.
         b.   Contractors' signs.
         c.   Development identification signs.
         d.   Flags.
         e.   Garage sale and rummage sale signs.
         f.   Holiday decorations.
         g.   Informational signs.
         h.   Institutional signs.
         i.   Memorial signs.
         j.   Nameplates.
         k.   Political campaign signs.
         l.   Public signs.
         m.   Real estate signs.
         n.   Residential development signs.
         o.   Temporary signs.
      2.   The following requirements shall also apply to graphics in all
residential districts:
         a.   Signs permitted in residential use districts may be located in
any required yard, but not less than eight feet (8') from any property line.
         b.   In no case shall the height of any sign in any residential
district exceed five and one-half feet (51/2'), with the exception of flags,
which shall not exceed a height of twenty two feet (22').
         c.   In no case shall the area of any ground sign in any residential
district exceed thirty two (32) square feet.
   B.   Business Districts: No graphic shall be erected except for the
following:
      1.   Accessory signs.
      2.   Awnings and canopies.
      3.   Freestanding signs, but only in B-2 and B-3 Business Districts.
      4.   Marquees.
      5.   Public information signs.
      6.   Exempted graphics under Section
6-12-3, except garage sale and rummage sale signs.
      7.   Signs permitted in residential districts, except garage sale and
rummage sale signs.
      8.   Temporary signs.
      9.   Under-marquee signs.
      10.   Wall signs.
      11.   Window promotional signs.
      12.   Window signs.
   C.   Manufacturing Districts, M-1 And M-2: No graphic shall be erected
except those as permitted in business districts. (1985 Code)
6-12-7: CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE, GENERALLY:
   A.   No signs or sign structures shall have any nails, tacks, wires or sharp
metal edges protruding therefrom.
   B.   Any glass forming a part of any sign shall be heavy safety glass and a
minimum of one-fourth inch (1/4") in thickness.
   C.   Where any single piece or pane of glass has an area exceeding three (3)
square feet, it shall be wired glass.
   D.   Illumination of signs shall be in conformance with section 6-3-17 of
this code. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 22-29, 10-20-2022; Ord. 24-03, 1-18-2024)
6-12-8: CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE, AWNINGS AND CANOPIES:
It is unlawful to erect, construct or maintain any awning or canopy unless the
following provisions are followed:
   A.   The construction materials and manner of construction of all awnings
and canopies shall be subject to the approval of the enforcement official.
   B.   Location shall be subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Awnings:
         a.   All awnings shall be constructed and erected so that the lowest
portion thereof shall be not less than eight feet (8') above the level of the
sidewalk or parkway.
         b.   No awning shall be permitted to extend beyond a point two feet
(2') inside the curbline, nor more than ten feet (10') from the building face.
         c.   No awning shall be located so as to obstruct the view of flush-
mounted signage and adjacent properties.
      2.   Canopies: All canopies shall be maintained entirely upon private
property.
   C.   Support shall be subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Awnings:
         a.   Every awning shall be securely attached to and supported by the
building.
         b.   Posts or columns beyond the building line shall not be permitted
for awnings.
         c.   It is unlawful to attach any awning to the wood jambs, frames or
other wood members of a building, frame buildings excepted, when such building
is less than ten feet (10') from public property.
      2.   Canopies:
         a.   The framework of all canopies shall be designed by a structural
engineer or registered architect and approved by the enforcement official as in
compliance with the Building Code.
         b.   All frames and supports shall be designed to withstand a wind
pressure of not less than thirty (30) pounds per square foot of area.
         c.   All canopy supports shall be designed so as not to obstruct the
continuous flow of pedestrian traffic along any sidewalk.
         d.   All canopy supports shall be in conformance with any other
reasonable requirements established by the enforcement official.
   D.   Advertising shall be subject to the following requirements:
      1.   The name of the owner and the business, industry, or pursuit
conducted within the premises may be painted or otherwise permanently placed in
letters not exceeding ten inches (10") in height on the front and side portions
of any canopy or awning.
      2.   No other advertising shall be placed on any awning or canopy. (1985
Code)
6-12-9: CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE, MARQUEES:
It is unlawful to construct, erect or maintain any marquee without complying
with the following provisions:
   A.   All marquees, including the anchors, bolts, support rods, and braces
thereof, shall be designed by a structural engineer or registered architect and
the design thereof shall be subject to approval by the enforcement official.
   B.   Location shall be subject to the following requirements:
      1.   No portion of a marquee shall be less than eight feet (8') above the
level of the sidewalk or other public thoroughfare.
      2.   In the B-2 District, no marquee shall be permitted to extend beyond
a point two feet (2') inside the curbline, nor more than ten feet (10') from
the building face.
      3.   In all other business districts, no marquee nor mansard roof can
project more than three feet (3') into a required yard.
   C.   The roofs of all marquees shall be used for no other purpose than to
form and constitute a roof.
   D.   Advertising shall be subject to the following requirements:
      1.   The name of the owner and/or business, industry or pursuit conducted
therein may be placed on the leading edge of the marquee.
      2.   Said name shall not project higher than the marquee height nor be
wider than the marquee width.
      3.   No other advertising shall be placed on any marquee.
   E.   Sign area shall be subject to the following requirements:
      1.   The sign area of a marquee sign shall be reduced for each square
foot or portion thereof, from the total area devoted to flush-mounted signs, as
stipulated in subsection 6-12-4B of this Article.
      2.   In lieu of the flush-mounted sign allowed in subsection 6-12-4B of
this Article, such sign may be mounted on the marquee, but shall not project
higher than three (3) times the marquee thickness, not to exceed three feet
(3'), nor higher than the roof line. (1985 Code)
6-12-10: REMOVAL:
   A.   Removal Of Abandoned Signs: Any on-premises sign which no longer
advertises a bona fide business conducted or a product sold on the premises
where said sign is located shall be removed by the owner, occupant, lessee or
person having the beneficial use of the property upon which such sign may be
found.
      1.   If such person fails to remove the sign, the enforcing officer shall
give the owner of the premises fourteen (14) days' written notice to remove it.
      2.   Upon failure to comply with this notice, the enforcement official
may remove the sign with all costs to be borne by the owner of the premises, or
the occupant, lessee or person having the beneficial use of the property on
which the sign is located.
      3.   The cost of removal shall constitute a lien upon said premises and
may be enforceable as provided in this Article.
   B.   Removal Of Unsafe Or Unlawful Signs: Any sign or sign structure the
enforcement official finds is unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the public,
or has been constructed or erected or is being maintained in violation of the
provisions of this Article, shall be removed or altered so as to conform to the
requirements of this Article by the permittee thereof or the owner of the
premises on which said sign or sign structure is located.
      1.   The enforcement official shall give written notice to the permittee
thereof or to the owner of the premises as shown on the most recent tax rolls
or to the person having the beneficial use of the sign.
      2.   If the permittee or owner fails to remove or alter the structure so
as to comply with the standards set forth in this Article within fourteen (14)
days after said notice, the sign or sign structure shall be removed or altered
to comply with the standards in this Article at the expense of the permittee or
owner of the property upon which it is located.
      3.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article, the enforcement
official may cause any sign which is an immediate and imminent peril to persons
or property to be removed summarily with or without notice. (1985 Code)
6-12-11: BUILDING CODE:
The provisions of this Article are in addition to the provisions of the
Building Code of the Village of Hampshire, Chapter 5 of the Village Code. (1985
Code)
6-12-12: NONCONFORMING GRAPHICS:
   A.   Generally: Graphics existing on the effective date of this Chapter, and
not conforming to the provisions of this Article, but which were constructed in
compliance with previous regulations and ordinances, shall be regarded as
lawful nonconforming graphics.
   B.   Policy Declaration:
      1.   It is reasonable that a time limit be placed upon the continuance of
existing nonconforming signs.
      2.   An amortization program permits the owner to depreciate his
investment over a given time period, during which he is allowed to continue the
nonconforming signs, while at the same time assuring that the district in which
the nonconforming signs exist will eventually benefit from a substantial
uniformity of permanent signs.
   C.   Restrictions: Lawful nonconforming graphics (signs) shall not be:
      1.   Changed to another nonconforming sign.
      2.   Structurally altered so as to prolong the life of the sign.
      3.   Expanded.
      4.   Re-established after its discontinuance for thirty (30) days.
      5.   Moved in whole or in part to another location unless said sign, and
the use thereof, is made to conform to all the regulations of this Article.
      6.   Re-established after damage or destruction in an amount exceeding
fifty percent (50%) of the estimated initial value of the sign, as determined
by the enforcement official.
   D.   Immediate Abatement: Any nonconforming sign which is prohibited by or
in violation of this Article under any of the following sections or subsections
shall either be altered or removed to bring such sign into full compliance with
this Article by three (3) months after adoption:
      1.   Attention-getting devices under subsection 6-12-2A of this Article.
      2.   Flashing signs under subsection 6-12-2B of this Article.
      3.   Moving signs under subsection 6-12-2C of this Article.
      4.   Portable signs under subsection 6-12-2E of this Article.
      5.   Festoon lighting under subsection 6-12-2F of this Article.
      6.   Vehicle signs under subsection 6-12-2H of this Article.
      7.   Signs which constitute a hazard to public health or safety under
subsection 6-12-2I of this Article.
      8.   Signs which obstruct or detract from the effectiveness of any
traffic sign under subsection 6-12-2J of this Article.
      9.   Signs made up of words or symbols which mislead or confuse traffic
under subsection 6-12-2K of this Article.
      10.   Signs on public property under subsection 6-12-2N of this Article.
      11.   Signs which obstruct architectural features under subsection 6-12-
6C of this Article.
      12.   Signs accessory to automobile service stations under subsection 6-
12-4D1 of this Article.
      13.   Illumination intensity requirements under subsection 6-12-7D of
this Article.
   E.   Abatement Within Five Years:
      1.   All other nonconforming signs shall be removed or brought into
compliance with the requirements of this Article within five (5) years from the
date of adoption hereof, with the following exception:
         a.   Freestanding signs in existence at the time of the adoption of
this Article.
      2.   At the end of the applicable removal period, nonconforming signs
shall be removed within thirty (30) days by the owner of the premises or by the
person having beneficial use of the land on which the signs are located.
   F.   Exemptions:
      1.   Signs which are presently nonconforming by virtue of having an area
in excess of the maximum set forth in this article, in an amount not to exceed
twenty percent (20%) of the allowable sign surface area, shall be exempt from
the removal provisions of this article.
      2.   Signs which are presently nonconforming by virtue of having a height
in excess of their maximum set forth in this article, in an amount not to
exceed five feet (5') higher than the allowable height, shall be exempt from
the removal provisions of this article.
      3.   No further variation may be granted for existing signs unless a
petition is made under section
6-12-14 of this article. (1985 Code)
6-12-13: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Permit:
      1.   Generally:
         a.   It is unlawful for any person to erect, construct, alter or
relocate any sign, other than such signs as specifically listed in section
6-12-3 of this article, within the village, without first obtaining a permit
from the enforcement official and paying the fee required.
         b.   Routine maintenance or changing of parts designed for changes
shall not be considered an alteration, provided such change does not alter the
surface area, height, or otherwise make the sign nonconforming.
      2.   Application: Application for permit shall be made in the office of
the building officer, and shall include the following information:
         a.   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant, owner and
occupant of the property and owner of the sign.
         b.   Location of the building, structure or parcel of property to
which or upon which the sign is to be attached or erected.
         c.   Position of sign in relation to nearby buildings, structures,
property lines and rights of way.
         d.   A copy of plans and specifications showing method of
construction, location and support.
         e.   Sketch showing sign faces, exposed surfaces and proposed message
thereof, accurately represented in scale as to size, area, proportion and
color. The proposed message requirement does not apply to those signs whose
copy would change frequently.
         f.   Name of person, firm, corporation or association erecting the
sign.
         g.   Written consent of the owners of the building, structure or land
on or to which the sign is to be erected.
         h.   Such other information as the enforcement official shall require
to show full compliance with this article and all other laws and ordinances of
the village.
      3.   Issuance: It shall be the duty of the building officer, upon the
filing of an application for a permit, to examine such plans and specifications
and other data related to proposed erection of the sign and sign structure.
         a.   If it appears that the proposed sign and sign structure is in
compliance with all the requirements of this article and all other ordinances
of the village, the permit shall then be issued.
         b.   If the work authorized under the permit has not been completed
within six (6) months after date of issuance, then said permit shall become
null and void.
      4.   Fee:
         a.   Every applicant, before being granted a permit under this
article, shall pay the requisite permit fee to the village for each sign.
         b.   The amount of such permit fee shall be determined and set by the
village board of trustees from time to time. (1985 Code)
6-12-14: APPEALS AND VARIANCES:
Variations shall be granted only on evidence that signage cannot be reasonably
installed as provided in this article due to the unique physical
characteristics of the property, its surroundings, and/or the nature of the
sign itself.
   A.   Minor Variation: An application for variation of the regulations of
this Article will be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission within the
following standards:
      1.   Area: A variation may be allowed in an amount not to exceed twenty
percent (20%) of the sign surface area otherwise allowable under these
regulations.
      2.   Height: A variation may be allowed in an amount not to exceed four
and one-half feet (4-1/2') higher than the height otherwise allowable under
these regulations.
      3.   Action by the Planning and Zoning Commission and Board of Trustees:
         a.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the application
within thirty (30) days of receipt of the application.
         b.   After consideration of the application, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall forward to the Board of Trustees its recommendation in writing
that the application by approved, approved with conditions, or disapproved.
         c.   The application shall then be approved, approved with conditions,
or disapproved by the Board of Trustees.
         d.   If the application is approved or approved with conditions, Board
of Trustees shall instruct the zoning administrator to issue a variation
permit, listing any specific conditions specified by the Board. If the
application is disapproved, the Board shall instruct the zoning administrator
to provide the applicant with written notification of the Board's decision.
   B.   General Variation: For any sign which would be nonconforming by virtue
of its location or any other characteristics, a variation may be allowed when
the Planning and Zoning Commission finds that the applicant has demonstrated
either: 1) that unique physical surroundings, shape, or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved would bring a particular hardship
on the owner, or 2) that no other reasonable alternatives exist which would
conform to this article and in either case 3) that the public good realized
would be greater than that achieved should the strict letter of the regulations
otherwise be carried out.
      1.   Action by the Planning and Zoning Commission:
         a.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the application
within thirty (30) days of receipt of the application.
         b.   After consideration of the application, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall make a recommendation to the board of trustees, for approval,
approval with conditions, or denial of any application for variation.
      2.   Action by The Board Of Trustees: The board of trustees shall review
the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, and then approve,
approve with conditions, or deny such application.
   C.   Special Graphics Area: A special graphics area may be created to
provide the opportunity for a creative approach to community graphics within a
separately defined area or portion of the village, which community graphics may
not conform to all the conditions set forth in this article. The design
features, dimensions, and locations of the community graphics proposed for a
special graphics area shall be specified in an application for creation of a
special graphics area filed with and to be approved by the village.
      1.   Requirements:
         a.   An applicant for a special graphics area shall submit
architectural plans and drawings with his application which illustrate all
graphics proposed to be created in the area, and which specify the design
features, dimensions and locations of all proposed graphics for the area.
         b.   Any graphics proposed for the special graphics area shall meet
the requirements of section
6-12-1 of this article, even if other requirements of this article will not be
met.
      2.   Action by The Planning and Zoning Commission: The Planning and
Zoning Commission shall make a recommendation to the board of trustees,
accompanied by written findings of fact, for approval, approval with
conditions, or denial of any application for creation of a special graphics
district.
      3.   Action by The Board Of Trustees: The board of trustees shall review
the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, and then approve,
approve with conditions, or deny any such application.
   D.   Amendment Of Special Graphics Area: The limits of any special graphics
area, or the graphics proposed therein, may be modified or amended, but only
after compliance with the procedures set out in subsection C of this section.
(Ord. 08-27, 6-12-2008; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
ARTICLE XIII
PENALTIES
SECTION:
6-13-1: Penalty For Violation
6-13-1: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation, or agent, employee or contractor of
such, who violates, destroys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who
resists enforcement of any provision of this Chapter, shall be subject to a
fine of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
   B.   Each day that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
   C.   Costs of prosecution shall also be assessed. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE XIV
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
6-14-1: Administration And Enforcement
6-14-2: Zoning Administrator
6-14-3: Planning And Zoning Commission
6-14-4: Planning And Zoning Commission; Term Of Office
6-14-5: The President And Board Of Trustees
6-14-1: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
Administration of this Zoning Chapter is to be vested in the following bodies:
Zoning Administrator
Planning and Zoning Commission
President and Board of Trustees
(1985 Code; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
6-14-2: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment:
      1.   The Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the Village Board of
Trustees.
      2.   Such Board may designate the Village Clerk or other Village official
as Zoning Administrator.
   B.   The Zoning Administrator and such deputies or assistants that have
been, or shall be, duly appointed shall enforce this Chapter and in addition
thereto, and in furtherance of such authority, shall:
      1.   Issue all zoning certificates and make and maintain records thereof.
      2.   Issue all certificates of occupancy, and make and maintain records
thereof.
      3.   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and use of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this Chapter.
      4.   Maintain permanent and current records of this Chapter, including,
but not limited to, all maps, amendments, conditional uses, variances, appeals
and applications therefor.
      5.   Provide and maintain a public information bureau relative to all
matters arising out of this Chapter.
      6.   Forward to the Planning and Zoning Commission, applications for
appeals, variations, special uses, amendments, or other matters on which the
Commission is required to pass under this Chapter.
      7.   Issue permits regulating the erection and use of tents for periods
not to exceed ten (10) days for specific purpose such as: temporary carnivals,
churches, charities or charitable uses, and revival meetings which are not
detrimental to the public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience or
general welfare; provided, however, that said tents or operations are in
conformance with all other ordinances and codes of the Village.
      8.   Initiate, direct, and review, from time to time, a study of the
provisions of this Chapter, and make reports of its recommendations to the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
   C.   Zoning Certificates:
      1.   A permit pertaining to the use of land or buildings shall be issued
by any officer, department or employee on the following conditions:
         a.   The application for such permit shall be examined by the Zoning
Administrator.
         b.   He shall affix to it his certificate, indicating that the
proposed building or structure complies with all the provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   Any permit or certificate of occupancy issued in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter shall be null and void.
      3.   Every application for a zoning certificate shall be accompanied by
the following items:
         a.   A plat, in duplicate, of the piece or parcel of land, lot, lots,
block or blocks, or parts or portions thereof, drawn to scale showing the
actual dimensions and monumenting, as certified by a "registered Illinois land
surveyor", as a true copy of the piece or parcel, lot or lots, block or blocks,
or portions thereof, according to the registered or recorded plat of such land;
and
         b.   Additional drawings, in duplicate, drawn to a scale in such form
as may, from time to time, be prescribed by the zoning administrator showing:
            (1)   The ground area, height, and bulk of the building or
structure, the building lines in relation to lot lines;
            (2)   The use to be made of the building, structure or land; and
            (3)   Such other information as may be required by the zoning
administrator for the proper enforcement of this chapter.
      4.   The zoning administrator may, in those cases where in his judgment
the information is not necessary because of existing evidence in village
records, waive all or portions of the requirements of subsections C3a and C3b
of this section. (1985 Code)
   D.   Computation Of Time For Notice: For purposes of this article, time for
publication of notice shall be computed by excluding the first day and
including the last day unless the last day is Saturday or Sunday, or a holiday
as defined or fixed in any statute now or hereafter in force in the state, and
then it shall also be excluded. If the day succeeding such Saturday, Sunday or
holiday is also a Saturday or Sunday or a holiday, then such succeeding day
shall also be excluded. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 06-51, 9-7-2006; Ord. 21-15, 4-
15-2021)
6-14-3: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created in the Village a Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   B.   Membership:
      1.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of seven (7)
members, who shall be appointed by the Village President, with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees. Each member of the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall be a resident of the Village.
      2.   Each member of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall serve a term
of five (5) years, provided however, the initial terms shall be staggered, and
the initial terms of members shall be as follows:
         a.   One (1) member shall serve an initial term of one year, expiring
May 1, 2021.
         b.   One (1) member shall serve an initial term of two years, expiring
May 1, 2022.
         c.   One (1) member shall serve an initial term of three year,
expiring May 1, 2023.
         d.   One (1) member shall serve an initial term of four years,
expiring May 1, 2024.
         e.   One (1) member shall serve an initial term of five years,
expiring May 1, 2025.
         f.   One (1) member shall serve an initial term of six years, expiring
May 1, 2026.
         g.   One (1) member shall serve an initial term of seven years,
expiring May 1, 2027.
      3.   The Village President shall appoint one member of the Commission to
serve as Chair. The Chair shall serve a term of two years; provided, a member
may be reappointed to multiple terms as Chair.
      4.   The Chair shall from time to time appoint a secretary, including an
acting secretary as needed, who shall record and maintain minutes of the
Commission's proceedings and official actions, including attendance at
meetings; motions made and seconded, and the vote on each motion or question
put before the Commission. The Secretary shall also conduct the correspondence
of the Commission; shall in the absence of a court reporter or the Village
Clerk summarize accurately testimony of those appearing before the Commission;
and shall file with the Village Clerk all official documents, correspondence,
and records of the commission.
      5.   Vacancies shall be filled by the village president, subject to
confirmation by the board of trustees, for the unexpired term.
   C.   Jurisdiction and Authority: The Planning and Zoning Commission is
hereby vested with the following jurisdiction and authority:
      1.   To hear and decide any appeal from an administrative order,
requirement or determination made by the zoning administrator under this
article.
      2.   To hold public hearings on applications for variations and
thereafter to submit reports of findings and recommendations to the board of
trustees in the manner set forth in this article for variations.
      3.   To hold public hearings on applications for amendments and
thereafter to submit reports of findings and recommendations to the board of
trustees in the manner set forth in this article for amendments.
      4.   To hold public hearings on applications for special uses and
thereafter to submit reports of findings and recommendations to the board of
trustees in the manner set forth in this article for special uses.
      5.   To hear or decide all other matters referred to it and which it is
required to decide under the Village Code
      6.   Propose any amendment of the text of the Village Zoning Regulations
and/or Subdivision Regulations, and the zoning map, of the village as it may
deem necessary or advisable.
      7.   To review and make recommendations regarding any Plat of Subdivision
under §§
7-2-1 et seq..
      8.   To review and make recommendations regarding any petition to
establish a large scale business planned development under §§
6-17-1 et seq..
      9.   To review and make recommendations regarding any petition to
establish a planned residential development under §§
6-18-1 et seq..
      10.   To consider any application for establishment of a Special Graphics
District, or a variance of the graphics regulations of the village.
      11.   To prepare, recommend to the president and board of trustees, and
update from time to time a comprehensive plan for the village.
         a.   Such plan shall include reasonable requirements for public
improvements in the village, regarding streets, alleys and public grounds in
unsubdivided land within the corporate limits of the village and in contiguous
territory outside of the village and distant not more than one and one-half (1-
1/2) miles from such limits, and not included in any city, village or
incorporated town.
      12.   Receive from time to time from the zoning administrator and
evaluate recommendations related to the effectiveness of this chapter and
report its conclusions and recommendations to the village board of trustees.
      13.   To aid the officials of the village charged with the direction of
projects from improvements embraced within the plan and to further the making
of such improvements.
      14.   To promote the realization of the comprehensive plan.
   D.   Procedure:
      1.   Meetings:
         a.   All meetings of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be held
at the call of the Zoning Administrator or the chairman, and at such other
times as the board may determine.
         b.   All testimony by witnesses at any hearing shall be given under
oath or affirmation.
         c.   The chairman, or in his absence the vice chairman, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
         d.   All meetings of the board shall be open to the public.
         e.   The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
that fact, and shall also keep records of its examinations and other official
actions.
         f.   Every rule, regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof, and
every order, requirement, decision or determination of the board shall
immediately be filed in the office of the village clerk and shall be of public
record.
      2.   Decisions:
         a.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall decide matters as
authorized by this chapter in a specific case and after public hearing.
         b.   A concurring vote of four (4) members of the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirements, decision or
determination of such an administrative official; to decide in favor of the
applicant any matter upon which it is required to pass under the zoning
regulations or to effect any variation in the zoning regulations, or to
recommend any variation or modification in the zoning regulations to the
Corporate Authorities.
   E.   Appeals:
      1.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hear and decide appeals
from an administrative order, requirement, or determination under this chapter,
made by the zoning administrator.
      2.   An appeal may be taken to the Planning and Zoning Commission by any
person, firm or corporation, or by any office, department, board, bureau or
commission, aggrieved by an administrative order, requirement, decision or
determination under this chapter by the zoning administrator.
      3.   An appeal shall be filed with the Village Clerk and forwarded to the
Planning and Zoning Commission and thereafter processed, all as prescribed by
applicable Illinois statutes.
      4.   All decisions, after hearing of the Planning and Zoning Commission
on appeals from an administrative order, requirement, decision or determination
of the administrative officer, shall be final administrative determinations and
shall be subject to judicial review in accordance with applicable Illinois
statutes.
   F.   Variations:
      1.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall recommend, and the board of
trustees shall decide, variations as herein set forth to the provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   All variations shall be in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of this chapter, and a variation shall be granted only in specific
instances where the Planning and Zoning Commission, after public hearing, shall
have made a finding of fact based upon the standards hereinafter prescribed
that there is a practical difficulty or particular hardship occasioned by the
strict letter of the regulations of this chapter.
      3.   An application for variation may be made by any person, firm or
corporation, or by an office, department, board, bureau or commission,
requesting or intending to request such application.
      4.   An application for a variation shall be filed with the zoning
administrator, who shall thereafter forward such application to the Planning
and Zoning Commission.
      5.   A variation shall be recommended by the Planning and Zoning
Commission only after the Planning & Zoning Commission has conducted a public
hearing thereon.
      6.   There shall be a notice of time and place of said public hearing
published at least once, not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15)
days before the hearing, in one or more newspapers with a general circulation
within the village of Hampshire.
      7.   A written notice shall be served at least fifteen (15) days before
the hearing to the owners of the properties located adjacent to the location
for which the variation is requested.
      8.   In any area of which a petition for variation from the zoning
ordinance is being considered, notice shall be posted for at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the public hearing.
         a.   The posted notice(s) shall be in number, size and location, as
prescribed by the zoning administrator and shall indicate that a request for
the variation from the zoning ordinance has been requested, the date, time and
place that the public hearing will be held on the variation, and any other
information prescribed by the zoning administrator.
         b.   Posted notices shall be removed by the applicant from the subject
area within fifteen (15) days after the public hearing has been held, and
failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
      9.   Time for notices shall be computed in accordance with subsection
6-14-2D of this article.
      10.   Decisions on such variations by the board of trustees shall be in
accordance with procedures set forth in Illinois statutes.
      11.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall decide upon each
application for variation according to the following standards:
         a.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall not recommend a
variation unless it shall find, based upon evidence presented to it at the
public hearing on the application for variance, the following:
            (1)   That the property in question cannot yield a reasonable
return if permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the
regulations governing the district in which it is located, and that the
variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character of the locality;
or
            (2)   That the plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances
and that the variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the locality.
         b.   For the purpose of supplementing the above standards, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall also take into consideration the extent to
which the following facts, favorable to the applicant, have been established by
the evidence:
            (1)   That the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved would bring a
particular hardship upon the owner as distinguished from a mere inconvenience
if the strict letter of the regulation were to be carried out;
            (2)   That the conditions upon which the petition for variation is
based would not be applicable generally to other property within the same
district;
            (3)   That the purpose of the variation is not based exclusively
upon a desire to make more money out of the property;
            (4)   That the alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created
by any person presently having an interest in the property;
            (5)   That the granting of the variation will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located; or
            (6)   That the proposed variation will not impair an adequate
supply of light and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the
danger of fire, or otherwise endanger the public safety, or substantially
diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood.
         c.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend and the board of
trustees may require such conditions and restrictions upon the premises
benefited by a variation as may be necessary to comply with the standards set
forth in this article to reduce or minimize the injurious effect of such
variation upon other property in the neighborhood and to implement the general
purpose and intent of this chapter.
      12.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hear and recommend and the
board of trustees shall decide only such variation to the regulations of this
chapter as follows:
         a.   To permit a yard or other required open area to have less width
or depth than herein required by applicable zoning district regulations.
         b.   To permit the use of a lot of record on the effective date of
this chapter for a use otherwise prohibited solely because of the insufficient
area of the lot, but in no event shall the area of the lot be less than eighty
percent (80%) of the required lot area.
         c.   To permit parking lots to be illuminated later than thirty (30)
minutes after close of business.
         d.   To permit the same off street parking spaces to qualify as
required spaces for two (2) or more uses, provided that the maximum use of such
facility by each user does not take place during the same hours or on the same
days of the week.
         e.   To allow any permitted nonresidential use in an estate or
residence district to exceed the floor area ratio and building height
regulations of the district where such use is to be located, and to allow any
governmental, institutional or public utility buildings or structures permitted
in business and manufacturing districts to exceed the floor area regulations of
the district where such buildings or structures are to be located.
         f.   To permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building which
has been destroyed or damaged to an extent of more than sixty percent (60%) of
its value by fire, or act of God or the public enemy, where the board shall
find some compelling public necessity requiring a continuance of the
nonconforming use, and in no case shall such a permit be issued if its primary
function is to continue a monopoly.
         g.   To interpret the provisions of this chapter where the street
layout or lot lines actually on the ground vary from the street layout or lot
lines shown on the district map as locations of zoning district boundary lines.
         h.   To vary the off street parking regulations for a change of use in
a conforming building when it is found that adequate off street parking
facilities exist in the vicinity, or providing the required number of parking
spaces on the same lot or within the required distance from it would impose an
unreasonable hardship upon the use of such building as contrasted with merely
granting an advantage or convenience.
         i.   To permit a solid fence to be erected along any lot line of a lot
in an estate or residence district that is contiguous or across an alley or
street from a lot upon which is located a nonresidential use.
         j.   To permit those nonconforming freestanding ground signs in
existence on the effective date of this chapter, to remain at their present
location regardless of the sign requirements of the zoning classification in
which they are now located.
            (1)   This variance applies only to signs in existence as of the
effective date of this chapter, not to subsequent replacements or modifications
of said nonconforming freestanding ground signs.
            (2)   For the purpose of this section, nonconforming shall mean
those freestanding ground signs which became nonconforming upon the passage of
the municipal code of the village of Hampshire of 1966 and subsequent
amendments to the sign regulations up and through the effective date of this
chapter.
   G.   Amendments:
      1.   Amendments may be proposed by any governmental body, or by any
person or organization.
      2.   An application for an amendment shall be filed with the zoning
administrator.
         a.   The application shall be filed in such form and accompanied by
such information as required by the zoning administrator.
         b.   Such application shall be forwarded by the Planning and Zoning
Commission for review, public hearing, and written recommendations thereon to
the village board of trustees.
      3.   Within sixty (60) days of receipt of any application for rezoning,
or such time as may be agreed by the applicant, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall hold a public hearing on such application at a time and place
as shall be established by legal advertisement (notice of hearing) by the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
      4.   The public hearing shall be conducted and a record of the
proceedings shall be preserved in such a manner as the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall by rule prescribe from time to time.
      5.   Notice of time and place of the hearing shall be published at least
once, not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the
hearing, in one or more newspapers with a general circulation within the
village of Hampshire.
      6.   In any area for which an individual application for a change in
zoning classification is being considered, notice shall be posted for at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing.
         a.   The posted notices shall be in number, size and location, as
prescribed by the zoning administrator and shall indicate the present zoning
classification, the time and place of public hearing, and any other information
prescribed by the zoning administrator.
         b.   Posted notices shall be removed by the applicant from the subject
area within fifteen (15) days after the public hearing has been held, and
failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
      7.   Time for notices shall be computed in accordance with subsection
6-14-2D of this article.
      8.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall make written findings of
fact and shall submit same together with its recommendations to the board of
trustees for final action.
         a.   Where the purpose and effect of the proposed amendment is to
change the zoning classification of a particular property, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to it
in each specific case with respect to the following matters:
            (1)   Existing uses of property within the general area of the
property in question.
            (2)   The zoning classification of property within the general area
of the property in question.
            (3)   The suitability of the property in question to the uses
permitted under the existing zoning classification.
            (4)   The trend of development, if any, in the general area of the
property in question, including changes, if any, which have taken place in its
present zoning classification.
            (5)   The objectives of the current land use plan.
   H.   Special Uses:
      1.   The purpose of this subsection is as follows:
         a.   The development and execution of this chapter is based upon the
division of the community into districts within which districts the use of land
and buildings, and the bulk and location of buildings and structures in
relation to the land, are substantially uniform.
         b.   It is recognized, however, that there are certain uses which,
because of their unique characteristics, cannot be properly classified in any
particular district or districts, without consideration in each case of the
impact of those uses upon neighboring land, and of the public need for the
particular use in the particular location.
         c.   For the purposes of this section, such conditional uses fall into
two (2) categories:
            (1)   Uses publicly operated or traditionally affected with a
public interest.
            (2)   Uses entirely private in character, but of such an unusual
nature that their operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to
their impact upon neighboring property or public facilities.
         d.   Planned developments shall be governed in all respects by this
chapter.
      2.   A person may file an application to use such land for one or more of
the special uses provided for in this chapter in the zoning district in which
the land is located, if and only if he holds an interest in the land in
question as follows:
         a.   A freehold interest in land;
         b.   A possessory interest entitled to exclusive possession; or
         c.   A contractual interest which may become a freehold interest or an
exclusive possessory interest, and which is specifically enforceable.
      3.   An application for a special use shall be filed with the zoning
administrator in a form prescribed by the zoning administrator:
         a.   The application shall be accompanied by such plans and/or data
prescribed by the Planning and Zoning Commission;
         b.   The application shall include a statement in writing by the
applicant and adequate evidence showing that the proposed special use will
conform to the standards set forth hereinafter;
         c.   Such application shall be forwarded from the zoning administrator
to the Planning and Zoning Commission with a request to review said application
and accompanying data, conduct a public hearing thereon, and submit written
recommendations thereon to the village board of trustees.
      4.   Within sixty (60) days of receipt of any application for a special
use, or such time as may be agreed by the applicant, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall hold a public hearing on the application, at such time and
place as shall be established by legal advertisement (notice of hearing) by the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
      5.   The hearing shall be conducted and a record of the proceedings shall
be preserved in such manner as the board of trustees shall, by rule, prescribe
from time to time.
      6.   Notice of time and place of the hearing shall be published at least
once, not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the
hearing, in one or more newspapers with a general circulation within the
Village of Hampshire. Supplemental or additional notices may be published or
distributed as the board of trustees may, by rule, prescribe from time to time.
      7.   In any area for which an individual application requests a special
use, there shall be an additional notice posted on the premises for at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing:
         a.   The posted notices shall be in number, size and location as
prescribed by the zoning administrator and shall indicate the present zoning
classification, the proposed special use, the time and place of public hearing,
and any other information prescribed by the zoning administrator.
         b.   Posted notices shall be removed by the applicant from the subject
area within fifteen (15) days after the public hearing has been held.
         c.   Failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
      8.   Time for notices shall be computed in accordance with subsection
6-14-2D of this article.
      9.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall make written findings of
fact and shall submit same together with its recommendations to the village
board of trustees for final action. No special use shall be recommended by the
Planning and Zoning Commission, unless such board shall find, in writing, as
follows:
         a.   That the establishment, maintenance or operation of the special
use will not be detrimental to, or endanger the public health, safety, morals,
comfort, or general welfare;
         b.   That the special use will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted, and will not substantially diminish and impair property values
within the neighborhood;
         c.   That the establishment of the special use will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for
uses permitted in the district;
         d.   That the exterior architectural appeal and functional plan of any
proposed structure will not be so at variance with either the exterior
architectural appeal and functional plan of the structures already constructed
or in the course of construction in the immediate neighborhood or the character
of the applicable district, as to cause a substantial depreciation in the
property values within the neighborhood;
         e.   That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and/or necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
         f.   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide
ingress and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public
streets; and
         g.   That the special use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located, except as such
regulations may, in each instance, be modified by the board of trustees
pursuant to the recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      10.   Conditions and guarantees for any special use may be required as
follows:
         a.   Prior to the granting of any special use, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall, in a conclusion paragraph separate from the findings of fact,
stipulate such conditions and restrictions upon the establishment, location,
construction, maintenance, and operation of the special use as are deemed
necessary for the protection of the public interest and to secure compliance
with the standards and requirements specified above.
         b.   For any application for special use for a massage therapy
establishment, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider for
recommendation, and the board of trustees may approve, the following
conditions:
            (1)   All persons administering massage therapy, as defined in 225
Illinois Compiled Statutes 57/10, shall be duly licensed by the state of
Illinois in accordance with the requirements of law; and
            (2)   Each owner, operator or manager, and any massage therapist at
any massage therapy establishment shall at all times comply with any and all
laws, statutes, rules and regulations applicable to the business.
            (3)   No owner, operator or manager, or massage therapist at any
such massage therapy establishment shall be convicted of any offense arising
out of or related to his, her or their conduct in the management or operation
of such establishment.
         c.   In all cases in which special uses are recommended, the Planning
and Zoning Commission may require such evidence and guarantees as it may deem
necessary as proof that the conditions stipulated in connection herewith are
being and will be complied with.
      11.   Action by the village board of trustees shall be taken as follows:
         a.   The village board of trustees shall not act upon a proposed
special use permitted under this chapter until it shall have received a written
report and recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Commission on the
proposed special use.
         b.   The board of trustees may grant or deny, by ordinance or
resolution, any application for special use, and may establish such conditions
and restrictions upon the establishment, location, construction, maintenance
and operation of the special use, as is deemed necessary for the protection of
the public interest and to secure compliance with the standards and
requirements specified herein.
         c.   In all cases where the board of trustees permits the
establishment of a special use, the terms of the relief granted shall be
specifically set forth in the ordinance or resolution in a conclusion
statement, separate from any findings of fact in the case.
   I.   Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan:
      1.   Amendments may be proposed by any governmental body, or by any
person or organization.
         a.   The application shall be filed in such form and accompanied by
such information as required by the zoning administrator.
         b.   Such application shall be forwarded to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for review and written recommendations thereon.
         c.   Where the purpose and effect of the proposed amendment is to
change the zoning classification of a particular property, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to it
in each specific case with respect to the following matters:
            (1)   Existing uses of property within the general area of the
property in question.
            (2)   The zoning classification of property within the general area
of the property in question.
            (3)   The suitability of the property in question to the uses
permitted under the existing zoning classification.
            (4)   The trend of development, if any, in the general area of the
property in question, including changes if any, which have taken place in its
present zoning classification.
            (5)   The objectives of the current land use plan. (1985 Code; amd.
Ord. 06-51, 9-7-2006; Ord. 10-24, 10-21-2010; Ord. 14-24, 5-1-2014; Ord. 21-15,
4-15-2021; Ord. 21-44, 11-4-2021)
6-14-4: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION; TERM OF OFFICE:
State law mandates that initial terms of office for members of the zoning
advisory body to be as follows:
 
1 year  5 years
2 years 6 years
3 years 7 years
4 years  
 
Each successive term shall thereafter be for five (5) years. (Ord. 21-15, 4-15-
2021)
6-14-5: THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
The president and board of trustees are vested with the following
responsibilities:
   A.   Approve or disapprove variations, amendments, conditional or special
uses, and planned developments.
   B.   Act upon the annual report from the plan commission concerning status
of zoning and the master or comprehensive plan. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE XV
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
(Rep. by Ord. 03-01, 4-3-2003)
ARTICLE XVI
INTERCHANGE OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
6-16-1: Purpose
6-16-2: District Boundaries
6-16-3: General Requirements
6-16-4: Sign Requirements
6-16-5: Site Plan Requirements
6-16-1: PURPOSE:
The Interchange Overlay District is created to promote safe and efficient use
of the arterial roadways, as well as to protect and enhance the aesthetic and
visual character of the lands within the District. These goals will be
accomplished through the establishment of special development standards for
properties in the vicinity of the I-90 and Route 20 interchange, and evaluation
by the Village of all proposed land use within the Overlay District.
Regulations contained in the Interchange Overlay District shall be in addition
to, and shall overlap and overlay, all other zoning districts contained within
the Overlay District; so that any parcel of land lying in an Overlay District
shall also lie in one or more of the other zoning districts provided for in the
Hampshire Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. 92-10, 10-1-1992)
6-16-2: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The Interchange Overlay District boundaries shall be as established on the
Official Zoning Map of the Village. (Ord. 92-10, 10-1-1992)
6-16-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All uses shall be subject to the use limitations set forth in the
underlying zoning districts, and, in addition, to the following requirements:
      1.   Each use shall be designed so that vehicular circulation is
coordinated with that on adjacent properties.
      2.   Each use shall have access designed so as not to impede traffic on
arterial roadways. Access by the following means should be considered:
         a.   Access to the site as provided by a public street other than an
arterial roadway, and/or
         b.   Access to the site as provided by the internal circulation of a
development, with a limited number of well-designed access points to the public
street system.
      3.   Outside storage or display of goods offered for sale shall be
prohibited, except as authorized in the HC District. (Ord. 92-10, 10-1-1992)
6-16-4: SIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Additional Requirements: In addition to the requirements of Article
XII, "Community Graphics", the following regulations shall apply to all uses
within the Interchange Overlay District; provided, where there is a conflict
between the regulations in Article XII and the Interchange Overlay District,
the Interchange Overlay District regulations shall govern.
      1.   Definitions:
 
                                    A sign which is mounted on a temporary
AWNING SIGN:                        shelter supported entirely from the
                                    exterior wall of a building.
                                    A sign which is mounted on a permanently
                                    roofed shelter covering a sidewalk,
                                    driveway or other similar area, which
CANOPY SIGN:                        shelter may be wholly supported by a
                                    building or may be wholly or partially
                                    supported by columns, poles or braces
                                    extended from the ground.
                                    A sign designed to advertise to
                                    vehicular travelers on Interstate 90 for
                                    tourist-traveler destinations and uses
                                    located in the Overlay District,
FREESTANDING HIGHWAY IDENTIFICATION including hotels and motels, gas
POLE SIGN:                          stations, truck stops and restaurants,
                                    so as to provide to such travelers
                                    adequate visibility from a business
                                    location within the Overlay District,
                                    within the size and height limitations
                                    prescribed in this Article.
 
   B.   Graphics Regulation by District: Graphics shall be restricted by zoning
district as follows:
      1.   HC Highway Commercial District:
         a.   Freestanding Signs:
            (1)    No more than one freestanding ground sign, one freestanding
highway identification pole sign and one freestanding pole sign shall be
maintained on any one parcel of property two (2) acres or larger.
            (2)    No more than one freestanding ground sign shall be
maintained on any one parcel of property less than two (2) acres.
            (3)   No freestanding pole sign shall exceed one hundred sixty five
(165') square feet in sign surface area.
            (4)   No freestanding pole sign shall exceed twenty five (25') feet
in height, measured from grade at the edge of the nearest right of way, from
which access to the property is obtained, to the top of the sign.
            (5)   No freestanding ground sign shall exceed eighty (80) square
feet in sign surface area.
            (6)   No freestanding ground sign shall exceed eight feet (8') in
height, measured from grade at the edge of the nearest right of way, from which
access to the property is obtained, to the top of the sign.
            (7)   No freestanding highway identification pole sign shall exceed
one thousand twenty four (1024) square feet in sign surface area. For
properties set back more than one thousand feet (1,000') from Interstate 90,
the permitted sign area for freestanding highway identification signs may be
increased by ten percent (10%).
            (8)   No freestanding highway identification pole sign shall exceed
one hundred (100') feet in height, measured from grade at the edge of the
nearest right of way, from which the property receives access, to the top of
the sign.
         b.   Canopy Signs:
            (1)   No canopy sign shall project above the top of the canopy upon
which it is mounted.
            (2)   Total canopy signage shall not exceed one hundred twenty
(120) square feet in sign surface area.
         c.   Awning Signs:
            (1)   No awning sign shall project above the top of the awning upon
which it is mounted.
            (2)   No awning signs shall project from the face of an awning.
            (3)   Total awning signage shall not exceed one hundred twenty
(120) square feet in sign surface area.
         d.   Wall Signs:
            (1)   The number of wall signs to be permitted shall be as follows:
               (A)   One wall sign per retail, office or other user in a
building, on each elevation of said building fronting a public street; and
               (B)   One additional wall sign per each such street frontage
            (2)   The total allowable sign surface area of any wall sign on any
single building shall be calculated at either three (3) times the lineal front
footage of the building face having a street frontage exposure, or the
following maximum area requirements, depending on setback as described,
whichever is less:
               (A)   Where the building is set back from the street less than
two hundred feet (200'), one hundred fifty (150 s.f.) square feet maximum;
               (B)   Where the building is set back from the street two hundred
feet (200') or more, but less than four hundred feet (400'), two hundred forty
(240 s.f.) square feet maximum;
               (C)   Where the building is set back from the street four
hundred feet (400') or more, four hundred eighty (480 s.f.) square feet
maximum.
            (3)   The total allowable surface area of all wall signs on each
street frontage of a building face having a street frontage exposure shall be
no more than ten percent (10%) of the total area of the building face.
      2.   O-R Office-Research District and O-M Office and Restricted
Manufacturing District:
         a.   Freestanding Signs:
            (1)   One freestanding ground sign may be erected at each major
entrance to an office-research park. Such sign(s) shall identify the name of
the office-research park. No such sign shall exceed forty (40) square feet in
area or fifteen feet (15') in height or be located closer than ten feet (10')
to property line.
            (2)   One freestanding ground sign identifying each building may be
permitted for each detached building which houses a principal use within an
office park. Such sign(s) shall be limited to identifying the name of the
building and/or the individual enterprises located therein, the address,
trademark or identifying symbol or any combination thereof. No such sign shall
exceed twenty (20) square feet in area or eight feet (8') in height or be
located closer than ten feet (10') to any property line.
            (3)   One freestanding ground directory sign may be permitted in
close proximity to each major entrance of an office-research park. Such sign(s)
shall be limited to identifying and providing directional information to
individual enterprises located within the office-research park. No such sign
shall exceed fifteen (15) square feet in area or eight feet (8') in height or
be located closer than ten feet (10') to any property line.
   C.   Special Use Permit: The following additional regulations shall apply to
signs accessory to the following uses, which shall require a special use
permit:
      1.   Restaurant; Fast Food Restaurant:
         a.   Freestanding Signs: No more than one freestanding ground sign,
one freestanding highway identification pole sign and one freestanding pole
sign shall be maintained on any one parcel of property less than two (2) acres.
         b.   Restaurants shall comply with all other sign requirements of the
Interchange Overlay District.
   D.   Development Signs in any District:
      1.   The owner of property located in the Interchange Overlay District
may construct one "development identification sign" (as defined in Section
6-2-2) during the time a project is under construction on the subject property,
in accord with the following regulations:
         a.   Any development sign must face the I-90 Illinois Toll Highway
only.
         b.   No development sign shall utilize more than two (2) faces, each
constituting not more than two hundred (200) square feet.
         c.   No development sign shall exceed fourteen feet (14') in height,
measured from the ground to the top of the sign.
         d.   There shall be no more than one such sign for any development.
         e.   Any such development sign shall be set back not less than twenty
feet (20') from the right of way of the I-90 Illinois Toll Highway, and not
less than one hundred feet (100') from any exterior lot line of the development
project.
         f.   Notwithstanding the duration of construction on the project, no
special permit for such a sign shall be for a period greater than three (3)
years, provided that such permit shall upon application filed prior to the end
of the fist three-year period, may be extended for an additional period of not
more than three (3) years, said application to be made and considered in accord
with the special use procedure established in this Chapter.
         g.   In any event, no such development sign shall be permitted, and
any such development sign shall be removed by the permit holder, upon
completion of seventy five percent (75%) of the development project. For
purposes of this Section, "completion of seventy five percent (75%) of the
development project" shall mean issuance of an occupancy permit for not less
than seventy five percent (75%) of the total square footage of the development
or not less than seventy five percent (75%) of the number of structures in the
development, whichever first occurs.
   E.   Prohibited Graphics:
      1.   Outdoor advertising signs, commonly referred to as billboards or
poster panels. (Ord. 92-10, 10-1-1992; amd. Ord. 21-10, 4-1-2021; Ord. 22-23,
9-15-2022)
6-16-5: SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application: In the Interchange Overlay District, all applications for
building, zoning or rezoning, and special permits shall require site plan
review by the Planning and Zoning Commission and approval by the Village Board.
No construction permit shall be issued within the Overlay District until a site
plan as required by this Section has been approved.
   B.   Review: The following shall require review of the Planning and Zoning
Commission only, without approval by the Village Board:
      1.   Applications for permits necessary to structurally alter an existing
building where such structural alteration results in an expansion of less than
one thousand (1,000) square feet, or less than ten percent (10%) of the area of
the existing building, whichever is greater;
      2.   Applications for permits necessary to acquire access or additional
access to an arterial roadway;
      3.   Applications for certificates of occupancy for changes in use which
result in an increase in off-street parking requirements.
   C.   Site Plan Submission Requirements: The following items shall accompany
each application for site plan review:
      1.   A survey of property lines showing location of bordering streets and
roads, and existing and approved access points.
      2.   Illustration on the site plan of the location of all trash
receptacles, air conditioning and heating equipment, loading area, parking
areas, lighting and an indication of the methods to be used to screen all such
areas from all public views.
      3.   Location on the site plan of all on-site utilities. Such utilities
shall be located under ground, unless required by the utility to be otherwise
located.
      4.   A schematic landscape plan (at the time of final project
submission).
         a.   The schematic landscape plan shall address each of the following
issues:
            (1)   Screening requirements;
            (2)   Adequate landscaped islands in parking areas;
            (3)   Tree removal and replacement;
            (4)   Irrigation system;
            (5)   Retention and protection of endangered and valuable native
trees;
            (6)   Use of shade trees, especially in the development of
vehicular-use areas.
         b.   The detailed landscape plan must include the following:
            (1)   All existing trees and significant plant groupings, sizes,
locations, species, identification and spacing noted;
            (2)   All proposed trees and plant materials, with sizes,
locations, species, identification and spacing noted;
            (3)   All existing and proposed contours;
            (4)   All existing and proposed structures and vehicular-use areas,
with sizes, square footage, materials and circulation noted;
            (5)   Proposed irrigation system layout;
            (6)   The relationship of the site to the surrounding land uses.
      5.   Exterior elevation drawings of buildings and other structures.
      6.   Building materials and color samples.
      7.   Sign location, materials, colors, size, shape and lighting.
      8.   Parking lot design and materials.
   D.   Development Standards:
      1.   Access and Egress Requirements:
         a.   The minimum distance between driveways must be two hundred feet
(200'), unless precluded by the location of existing driveways on adjacent
properties.
         b.   Access to arterial roadways may be prohibited from any property
having access to a street intersecting with an arterial roadway, or any parcel
with frontage on an arterial roadway which has access through an existing
joint-use access easement or driveway.
         c.   Each separate use, grouping of attached buildings, or uses
permitted as part of a single integrated plan, shall have not more than two (2)
access points to any arterial roadway.
         d.   Each building or group of buildings and their parking or service
area(s) shall be physically separated from the adjacent street by a curb,
planting strip or other suitable barrier.
         e.   When conditions warrant, the Planning and Zoning Commission may
require the proponent to dedicate and construct right-hand-turn lanes along
interstate highway frontage roads to aid ingress-egress.
      2.   Loading And Truck Storage Areas:
         a.   No truck loading/unloading facilities shall be located on a
building wall fronting on any arterial roadway. No truck trailer or tractor
parking shall be located between the front building line and the front property
line for any lot with frontage along an arterial roadway.
      3.   Landscape Requirements: Existence of vegetation establishes a strong
overall visual impression of the Overlay District, giving it a special
character, differentiating it from agricultural areas, while enhancing the
countryside.
         a.   Tree Planting And Replacement: The following guidelines should be
used to monitor the planting and replacement of trees destroyed or damaged
during the development or redevelopment process:
            (1)   For each tree removed with a trunk greater in diameter than
six inches (6"), measured at a point four and one-half feet (41/2') above
ground level, or for each cluster of three (3) or more trees located within ten
feet (10') of each other with trunk diameters greater than two inches (2"), the
developer must plant a sufficient amount of native species of trees within
disturbed areas that will reasonably compensate for the loss of existing trees.
            (2)   For all properties which front onto an arterial roadway, no
clearing of vegetation shall be permitted within fifty feet (50') of the
dedicated right of way.
            (3)   The planting or replacement of trees on a site shall ensure
that, at maturity of ten (10) years after installation, minimum tree canopies
or covers will provide ten percent (10%) tree canopy for each development site.
               (A)   Existing trees which are to be preserved may be included
to meet all or part of the canopy requirements.
               (B)   Tree canopy or tree cover shall include all areas of
coverage by plant material exceeding eight feet (8') in height.
         b.   Roadside Trees:
            (1)   Existing trees, within the right of way over five inches (5")
in diameter, measured at a point four and one-half feet (41/2') above ground
level should be retained to the greatest extent possible.
            (2)   Trees shall be planted no more than forty feet (40') apart
along all public roadways.
            (3)   Roadside trees should be deciduous hardwoods, such as maple,
oak, linden, sycamore, etc., (not conifers or flowering ornamentals), in order
that a unified character may ultimately be created.
         c.   Buffer Yard And Screening Standards: Buffering and screening
shall be provided where necessary to protect and enhance the character of the
interchange area.
            (1)   Buffer Yard: A buffer yard consists of a strip of land with
plantings which is reserved from development. Buffer yards are useful in
protecting and enhancing the character of the interchange area, as well as
minimizing the negative impact of incompatible uses. All uses proposed adjacent
to a residential district shall be required to provide buffering. The following
standards shall be applied to all development within the Interchange Overlay
District:
               (A)   Where business development is proposed adjacent to a
residential use, a side yard setback of fifty feet (50') and rear yard setback
of one hundred feet (100') shall be observed for buildings, parking, and/or
storage. This area shall serve as a buffer zone and shall consist of a
landscaped area densely planted with a mixture of deciduous and evergreen trees
and shrubs, and shall create an effective visual barrier. All trees shall be a
minimum of three feet (3') diameter measured at a point four and one-half feet
(41/2') above ground level when planted. Native trees and shrubs shall be
planted wherever possible, in order to capture the "spirit of the locale"
through indigenous species.
               (B)   In instances where healthy plant material exits on a site
prior to its development, in part or in whole, the Planning Commission may
adjust the application of the abovementioned standards to allow credit for such
plant material if, in its opinion, such an adjustment is in keeping with and
will preserve the intent of these standards.
            (2)   Screening: Open storage areas, exposed machinery, and outdoor
areas used for the storage and collection of rubbish, must be visually screened
from roads and surrounding land uses. Suitable types of screening include dense
evergreen hedges of five feet (5') or more in height and opaque wood, stone, or
brick fences.
         d.   Parking Lot Landscaping Standards:
            (1)   General Standards: The following standards shall apply to the
installation and maintenance of all landscaping and screening in parking areas
required by the provisions of this Section.
               (A)   All trees required by the provision of this Section shall
be species normally classified as canopy or shade trees, and do not include
trees commonly classified as understory or ornamental types. All trees shall
have a minimum trunk height of six feet (6') (branching to start 6 feet above
the parking pavement) and shall have a minimum three inches (3") diameter
measured at a point four and one-half feet (41/2') above ground level at the
time of planting. Evergreens shall be a minimum of six feet (6') in height when
installed.
               (B)   Deciduous shrubs other than dwarf varieties shall be a
minimum of three feet (3') in height and four feet (4') in height if used as a
visual screen planting. Dwarf deciduous shrubs shall be a minimum height of
eighteen inches (18"). Evergreen shrubs shall have a minimum spread of thirty
inches (30"), unless used as a visual screen, in which case they shall also be
a minimum height of four feet (4').
               (C)   Existing vegetation which is suitable for use in
compliance with the requirements of this Section, and which is appropriately
protected, may be used to provide planting and screening in accordance with the
purpose and intent of this Section.
               (D)   When parking lots adjoin land zoned for residential use,
there shall be an opaque barrier constructed to provide a separation between
the two (2) uses. This can be achieved by a solid type fence no less than four
feet (4') in height, or with densely planted shrubs and berms to provide a
visual barrier. Berms shall not exceed a slope of 3:1. (Ord. 92-10, 10-1-1992;
amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
ARTICLE XVII
LARGE SCALE BUSINESS PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-17-1: Purposes
6-17-2: Objectives
6-17-3: Characteristics; Transfer Of An LSBPD
6-17-4: Standards
6-17-5: Zoning Amendment
6-17-6: Procedure For Establishment Of An LSBPD District
6-17-7: Procedure For Review And Approval Of Final Development Plan
6-17-8: Contributions
6-17-9: Amendments
6-17-10: Reclassification Of Property; Revocation Of Final Development Plan
6-17-11: Article To Be Liberally Construed
6-17-1: PURPOSES:
Because a large scale business planned development includes multiple principal
uses that would otherwise require classification of the subject property into
two (2) or more standard zoning districts in the village, a proposal for such a
development would present to both the village and the developer planning
difficulties and problems if it were to be classified as a special use in any
one standard zoning district. The purpose of this article is to avoid said
difficulties and problems, and to better accomplish the purposes and objectives
set forth in this article, by providing for the creation of a separate zoning
classification for, regulations for, and procedures for review and approval of,
large scale business planned developments in the village.
The additional purposes of the large scale business planned development
regulations are as follows:
   A.   To encourage and allow for the development of large areas within the
village of Hampshire under unified control and proposing an appropriate mixture
of uses, including office, retail, commercial, service, research-development,
industrial and residential, combined in a single, integrated development
project.
   B.   To provide the village of Hampshire control over various aspects of
such developments which would not be available to it under other district
zoning regulations.
   C.   To encourage and allow more creative and imaginative design for such
large developments than would be possible under district zoning regulations.
   D.   To obtain the preservation of natural site qualities, facilities and
open space within the community.
   E.   To promote economic opportunities within the community.
   F.   To provide for more efficient use of the land to be developed in such
developments. (Ord. 04-05, 2-19-2004)
6-17-2: OBJECTIVES:
The following objectives may be obtained by the creation of a zoning district,
regulations, and procedure for review and approval of applications for
development of a large scale business planned development:
   A.   To permit a maximum choice in the types of conditions available to
business within the village by allowing a development that would not be
possible under the strict application of the other sections of this chapter;
   B.   To promote a creative approach to the use of the land and related
physical facilities that results in better design and development, with the
inclusion of aesthetic amenities;
   C.   To combine and coordinate architectural styles, building forms and
building relationships with a possible mixing of different urban uses in an
innovative land use design;
   D.   To provide for the prevention and/or control of soil erosion, surface
flooding, and the preservation of subsurface water;
   E.   To create an environment that promotes the economic welfare of the
community and benefits the owners within the development and/or the general
public;
   F.   To promote the more efficient use of large tracts of land for primarily
economic opportunities in the village, resulting in more practical networks of
streets, utilities, and other facilities; and
   G.   To encourage land use patterns which promote the public health, safety,
comfort, morals, and general welfare. (Ord. 04-05, 2-19-2004)
6-17-3: CHARACTERISTICS; TRANSFER OF AN LSBPD:
   A.   A "large scale business planned development" ("LSBPD" ) is a tract of
land with the following characteristics:
      1.   To be developed as a unit, under single ownership, or under single,
unified or coordinated control of its planning and development;
      2.   Consisting of not less than five hundred (500) acres of contiguous
land; and
      3.   Consisting of areas to be devoted to two (2) or more principal uses,
such as office, retail, industrial, and/or residential uses, such that it would
otherwise be required to classify the property in two (2) or more standard
zoning districts. Provided, that a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of its total
gross acreage is devoted to business type uses, including, but not limited to,
office, retail, commercial, service, research-development and industrial uses.
   B.   For purposes of this section, land separated by highways, streets,
public ways, railroads, or other public rights of way may be deemed contiguous
so as to qualify for inclusion in a large scale business planned development.
   C.   A portion or portions of a large scale business planned development may
be transferred to another party to be developed in accord with a final
development plan which has been approved in accord with the provisions of this
article. (Ord. 04-05, 2-19-2004)
6-17-4: STANDARDS:
   A.   As part of the approval of a large scale business planned development,
the Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend and the board of trustees may
grant modifications to, exceptions from, and variations of, any provisions of
the village zoning regulations, subdivision regulations, and all other
applicable codes and ordinances, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Lot design (such as lot area, lot width, lot depth, and yard
setbacks).
      2.   Block standards.
      3.   Limitations on density or number of dwelling units.
      4.   Building height.
      5.   Bulk standards.
      6.   Landscape buffers.
      7.   Performance standards.
      8.   Street design standards.
      9.   Permitted uses.
   B.   The total gross area for a large scale business planned development
shall be not less than five hundred (500) gross acres and the percentage of the
total gross acreage designated for business related uses, including, but not
limited to, office, retail and industrial uses, shall be not less than sixty
percent (60%) of the total gross area.
   C.   The maximum densities allowed for any residential section of an LSBPD
may surpass those allowed by the otherwise applicable zoning regulations, or as
may be described in the comprehensive plan, provided, however, that there shall
be no more than one dwelling unit per acre of the area of the entire LSBPD, and
the type or types of housing may be specifically restricted in the LSBPD
preliminary development plan by the village board of trustees. For purposes of
the calculation of maximum densities under this subsection, there shall be
deducted from the total gross area of the entire LSBPD such area or areas as
shall be designated for wetlands and floodplains. Lands to be preserved as
woodlands shall not be deducted.
   D.   To meet the unique circumstances presented by each application for
approval of a large scale business planned development, and to protect the
health, safety, and general welfare of Village residents, including any future
residents of the proposed development, the Village Board reserves the right to
include in the approval of any application for a large scale business planned
development such other and additional conditions it shall deem necessary or
advisable, even if not specifically provided herein, specifically, but not
limited to, conditions for inclusion in the large scale business planned
development of any permitted or special use, and specifically any adult-use
cannabis business establishment, otherwise allowed as a permitted or special
use under this Chapter 6: Zoning.
   E.   Wind energy systems shall also be included among the uses allowed in a
Large Scale Business Planned Development, subject to the requirements otherwise
set forth in chapter 5, article XVII of this Code. Provided, however, as to any
such wind energy system not specifically described in and approved as part of
the initial Large Scale Business Planned Development approval, the owner of any
lot or lots in said planned development desiring to erect or install any wind
energy system shall make application for a special use, pursuant to subsection
6-14-3H of this chapter, without the need for amending the final development
plan or the Large Scale Business Planned Development approval ordinance for the
development for such purpose.
   F.   Solar Energy Systems shall also be included among the uses allowed in a
Large Scale Business Planned Development, subject to the requirements otherwise
set forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of this Code. Provided, however, as to
any such Solar Energy System which is a ground-mounted solar energy system not
specifically described in and approved as part of the initial Large Scale
Business Planned Development approval, the owner of any lot or lots in said
planned development desiring to erect or install a ground-mounted Solar Energy
System shall make application for a special use, pursuant to subsection
6-14-3H of this chapter, without the need for amending the final development
plan or the Large Scale Business Planned Development approval ordinance for the
development of such ground-mounted solar energy system. (Ord. 04-05, 2-19-2004;
amd. Ord. 11-20, 9-1-2011; Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018; Ord. 20-09, 2-6-2020; Ord.
21-15, 4-15-2021)
6-17-5: ZONING AMENDMENT:
   A.   An LSBPD District may be established only by an amendment of the
Village's official zoning map, approved in accord with the procedures set forth
in subsection 6-14-3G of this chapter, and the procedures described in this
article.
   B.   The following standards shall be considered by the Village when
considering the establishment of any LSBPD District:
      1.   Site Characteristics: The suitability of the subject property for a
Large Scale Business Planned Development with respect to its size, shape, and
any existing improvements.
      2.   Sewer And Water: The suitability of the subject property for a Large
Scale Business Planned Development with respect to the availability of adequate
water, wastewater transmission and treatment, and stormwater control
facilities.
      3.   Traffic And Parking: The suitability of the subject property for a
Large Scale Business Planned Development with respect to the provision of safe
and efficient on site and off site vehicular access and circulation designed to
minimize traffic congestion.
         a.   Nonresidential land uses should be located central and accessible
to the population served without requiring traffic movements through or into a
nonresidential neighborhood. Nonresidential uses should not be located in
residential neighborhoods, but on their periphery as defined by an arterial
street system.
         b.   The number of locations for vehicular access to or from a public
right-of-way should be limited to those which are necessary for the reasonable
use of the property and consistent with current traffic engineering standards.
Locations for vehicular access to or from a public right-of-way should be
aligned directly opposite existing or approved locations across the street.
      4.   Zoning History: The suitability of the subject property for a Large
Scale Business Planned Development with respect to the length of time the
property has remained undeveloped or unused in its existing zoning district in
the Village, if applicable.
      5.   Surrounding Land Use And Zoning: The suitability of the subject
property for a Large Scale Business Planned Development with respect to
consistency and compatibility with surrounding land use and zoning.
      6.   Trend Of Development: The suitability of the subject property for a
Large Scale Business Planned Development with respect to its consistency with
an existing pattern of development or an identifiable trend of development in
the area.
      7.   Natural Preservation: The suitability of the subject property for a
Large Scale Business Planned Development with respect to the preservation of
all significant natural features therein, including topography, watercourses,
wetlands, and vegetation.
      8.   Internal Land Use: The suitability of the subject property for a
Large Scale Business Planned Development with respect to the proposed land uses
being located, designed, and operated so as to exercise no undue detrimental
influence on each other or on surrounding territory.
      9.   Planned Development Districts: The suitability of the subject
property for a Large Scale Business Planned Development with respect to
conformance to the provisions for the purpose and intent, and the location and
size, of an LSBPD District.
      10.   Comprehensive Plan: The suitability of the subject property for a
Large Scale Business Planned Development with respect to conformance to the
goals, objectives, and policies of the official comprehensive plan of the
Village. (Ord. 04-05, 2-19-2004)
6-17-6: PROCEDURE FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF AN LSBPD DISTRICT:
   A.   Filing: An application for establishment of an LSBPD District and
approval of a preliminary development plan shall be filed with the Village
Clerk.
   B.   Pre-application Conference: No application shall be accepted by the
clerk unless and until a pre-application conference shall have been conducted
with such village consultants, and representatives of the village board, as
shall be from time to time designated by the village president.
      1.   The pre-application conference shall be for the purpose of reviewing
the proposed LSBPD in light of the village's comprehensive plan, the existing
zoning and land use in the general area of the proposed development, proposed
land uses in the proposed LSBPD, existing facilities for municipal services,
and other pertinent factors.
      2.   The applicant shall present both a sketch plan, showing the
boundaries of the property, relationship to existing highways and streets,
proposed street layout, significant land features, and existing buildings; and
a written statement describing the proposed land uses, lot sizes and density,
type(s) of buildings, water and wastewater disposal services, and other
significant features of the proposed LSBPD. The applicant shall provide to the
village clerk not less than six (6) copies of the sketch plan and the written
statement prior to the pre-application conference.
      3.   The representatives of the board, and consultants, attending such
pre-application conference shall render such comments as are deemed advisable
regarding the proposed LSBPD.
      4.   Prior to the pre-application conference, the prospective applicant
shall comply with the village policy as established from time to time regarding
deposit of funds as security for payment or reimbursement of consultant fees
incurred by the village.
   C.   Concept Plan: The applicant shall thereafter file with the village
clerk a petition for establishment of an LSBPD district, and a concept plan for
the planned development. The applicant shall provide the village not less than
eighteen (18) copies of the concept plan upon filing.
      1.   The purpose of the concept plan is to enable the applicant to obtain
the opinions and comments of the village board and Planning and Zoning
Commission regarding the concept plan for the LSBPD before incurring
considerable time and expense in the preparation of a detailed preliminary plan
for the proposed development. Upon request from the developer, the village
board may waive the requirement for a concept plan, and instead, the developer
may submit a preliminary development plan for review in accordance with
subsection D of this section.
      2.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the concept plan,
and recommend approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval of the concept
plan, and forward said recommendation together with any pertinent comments to
the board of trustees.
      3.   The board of trustees shall review and approve, approve with
conditions, or disapprove the concept plan submitted by the applicant.
   D.   Preliminary Development Plan: The applicant shall file with the village
clerk a preliminary development plan, not later than six (6) months after the
date of approval of the concept plan. The applicant shall provide the village
with not less than eighteen (18) copies of the preliminary development plan
upon filing.
      1.   The purpose of the preliminary development plan is to obtain
approval from the village that the plan, design, and program for the proposed
LSBPD are acceptable, and the applicant may proceed on that basis to final
planning.
      2.   A preliminary development plan shall include the various items
required to be included in a preliminary plan under subsection
7-2-3B of this code, and the following information and/or documentation:
         a.   Narrative statement of the planning objectives met by the
proposed planned development, including a description of its character, the
rationale behind the plan, a statement of conformance with the objectives and
standards for an LSBPD as set forth in this article; and a statement of
conformance with the comprehensive plan of the village.
         b.   Development schedule indicating the approximate date when
construction of the planned development or its various stages can be expected
to begin and be completed.
         c.   General analysis of the impact of the development on traffic
facilities.
         d.   General analysis of the impact of the development on municipal
utilities.
         e.   Data sheet containing the following:
            (1)   Net acreages devoted to each proposed land use type,
including, but not limited to, parks, open space, and streets;
            (2)   Total number and types of any proposed dwelling units,
including range of square footage, anticipated bedroom mix, and estimated
selling price of dwelling units;
            (3)   Pertinent market data as to the economic need for each
proposed land use type; and
            (4)   Estimated population by housing type broken into elementary
school, middle school, high school, and adult groupings, having reference to
the table of ultimate estimated population utilized by the village at the time
of application (see
chapter 14 of this code);
            (5)   Existing improvements, including the location, widths and
names of all existing or previously platted streets or other rights of way
showing type of improvement (if any); railroad and utility rights of way; parks
and other public open spaces; buildings and structures; historic sites; and
landmarks.
         f.   Miscellaneous information required as follows:
            (1)   Draft of proposed annexation agreement, if applicable;
            (2)   Architectural elevations for all proposed housing types
(except the single-family portions thereof), in any residential portion of the
LSBPD;
            (3)   General landscape plan indicating the treatment of common
open spaces and the location of required buffer areas.
         g.   A list of requested variations from the standard zoning
regulations for each type of proposed land use.
         h.   Any additional information requested by the village to evaluate
the character and impact of the proposed planned development.
      3.   The procedure for action on a petition for establishment of a large
scale business planned development district, and approval of a preliminary
development plan, before the Planning and Zoning Commission, and board of
trustees shall be as follows:
         a.   The Planning and Zoning Commission, within sixty (60) days or
such time as may be agreed by the applicant, after a petition for establishment
of an LSBPD district, and for approval of a preliminary development plan, has
been filed with the village, shall conduct a public hearing to consider all
aspects of the petition, and the preliminary development plan, including all
proposed stages and/or units of development.
            (1)   Notice of the time and place of said public hearing shall be
given not less than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30) days before said
hearing, by publishing a notice thereof in a newspaper published or generally
circulated in the village.
         b.   Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing on such plan,
the Planning and Zoning Commission shall prepare and transmit to the village
board and to the applicant the following:
            (1)   Specific findings of fact with respect to the extent to which
the petition and the preliminary development plan, and each of them, complies
with the standards set out in this article; and
            (2)   Recommendations to the village board with respect to the
action to be taken on the petition and the preliminary development plan.
         c.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend disapproval,
approval, or approval with conditions as to the petition and Preliminary
Development Plan.
      4.   The village board shall approve, approve with conditions, or
disapprove the petition, and the preliminary development plan, within sixty
(60) days after it receives the findings and recommendations of the Planning
and Zoning Commission, unless said time is extended by mutual consent of the
village board and applicant.
         a.   Approval by the board of trustees of the preliminary development
plan shall constitute approval of the general features of the large scale
business planned development, subject to approval of final development plan(s)
as provided below.
         b.   Approval of the preliminary development plan by the village board
shall be effective for a period of twenty four (24) months, provided, the
village board may in its sole discretion allow a longer period of time or waive
this time requirement in its entirety.
         c.   No preliminary development plan shall be approved by the village
board of trustees without first being reviewed by the village engineer, who
shall submit findings and comments to the village board to assist the village
board in its review of the preliminary development plan. The village engineer's
report shall be advisory in nature and shall not be binding upon the village
board.
      5.   The board of trustees may modify these procedures as it deems
necessary or advisable, as specified in its approval of the concept plan, in
light of the size and scope of the proposed LSBPD.
      6.   The village board shall approve, approve with conditions, or
disapprove the petition, and the preliminary development plan, within sixty
(60) days after it receives the findings and recommendations of the zoning
board of appeals, unless said time is extended by mutual consent of the village
board and applicant.
         a.   Approval by the board of trustees of the preliminary development
plan shall constitute approval of the general features of the large scale
business planned development, subject to approval of final development plan(s)
as provided below.
         b.   Approval of the preliminary development plan by the village board
shall be effective for a period of twenty four (24) months, provided, the
village board may in its sole discretion allow a longer period of time or waive
this time requirement in its entirety.
         c.   No preliminary development plan shall be approved by the village
board of trustees without first being reviewed by the village engineer, who
shall submit findings and comments to the village board to assist the village
board in its review of the preliminary development plan. The village engineer's
report shall be advisory in nature and shall not be binding upon the village
board.
      7.   The board of trustees may modify these procedures as it deems
necessary or advisable, as specified in its approval of the concept plan, in
light of the size and scope of the proposed LSBPD. (Ord. 04-05, 2-19-2004; amd.
Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
6-17-7: PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   The developer shall file an application for approval of a final
development plan for all or any portion of the LSBPD with the village clerk not
later than twelve (12) months after the date of approval of the preliminary
development plan. The applicant shall provide the village with not less than
eighteen (18) copies of the final development plan upon filing.
   B.   The application for final development plan shall include the following
information, and any additional information that is pertinent to the proposed
development, including information relating to any modifications to the
preliminary development plan as the board of trustees may have deemed necessary
or advisable and shall have specified in its approval of the preliminary
development plan; and all information shall be presented on acceptable
reproducible material:
      1.   Final development plat information, as set forth in subsection 7-2-
4B of this code.
      2.   Detailed engineering plans and specifications for the development
improvements, including, but not limited to, land grading, site preparation,
streets, utilities, drainage, and any other requirements of the village's
subdivision regulations as set forth in subsection 7-2-4C of this code.
      3.   Proof that the developer has acquired legal title to all land within
the proposed LSBPD, or is the contract purchaser of the property;
      4.   Articles of incorporation and bylaws for any property owners'
association to be established;
      5.   Restrictive covenants and other legal instruments deemed necessary
to guarantee the proper upkeep and use of the common open space and
recreational facilities therein; and
      6.   Restrictive covenants whereby the owner proposes to regulate and
maintain land uses in general, and other features, of the proposed development.
      7.   Performance guarantee in compliance with subsection 7-2-4D of this
code and applicable law.
   C.   The application for approval of final development plan shall be in
substantial compliance with the preliminary development plan as approved. The
application may request approval of a final development plan for all or any
phase of the development. A final development plan or plans covering the entire
area of the LSBPD shall have been submitted to the village for approval in
accord with any time limitations established as a condition for approval of the
preliminary development plan, or not later than twenty (20) years after the
date of approval of the preliminary development plan, whichever is earlier.
Provided, upon application of the owner and/or developer of the subject
property, the board of trustees may at any time and from time to time extend
the period of time for such submission(s).
   D.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the application for
approval of the final development plan.
      1.   If the final development plan is in substantial compliance with the
preliminary development plan, and the application for final approval has been
filed with such supporting materials as the village requires, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall, within thirty (30) days of such filing, recommend
approval of the final development plan.
      2.   If the final development plan is not in substantial compliance with
the preliminary development plan as approved, a public hearing to consider the
final development plan shall be held before the Planning and Zoning Commission.
         a.   For purposes of this subsection, any modification only in the
location of streets, facilities for water supply or wastewater treatment, or
facilities for storm water detention, retention or conveyance shall not be
considered to be a substantial change, and no public hearing shall be required
as to any such modification, unless such modification results in a reduction in
the availability of streets or such facilities in the proposed development
area.
         b.   For purposes of this subsection, it shall be considered to be a
substantial change if there is any change in the location of any proposed
intersection of a proposed street and any existing public highway; and it shall
be considered to be a substantial change if there is any reduction in open
space of more than five percent (5%).
         c.   Following such public hearing, the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall recommend approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval of the final
development plan, and forward said recommendation to the board of trustees.
   E.   The zoning board of appeals shall review and make its recommendation
regarding the proposed final development plan within thirty (30) days after
receiving findings and recommendations from the plan commission, and shall
forward same to the board of trustees. The zoning board of appeals shall
utilize the same criteria and procedures relating to substantial compliance
with the preliminary development plan as established for the plan commission in
subsection D of this section.
   F.   Within forty five (45) days after receiving findings and
recommendations from the Planning and Zoning Commission, the village board
shall review and approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the proposed
final development plan; provided, if the final development plan is in
substantial compliance with the preliminary development plan, the board of
trustees shall approve the final development plan.
      1.   The village may require, as a condition for its approval of any
final development plan, the following:
         a.   The final development plan bear on its face the name of its
preparer, the date of preparation, and the date of any revisions;
         b.   The final development plan be accompanied by final engineering
plans and specifications, and an estimate of costs for any and all improvements
shown in the plan, which plans and estimate shall be subject to the approval of
the village engineer;
         c.   The final development plan be accompanied by an appropriate
completion bond, irrevocable letter of credit, or cash, in accord with the
requirements specified by subsection
7-2-4D of this code and applicable law;
         d.   The final development plan, and all development undertaken
pursuant to the final development plan, shall be in compliance with all other
applicable codes, regulations, statutes and laws pertaining to the proposed
development.
   G.   Any large scale business planned development shall be developed only in
substantial compliance with the final development plan approved by the board of
trustees. (Ord. 04-05, 2-19-2004; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2023)
6-17-8: CONTRIBUTIONS:
The owner and/or developer of any large scale business planned development
shall, unless expressly relieved of all or any part of the obligation by the
corporate authorities, make such contributions of cash, land, or combination
thereof, as shall meet the requirements of chapter 14 of this code, and/or the
provisions of any annexation agreement, development agreement, or other
agreement concerning the subject property in regard thereto, as the case may
be. (Ord. 04-05, 2-19-2004)
6-17-9: AMENDMENTS:
A preliminary or final development plan may be amended, upon request of the
owner and/or developer of the subject property, but only after a public hearing
has been held and a recommendation has been made by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, and after review and approval by the board of trustees, pursuant to
the provisions of this article. (Ord. 04-05, 2-19-2004; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-
2023)
6-17-10: RECLASSIFICATION OF PROPERTY; REVOCATION OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
If no construction of the improvements included in the final development plan
shall have commenced within two (2) years after the date of approval of said
plan, and thereafter in accord with any time limitations which may have been
included in the conditions for approval of the final development plan, the
corporate authorities may apply for a map amendment reclassifying the subject
property from LSBPD district to the most restrictive zoning district that is
consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the comprehensive plan,
and the application for such amendment shall be considered by the village in
accord with the requirements of subsection 6-14-3G of this chapter. In
addition, the board of trustees may by resolution duly enacted revoke the
approval of the final development plan under such circumstances. (Ord. 04-05,
2-19-2004)
6-17-11: ARTICLE TO BE LIBERALLY CONSTRUED:
This article is to be liberally construed and the village is to be deemed to
have the broadest powers in the interpretation and application of this article
in order to permit the village and the applicant the maximum choice in the
types of environments to be available to the public, the owner(s), and the
future occupants and residents within the large scale business planned
development. (Ord. 04-05, 2-19-2004)
ARTICLE XVIII
PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
6-18-1: Purpose
6-18-2: Definitions
6-18-3: Special Procedures And Standards
6-18-4: Permitted Uses
6-18-5: Objectives
6-18-6: General Provisions
6-18-7: Residential Standards
6-18-8: Preliminary Development Plan
6-18-9: Final Development Plan
6-18-10: Contributions
6-18-11: Amendments
6-18-12: Limitation/Reclassification Of Subject Property; Revocation Of
Approval Of Final Development Plan
6-18-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Because planned residential developments are of such substantially
different character from other developments, specific and additional standards
and exceptions are hereby established to govern review and approval of any
application for establishment of a planned residential development district in
the village.
      1.   General Purpose: A planned residential development is a privilege to
be earned and not a right to be claimed simply by complying with the standards
established in this article. The village may require any reasonable conditions
or design considerations which will promote a development of benefit to the
community. It is not intended that the village automatically grant the maximum
use exceptions or density increase in the case of each planned residential
development. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall recommend and the village
board may grant only such increase or latitude which is consistent with the
benefit accruing, in the judgment of the village, to the village as a result of
the planned residential development. As a condition for approval, each proposed
planned residential development district must be generally compatible with the
character and objectives for the zoning regulations which would otherwise apply
for the type(s) of uses proposed for the development, shall be at least fifty
(50) acres in size, and shall be consistent with the objectives of the
village's comprehensive land use plan.
      2.   Specific Purposes: Specific purposes of the planned residential
development district procedures are:
         a.   To ensure the preservation of the natural beauty of the village.
         b.   To enhance the appearance of neighborhoods by the conservation of
streams and points of natural beauty, thereby also preserving natural
recreation areas for the residents of the village.
         c.   To preserve natural areas and open spaces, which give a sense of
spaciousness in the village.
         d.   To counteract the effects of urban monotony and congestion in the
streets in the village.
         e.   To encourage cooperative relationships between neighbors and
participation by all age groups in the use and care of local open space tracts
in new residential neighborhoods in the village.
         f.   To promote appropriate architecture between adjacent dwellings or
institutional buildings, and to encourage the placement of structures in proper
relationship to the natural characteristics of a site, including cluster
development, where appropriate.
         g.   To control access points on thoroughfares and to separate
pedestrian and automobile traffic in the village.
         h.   To evaluate proposed recreational and open space systems and
bicycle/pedestrian system connections within any development and areas
surrounding any proposed planned residential development to ensure system
continuity.
   B.   It is the further purpose of this article to promote efficient land use
patterns, which will preserve trees, wetlands and other natural resources;
provide site amenities; and secure large parcels of permanent open space,
characteristic of the village's existing natural environment.
   C.   These provisions are intended to encourage and accommodate more
creative and imaginative design for land development than would otherwise be
possible under the strict application of the provisions of the village's zoning
and subdivision ordinances.
   D.   It is intended that implementation of this section will result in
efficient land use patterns and, therefore, more economical land development,
that will:
      1.   Foster high quality development by allowing flexibility in land use
and design standards, thereby encouraging innovative site planning;
      2.   Promote more efficient land use patterns, which not only preserve
open space and natural resources, but also provide for more economical networks
of utilities, streets and other facilities, using traditional neighborhood
development and/or smart growth objectives;
      3.   Promote diverse, high quality environments;
      4.   Foster the permanent preservation of open space and agricultural
lands for the continued use and enjoyment of residents of each new neighborhood
and the village;
      5.   Promote usable and suitably located public and private recreational
facilities;
      6.   Encourage developers to provide amenities that enhance the quality
of life, both within the planned residential development, as well as within the
community as a whole;
      7.   Encourage a land use pattern, which promotes the public health,
safety, comfort, morals and welfare; and
      8.   Allow more than one building per zoning lot, when determined to be
of benefit to residents of a neighborhood. (Ord. 05-02, 2-10-2005; amd. Ord.
21-15, 4-15-2021)
6-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to planned residential developments:
CLUSTER SUBDIVISION: A single-family residential subdivision, consisting of
three (3) or more residential lots, in which the individual lots are clustered,
grouped, or arranged so as to achieve a more flexible site design for the
purpose of:
   A.   Providing more usable open space; and
   B.   Protecting sensitive natural areas and features.
CONDOMINIUM BUILDINGS: A property subject to a declaration of condominium
ownership pursuant to the Illinois condominium property act, or subject to a
declaration establishing a common interest community as defined in section 9-
102 of the Illinois code of civil procedure.
DENSITY, GROSS: The number of dwelling units per acre devoted to residential
land development, including streets, street rights of way and open space.
DENSITY, NET: For the purpose of determining the number of units per acre in a
planned residential development for net density calculation, lot area shall be
included, but not street rights of way, or open space.
DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE: An ordinance adopted by the village board, upon
completion of a final development plan and any necessary subdivision approvals,
for the formal approval of a planned residential development; such ordinance
may include graphics and other supporting documentation upon which village
board approval is based. The development ordinance shall specify conditions of
approval established by the village board, if any.
DWELLING, ATTACHED: A one-family dwelling attached to two (2) or more one-
family dwellings by common vertical walls.
DWELLING HOUSE, ZERO LOT LINE: A one-family dwelling on an individual lot with
open space setbacks on three (3) sides.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A dwelling containing more than two (2) living units.
DWELLING, QUADRAPLEX: Four (4) attached dwellings in one structure, in which
each unit has two (2) open space exposures; shares one or two (2) walls with an
adjoining unit or units; and has a common entry at the ground level.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building containing one dwelling unit.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY, DETACHED: A dwelling which is designed for, and
occupied by not more than one family, and surrounded by open space, or yards,
and which is not attached to any other dwelling by any other means.
DWELLING, TOWNHOME: A one-family dwelling in a row of at least three (3) such
units, in which each unit has its own front and rear access to the outside, no
unit is located over another unit, and each unit is separated from any other
unit by one or more common fire resistant walls.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A structure on a single lot containing two (2) dwelling
units, each of which is totally separated from the other by an unpierced wall
extending from ground to roof or an unpierced ceiling and floor extending from
exterior wall to exterior wall, except for a common stairwell, exterior to both
dwelling units. Also known as a duplex.
MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT: A residential subdivision where each structure
contains two (2) or more dwelling units.
OPEN SPACE: An active, passive, or scenic area of land set aside, reserved or
dedicated for use or enjoyment by a specific group or the general public as one
or more of the following:
Active open space may include, but is not limited to:
Forest preserve
Park
Pathway (improved; landscaped)
Playground
Recreational facility (golf course; tennis court; swimming pool; ball fields;
and the like)
School grounds
Trail (improved; landscaped)
Utility right of way (when improved with a trail or pathway)
Passive open space may include, but is not limited to:
Cemetery
Conservation easement or area
Detention/retention facility for storm water
Environmental feature: wetland, stream, floodplain, floodway, or other greenway
feature
Institutional land
Landscaped corridor
Scenic observation point
Stand of mature trees
Viewshed
Where practicable, open space should be available for use or enjoyment by the
general public; and should be located so as to be visible and accessible.
Not more than seventy percent (70%) of such open space shall consist of land
encumbered by environmental features such as wetland, stream, floodplain,
floodway, or other like feature.
Such open space is intended to expand the green infrastructure of the
community; to conserve and protect natural resources and features; to provide
for physical and aesthetic enjoyment of the out of doors; to enhance the
identity of the community, and to help shape the pattern of growth and
development in the village.
PLAN: A drawing of a tract of land and supporting documentation that contains
information related to a proposed development.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The Planning and Zoning Commission of the
Village.
PLAN REVIEW GROUP: The group designated to meet and confer with a petitioner
under this article during the preapplication review stage. The group shall
include such village officials and consultants as determined necessary from
time to time by the village president for a full review of a proposed planned
residential development.
PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT: A parcel of land under single ownership or
unified control for development, under a program for the provision, operation
and maintenance of such areas, facilities and improvements that will be for the
use and benefit of the residents of the development and/or the community at
large, and which may be approved when:
   A.   The proposed development offers benefits to the neighborhood and/or
community beyond those otherwise required under this code; and/or
   B.   The proposed development incorporates substantial amenities not
otherwise required under this code, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Open space and greenbelts;
      2.   Recreational facilities; and
      3.   Other specific design, engineering, architectural, site, planning or
landscape features.
UNIFIED CONTROL: The combination of two (2) or more tracts of land otherwise
under separate ownership for purposes of filing a single petition for planned
residential development and wherein each owner has agreed that his or her tract
shall be developed as part of a single planned residential development.
VILLAGE BOARD: The board of trustees of the village.
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS: The zoning board of appeals of the village. (Ord. 05-
02, 2-10-2005; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
6-18-3: SPECIAL PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS:
   A.   Planned residential developments are of a substantially different
character from conventional subdivisions or development on individual zoning
lots within a conventional zoning classification, and, therefore, shall require
administrative procedures for review and approval pursuant to the provisions of
this article.
   B.   Because planned residential developments are complex and of a different
character than other developments, the village has established the following
specific procedures and standards for planned residential developments. The
standards set forth herein are intended to guide the recommendations of the
Planning and Zoning Commission and the approval of the Village Board during
review of the proposed planned residential development. (Ord. 05-02, 2-10-2005;
amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
6-18-4: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Planned Residential Developments may include uses and structures not
otherwise permitted by the zoning regulations for the type(s) of use which
would otherwise apply, provided appropriate landscape screening and/or
architectural design features are provided between dissimilar land uses, and
the petitioner adequately demonstrates that the Planned Residential Development
accomplishes the standards set forth in this chapter, achieves the planning
goals and objectives of the Village, as stated herein and in the comprehensive
land use plan, and is compatible with adjacent land uses.
   B.   A Planned Residential Development is intended to allow a mixture of
dwelling unit types, thereby offering a choice in lifestyle to residents of the
development, but also may be limited to only one type of dwelling unit. A
Planned Residential Development may also include commercial or retail uses
which support the residential uses located therein or otherwise located in the
Village.
   C.   Nonresidential land uses of a religious, institutional, cultural, or
recreational character may be included within a Planned Residential
Development, to the extent that they are integrated with the residential land
use. Any such nonresidential uses in a Planned Residential Development shall be
reasonably compatible in scope and appearance with the residential structures.
   D.   Residential uses may include any of the following types of structures:
      1.   Single-family detached.
      2.   Townhome.
      3.   Two-family, or duplex.
      4.   Quadraplex.
      5.   Condominium building.
   E.   There may be more than one principal building on a zoning lot. Cluster
subdivisions, as defined in this article, or zero lot line developments, may be
allowed. (Ord. 05-02, 2-10-2005)
   F.   Wind energy systems shall also be included among the uses allowed in a
Planned Residential Development, subject to the requirements otherwise set
forth in chapter 5, article XVII of this Code. Provided, however, as to any
such wind energy system not specifically described in and approved as part of
the initial Planned Residential Development approval, the owner of any lot or
lots in said Planned Residential Development desiring to erect or install any
wind energy system shall make application for a special use, pursuant to
subsection 6-14-3H of this chapter, without the need for amending the final
development plan or the Planned Residential Development approval ordinance for
the development for such purpose. (Ord. 11-20, 9-1-2011)
   G.   Solar Energy Systems which are building-mounted, and building-
integrated solar energy systems, shall also be included among the uses allowed
in a Planned Residential Development, subject to the requirements otherwise set
forth in chapter 5, article XVIII of this Code. Provided, however, as to any
such Solar Energy System which is a building-mounted solar energy system which
is non- flush mounted and which was not specifically described in and approved
as part of the initial Large Scale Business Planned Development approval, the
owner of any lot or lots in said Planned Development desiring to erect or
install such non-flush mounted Solar Energy System shall make application for a
special use, pursuant to subsection 6-14-3H of this chapter, without the need
for amending the final development plan or the Large Scale Business Planned
Development approval ordinance for the development of such building-mounted
non-flush mounted Solar Energy System. (Ord. 18-38, 11-1-2018)
6-18-5: OBJECTIVES:
   A.   Planned Residential Developments must meet the following objectives:
      1.   Aid in sustaining property values in the Village.
      2.   Provide appropriate access to and from adjacent arterial roadways.
      3.   Foster varied, but harmonious architecture among all residential
structures; and between residential structures and adjacent commercial
structures.
      4.   Provide such variety of residential types as is necessary and
advisable for the economic vitality of the Village.
   B.   Planned Residential Developments will be expected to utilize design
guidelines based on smart growth, traditional neighborhood design, and/or
conservation design principles, to the extent reasonably practicable. (Ord. 05-
02, 2-10-2005)
6-18-6: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Development Controls:
      1.   The development controls otherwise set forth in the zoning and
subdivision regulations may restrict imaginative development. It is the intent
of these provisions to permit review of an integrated site proposal, where it
affords the Village benefits that will enhance the quality of life for its
residents. Therefore, the bulk and use regulations of the zoning regulations
which would otherwise govern the type(s) of use in the proposed development,
and the subdivision regulations, may be modified for a Planned Residential
Development.
      2.   The provisions of this article are not intended, and shall not be
used, as a means to circumvent the procedures or standards of the zoning and
subdivision regulations, and thereby permit a diminished quality of development
than is otherwise permitted under the strict interpretation of the zoning and
subdivision regulations. Rather, these provisions are intended to take
advantage of particular site characteristics, to increase the flexibility and
originality of design in residential projects, to provide more open space and
recreational opportunities than would otherwise occur, and to promote the
protection of high quality natural resources, and where applicable, to enhance
transitions between dissimilar land uses.
      3.   The unique characteristics of the land to be developed, and the
uniqueness of the proposed development plan, shall be considered by the village
when reviewing and determining the degree of flexibility to be afforded the
petitioner.
   B.   Standards: The following standards shall apply to review and approval
of a planned residential development; provided, however, the Planning and
Zoning Commission may recommend, and the village board may approve, such
exceptions from these standards as are determined appropriate to achieve one of
the objectives of subsection
6-18-5A of this article:
      1.   Unified Control: The proposed planned residential development shall
be under unified control.
      2.   Comprehensive Plan: The proposed planned residential development
shall strive to conform to the land uses, intent, and spirit of the
comprehensive plan.
      3.   Compatibility: Uses proposed for a planned residential development
shall be compatible with surrounding land uses.
      4.   Subdivided: Preliminary and final plats of subdivision shall be
submitted.
      5.   Yards: The yards required along the periphery of a planned
residential development shall be at least equal in depth to those prescribed by
the regulations which would otherwise apply to the type(s) of use proposed for
the planned residential development. The village may approve greater setbacks
from the boundary line of a planned residential development when determined
necessary to protect the privacy of residents in either an existing, or any
other proposed, subdivision.
      6.   Landscaping: At a minimum, the proposed planned residential
development shall conform to the landscaping requirements set forth in
chapter 7, “Subdivision Regulations,” of this code. The village may approve
landscaping features in excess of said standards where determined necessary to
achieve the objectives set forth in this article.
      7.   Trails: Paths and/or trails for hiking, biking, equestrian or other
use should be constructed in residential areas, and as connections to natural
features. In addition, paths and/or trails should be provided for convenient
access for pedestrians between residential areas.
      8.   Public Streets:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection B8b of this section, all streets
shall be publicly dedicated, and constructed in accordance with applicable
standards contained in the village's subdivision code, as may be amended from
time to time.
         b.   The village may approve reduced rights of way or pavement width
in residential areas if it is determined to be appropriate to foster the rural
character of the subject area, to preserve natural features, or for other good
reason.
         c.   In any residential areas, cross connections to adjacent tracts of
land, and to existing road stubs, should be provided.
      9.   Vehicular Access: Points of vehicular ingress and egress to the
planned residential development site shall be designed to maintain the safety
and operational efficiency of the village's streets. Cross access (at least, by
road stubs) between the planned residential development and outside properties
shall be provided where feasible.
      10.   Size Of Development: The minimum size for a planned residential
development is fifty (50) acres.
      11.   Underground Utilities: All utilities (including electric,
telephone, gas and cable television) shall be installed underground.
      12.   Tree Replacement: The petitioner should evidence substantial
compliance with the village's tree replacement policy.
      13.   Preliminary Approval: Preliminary approval of a planned residential
development by the village board shall be null and void, in the event that the
petitioner has failed to submit for and diligently pursue approval of a final
development plan for at least one phase of the proposed development within
twelve (12) months of the date of approval of the preliminary plan.
      14.   Completion: Construction of the planned residential development
shall be substantially completed within the period of time proposed by the
petitioner and established in the development ordinance, provided, the
petitioner may request and the board of trustees may approve an extension of
time for good cause shown. In general, each phase of a planned residential
development should be completed within two (2) years of the date of approval of
the final plat for such phase; the board of trustees may allow a longer time,
when the scope or complexity of the development may require it.
      15.   Compliance with Zoning or Other Codes and Ordinances: Where there
is a conflict between the provisions of this article and any other provision or
provisions of this code, the provisions of this article shall prevail. Except
as otherwise set forth herein, all other applicable village code provisions
shall apply to the planned residential development.
      16.   Exceptions: The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend, and
the village board may approve, exceptions to the standards and criteria set
forth in this article when determined by the village to be necessary to achieve
the planning objectives set forth in this article. (Ord. 05-02, 2-10-2005; amd.
Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
6-18-7: RESIDENTIAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Open Space/Greenbelt: Open space shall be provided for village
residents in the form of parks, greenbelts, open space and recreational
facilities, consistent with regulatory and policy directives of the village and
the provisions of this article.
      1.   Unless otherwise recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission
and approved by the village board, or unless otherwise provided by annexation
agreement, not less than forty percent (40%) of the land within a planned
residential development shall be designated as open space, greenbelt and/or
recreational facilities.
      2.   The land described in subsection A.1. of this section shall be
credited against any requirement for the dedication of land, or payment of cash
in lieu thereof, otherwise required to be dedicated or paid for public use
pursuant to the village code or policy.
      3.   Where parks and greenbelts illustrated on the village's
comprehensive land use plan are located in any proposed planned residential
development, the village may require dedication of the land necessary for such
parks or greenbelts. In the alternative, the village may require contributions
of cash in lieu of dedication of such land.
      4.   Unless otherwise prescribed by the village, designated open space,
greenbelts or public recreational facilities reserved under a planned
residential development shall be held and maintained by a homeowners'
association, until conveyed to a public authority approved by the village
board. Such designated open space shall be for the benefit and use of all
village residents.
      5.   All designated open space, greenbelts and/or recreational facilities
shall be dedicated as open space in perpetuity, and shall be so designated in
the development ordinance and final plat of subdivision recorded for the
planned residential development.
      6.   Any cost of improving open space or greenbelts, or constructing
recreational facilities proposed as part of a planned residential development,
shall be included in the letter of credit or other surety required for the
public or quasi-public improvements as more fully described in the village's
subdivision code.
      7.   Open space shall be suitably improved for its intended use;
provided, natural features contained within any proposed open space deemed, in
the sole judgment of the village, to be worthy of preservation, may be left
unimproved.
      8.   No portion of a planned residential development shall be conveyed as
public open space, greenbelt or recreation to any public body except as
approved by the village board.
      9.   For the purposes of this article, recreational facilities and open
space provided as part of the planned residential development shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
         a.   Park.
         b.   Greenbelt.
         c.   Golf course.
         d.   Swimming pool.
         e.   Community center.
         f.   Health club.
         g.   Tennis court.
         h.   Jogging/hiking trail.
         i.   Physical fitness course.
         j.   Conservation area.
         k.   School.
         l.   Municipal use area.
         m.   Wildlife habitat/native plant preservation area.
         n.   Mature stands of trees to be preserved.
      10.   Not less than thirty percent (30%) of the total open space of any
planned residential development shall be unencumbered by environmental
resources such as wetlands, streams, floodplains, floodways, creeks, or the
like that render such space unusable for active recreation purposes.
Conversely, not more than seventy percent (70%) of the total open space of any
planned residential development shall consist of an area or areas encumbered by
such environmental resources.
   B.   Density Shift: Density within designated areas of a planned residential
development may be established taking into consideration open space and/or
recreational facilities provided under this section, subject to the limitation
that in no event shall the maximum density in the development exceed 1.75
dwelling units per acre of the total gross area of the entire development.
   C.   Lot Size; Density: For purposes of calculating density, and unless
otherwise recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission and approved by the
board of trustees, actual lot size shall be as provided in the ordinance
approving the planned residential development. Provided, notwithstanding the
above, the Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend and the board of
trustees may require minimum lot sizes that are larger than the minimum
otherwise specified elsewhere in the village zoning regulations, if in the sole
judgment of the village, deemed necessary or advisable to achieve the
objectives of the comprehensive plan or those of this article.
   D.   Design: Dwellings in all planned residential developments shall be
designed to blend with the landscape of which they are a part. Both visual and
acoustical privacy for residents shall be provided by means of site and
architectural design. The village may establish architectural controls as
guidelines and standards for planned residential developments. (Ord. 05-02, 2-
10-2005; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
6-18-8: PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Filing: A petition for establishment of a planned residential
development district shall be filed with the village clerk.
   B.   Preapplication Conference: No petition shall be accepted by the clerk
unless and until a preapplication conference shall have been conducted with
such village consultants, and other representatives of the village, as are from
time to time designated for such purpose by the village president.
      1.   The preapplication conference shall be for the purpose of reviewing
the proposed planned residential development in light of the village's
comprehensive plan, the existing zoning and land use in the general area of the
development, proposed land uses in the planned residential development,
existing facilities for municipal services, the village's planning and zoning
objectives, and other pertinent factors.
      2.   The applicant shall present a sketch plan, showing the boundaries of
the property, relationship to existing highways and streets, proposed layout of
major streets, significant land features, and existing buildings.
      3.   The prospective applicant shall also provide a written statement
describing the following:
         a.   Statement of ownership, including:
            (1)   Disclosure of interest.
            (2)   Letter of authorization.
            (3)   Identification of owners of beneficial interest.
            (4)   Title insurance policy, or most recent deed of record.
         b.   A description of contiguity (if the territory is subject to
annexation).
         c.   The proposed land uses, residential lot sizes and residential
density.
         d.   Water supply and wastewater transmission and treatment services.
         e.   Other significant features of the proposed planned residential
development.
         f.   Preliminary implementation schedule.
      4.   The applicant shall provide to the village clerk not less than six
(6) copies of the sketch plan and the written statement prior to the
preapplication conference.
      5.   The prospective applicant shall comply with the village policy as
established from time to time regarding deposit of funds as security for
payment or reimbursement of consultant fees incurred by the village prior to
the preapplication conference.
      6.   The conference shall constitute an informal discussion regarding the
proposal, and shall not be held to result in any commitment by or be deemed
binding on the village, but shall be for the guidance of the prospective
applicant.
      7.   The village may, at its discretion, require plans and supporting
documentation to be revised before referring the matter to the Planning &
Zoning Commission and the village board for concept plan review; and may
require additional meetings between the prospective applicant and the village,
to assure that the proposed planned residential development conforms, to the
maximum extent possible, with applicable provisions, goals, and policies of the
village.
   C.   Concept Plan: A concept plan for the development shall be filed with
the village clerk as part of the petition for establishment of a planned
residential development district. The applicant shall provide the village not
less than twenty (20) copies of the concept plan upon filing.
      1.   The purpose of the concept plan is to enable the applicant to obtain
the opinions and comments of the village board and Planning and Zoning
Commission before incurring considerable time and expense in the preparation of
a detailed preliminary plan for the proposed development.
      2.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the concept plan,
and recommend approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval of the concept
plan, and forward said recommendation together with any pertinent comments to
the board of trustees.
      3.   No formal action shall be taken by the board of trustees in regard
to any concept plan; but the board shall make such comments upon the concept
plan, and the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, as it deems
necessary and advisable for the guidance of the applicant.
      4.   The board of trustees may accept as a concept plan under these
regulations a concept plan approved prior to the adoption of these regulations,
and the developer may proceed to submit a preliminary development plan for
approval. Further, such preliminary development plan shall be filed within six
(6) months of the date of adoption of these regulations, for purposes of
subsection D of this section.
   D.   Filing of Plan: The applicant may thereafter file with the village
clerk a preliminary development plan, provided any such preliminary development
plan shall be so filed not later than six (6) months after the last date of
consideration of the concept plan by the board of trustees at one of its
meetings. The applicant shall provide the village with not less than twenty
seven (27) copies of the preliminary development plan upon filing. All required
materials shall be included in the submittal; and the submittal shall be
delivered to the village clerk not less than twenty one (21) days prior to the
meeting of the Planning & Zoning Commission at which the submittals shall first
be considered.
      1.   The purpose of the preliminary development plan is to obtain
approval from the village that the plan, design, and program for the
development are acceptable, and the petitioner may proceed on that basis to
final planning. The preliminary development plan is a relatively detailed
submission that assures the petitioner that he can proceed to prepare a final
development plan with the assurance that any final development plan that
substantially conforms to the preliminary development plan will be approved by
the village.
      2.   The chair of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall first
determine if the materials submitted are complete in accord with the
requirements of this article. If the submittal is incomplete then the chair
shall inform the petitioner in writing as to the deficiencies in the documents
and information to complete the submittal so as to warrant further village
review. Upon receipt of complete materials, the matter shall be scheduled for
public hearing in accordance with this subsection.
      3.   The village engineer shall prepare a report which shall evaluate the
proposed planned residential development for compliance with applicable codes
and ordinances; the village may also request such reports from the village
attorney or other village consultants. The village shall make such reports
available to the petitioner prior to the meeting.
      4.   A preliminary development plan shall include the various items
required to be included in a preliminary plan under subsection
7-2-3B of this code, and the following information and/or documentation:
         a.   Narrative statement of the planning objectives met by the
proposed planned residential development, including a description of its
character, the rationale behind the plan, a statement of conformance with the
objectives and standards for a planned residential development as set forth in
this article; and a statement of conformance with the comprehensive plan of the
village.
         b.   Development schedule indicating the approximate date when
construction of the planned residential development or its various stages can
be expected to begin and be completed.
         c.   General analysis of the impact of the development on traffic
facilities.
         d.   General analysis of the impact of the development on municipal
utilities.
         e.   Data sheet containing the following:
            (1)   Net acreages devoted to each proposed land use type,
including, but not limited to, parks, open space, and streets;
            (2)   Total number and types of proposed dwelling units, including
range of square footage, anticipated bedroom mix, and estimated selling price
of dwelling units, if applicable;
            (3)   Estimated population by housing type broken into elementary
school, middle school, high school, and adult groupings, having reference to
the table of ultimate estimated population utilized by the village at the time
of application (see
chapter 14 of this code);
            (4)   Existing improvements, including the location, widths and
names of all existing or previously platted streets or other rights of way
showing type of improvement (if any); railroad and utility rights of way; parks
and other public open spaces; buildings and structures; historic sites; and
landmarks.
         f.   Miscellaneous information required as follows:
            (1)   Draft of proposed annexation agreement, if applicable;
            (2)   Architectural elevations for all proposed housing types;
            (3)   General landscape plan indicating the treatment of common
open spaces and the location of required buffer areas.
         g.   A list of variations from the standards established by the zoning
regulations which would otherwise apply for each type of proposed land use.
         h.   Any additional information requested by the village to evaluate
the character and impact of the proposed planned residential development.
   E.   Petition For Establishment: The procedure for action on a petition for
establishment of a planned residential development district, and approval of a
preliminary development plan, before the Planning and Zoning Commission, and
board of trustees shall be as follows:
      1.   The Planning and Zoning Commission, within forty-five (45) days
after a complete petition for establishment of a planned residential
development district, and for approval of a preliminary development plan, has
been filed with the Village Clerk, or within such time as may be agreed by the
applicant, conduct a public hearing to consider all aspects of the petition,
and the preliminary development plan, including all proposed stages and/or
units of development.
         a.   Notice of the time and place of said public hearing shall be
given not less than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30) days before said
hearing, by publishing a notice thereof in a newspaper published or generally
circulated in the village; and by posting notice thereof on the subject
property in accordance with the requirements of subsection
6-14-3G6 of this chapter.
         b.   Within forty-five (45) days after the public hearing on such
plan, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall prepare and transmit to the
village board and to the applicant the following:
            (1)   Specific findings of fact with respect to the extent to which
the petition and the preliminary development plan, and each of them, complies
with the standards set out in this article; and
            (2)   Recommendations to the village board with respect to the
action to be taken on the petition and the preliminary development plan.
      2.   The plan commission may recommend disapproval, approval, or approval
with amendments, conditions or restrictions as to the petition, and the
preliminary development plan.
      3.   The zoning board of appeals shall, within forty five (45) days after
receiving the findings and recommendations of the plan commission, conduct a
public hearing to consider all aspects of the petition, and the preliminary
development plan, including all proposed stages and/or units of development.
         a.   Notice of the time and place of said public hearing shall be
given not less than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30) days before said
hearing, by publishing a notice thereof in a newspaper published or generally
circulated in the village; and by posting notice thereof on the subject
property in accordance with the requirements of subsection
6-14-3G6 of this chapter.
         b.   Within forty five (45) days after the public hearing on such
plan, the zoning board of appeals shall prepare and transmit to the village
board and to the applicant the following:
            (1)   Specific findings of fact with respect to the extent to which
the petition and the preliminary development plan, and each of them, complies
with the standards set out in this article; and
            (2)   Recommendations to the village board with respect to the
action to be taken on the petition and the preliminary development plan.
      4.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend disapproval,
approval, or approval with amendments, conditions or restrictions as to the
petition and the preliminary development plan.
      5.   At the discretion of the village board, the public hearing before
the plan commission, and the public hearing before the zoning board of appeals,
described in this section, may be combined for purposes of taking comment, and
a joint public hearing may be conducted for that purpose; provided, the plan
commission shall make its recommendation and forward same to the zoning board
of appeals prior to the time that the zoning board of appeals shall consider
the petition and make its recommendation to the village board.
      6.   The village board shall approve, approve with conditions, or
disapprove the petition, and the preliminary development plan, within sixty
(60) days after it receives the findings and recommendations of the Planning
and Zoning Commission, unless said time is extended by mutual consent of the
village board and applicant.
      7.   Approval by the board of trustees of the preliminary development
plan shall constitute acceptance of the planned residential development,
subject to approval of final development plan(s) as provided below. Approval of
the preliminary development plan by the village board shall be effective for a
period of twenty four (24) months, provided the village board may allow a
longer period of time or waive the time requirement in its entirety. (Ord. 05-
02, 2-10-2005; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
6-18-9: FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   The developer shall file an application for approval of a final
development plan with the village. The applicant shall provide the village with
not less than twenty (20) copies of the final development plan upon filing.
   B.   The application for final development plan shall include the following
information, and any additional information that is pertinent to the proposed
development, including information relating to any modifications to the
preliminary development plan as the board of trustees may have deemed necessary
or advisable and shall have specified in its approval of the preliminary
development plan; and all information shall be presented on acceptable
reproducible material:
      1.   Final development plat information, as set forth in subsection
7-2-4B of this code.
      2.   Detailed engineering plans and specifications for the development
improvements, including, but not limited to, land grading, site preparation,
streets, utilities, drainage, and any other requirements of the village's
subdivision regulations as set forth in subsection
7-2-4C of this code.
      3.   Proof that the developer has acquired legal title to all land within
the proposed development, is the contract purchaser of the land, or that the
land is otherwise under unified control;
      4.   Articles of incorporation and bylaws for any property owners'
association to be established;
      5.   Restrictive covenants and other legal instruments deemed necessary
to guarantee the proper upkeep and use of the common open space and
recreational facilities therein; and
      6.   Restrictive covenants whereby the owner proposes to regulate and
maintain land uses in general, and other features, of the proposed development.
      7.   Performance guarantee in compliance with subsection
7-2-4D of this code and applicable law.
   C.   The application for approval of final development plan shall be in
substantial compliance with the preliminary development plan as approved. The
application may request approval of a final development plan for all or any
phase of the development; provided:
      1.   A final development plan for the first phase of the development
shall have been submitted for approval no later than twelve (12) months after
the approval of the preliminary development plan; and
      2.   A final development plan or plans covering the entire area of the
planned residential development shall have been submitted to the village for
approval in accord with any time limitations established as a condition for
approval of the preliminary development plan, or not later than twenty (20)
years after the date of approval of the preliminary development plan, whichever
is later.
      3.   Upon application of the owner and/or developer of the subject
property, the board of trustees may at any time and from time to time extend
the period of time for such submission(s).
   D.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the application for
approval of the final development plan:
      1.   If the final development plan is in substantial compliance with the
preliminary development plan, and the application for final approval has been
filed with such supporting materials as the village requires, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall, within thirty (30) days of such filing, consider the
final development plan and at such time or as soon thereafter as is practicable
recommend approval thereof.
      2.   If the final development plan is not in substantial compliance with
the preliminary development plan as approved, a public hearing to consider the
final development plan shall be held before the Planning and Zoning Commission.
         a.   Any modification in the location of streets, facilities for water
supply or wastewater treatment, or facilities for storm water detention,
retention or conveyance shall not be considered to be a substantial change, and
no public hearing shall be required as to any such modification, unless such
modification results in a reduction in the availability of streets or such
facilities in the proposed development area.
         b.   Following such public hearing, the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall recommend approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval of the final
development plan, and forward said recommendation to the board of trustees.
   E.   Within forty five (45) days after receiving findings and
recommendations from the Planning and Zoning Commission, the village board
shall review and approve any final development plan which is in substantial
compliance with the preliminary development plan. If the final development plan
is not in substantial compliance with the preliminary development plan, the
board of trustees shall review and approve, approve with conditions, or
disapprove the proposed final development plan.
      1.   The village may require, as a condition for its approval of any
final development plan, that:
         a.   The final development plan must bear on its face the name of its
preparer, the date of preparation, and the date of any revisions;
         b.   The final development plan must be accompanied by final
engineering plans and specifications, and an estimate of costs for any and all
public improvements shown in the final development plan, which estimate shall
be subject to the reasonable approval of the village engineer;
         c.   The final development plan must be accompanied by an appropriate
completion bond, irrevocable letter of credit, or cash, in accord with the
requirements specified by subsection 7-2-4D of this code;
         d.   The final development plan and all development pursuant to the
final development plan shall be in compliance with all other applicable codes,
regulations, statutes and laws pertaining to the proposed development.
   F.   Any planned residential development shall be developed only in
substantial compliance with the final development plan approved by the board of
trustees. (Ord. 05-02, 2-10-2005; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
6-18-10: CONTRIBUTIONS:
The owner and/or developer of any planned residential development shall, unless
expressly relieved of the obligation by the corporate authorities, make such
contributions of cash, land, or combination thereof, as shall satisfy the
provisions of any annexation agreement, development agreement, or other
agreement concerning the subject property in regard thereto, and/or the
requirements of
chapter 14 of this code, as the case may be. (Ord. 05-02, 2-10-2005; amd. Ord.
21-15, 4-15-2021)
6-18-11: AMENDMENTS:
A preliminary or final development plan may be amended, upon request of the
owner and/or developer of the subject property, but only after a public hearing
has been held and a recommendation has been made by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, and after review and approval by the board of trustees, pursuant to
the provisions of this article. (Ord. 05-02, 2-10-2005; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-
2021)
6-18-12: LIMITATION/RECLASSIFICATION OF SUBJECT PROPERTY; REVOCATION OF
APPROVAL OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
If no construction of the improvements included in the final development plan
shall have commenced within two (2) years after the date of approval of said
plan, and thereafter in accord with any time limitations which may have been
included in the conditions for approval of the final development plan, the
zoning administrator of the village may file with the village clerk an
application for a map amendment reclassifying the subject property from planned
residential development district to the most restrictive zoning district that
is consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the comprehensive
plan, as determined by the zoning administrator; and the application for such
amendment shall be considered by the village in accord with the requirements of
subsection 6-14-3G of this chapter. In addition, the board of trustees may by
resolution duly enacted revoke the approval of the final development plan under
such circumstances. The board of trustees may, in its approval of the
preliminary development plan, amend or eliminate the requirement of this
section as it deems necessary or advisable in light of the scope of the planned
residential development. (Ord. 05-02, 2-10-2005)
ARTICLE XIX
COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND ANTENNAS
SECTION:
6-19-1: Purpose And Goals
6-19-2: Definitions
6-19-3: Applicability
6-19-4: General Requirements
6-19-5: Permitted Uses
6-19-6: Administratively Approved Uses
6-19-7: Special Use Permits
6-19-8: Equipment Buildings Or Cabinets And Other Related Facilities
6-19-9: Abandoned Antennas And Towers
6-19-10: Nonconforming Uses
6-19-11: Annual Report
6-19-12: Fee
6-19-1: PURPOSE AND GOALS:
   A.   The purpose of this article is to establish general guidelines for the
siting of wireless communications towers and antennas in the village.
   B.   The goals of this article are to:
      1.   Protect residential areas and land uses by minimizing the potential
adverse impacts of towers and antennas;
      2.   Encourage the location of towers and antennas in nonresidential
areas;
      3.   Minimize the total number of towers located in the community;
      4.   Promote and encourage the shared use of tower sites as a primary
option, rather than construction of additional single use structures;
      5.   Encourage users of towers and antennas to locate them, to the extent
possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the community is minimal;
      6.   Encourage users of towers and antennas to configure them in a way
that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the towers and antennas and
accessory buildings by means of careful siting, design, landscape screening,
and innovative camouflaging techniques;
      7.   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications services
to provide such services to the community quickly, effectively, and
efficiently; and
      8.   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through sound and appropriate engineering and careful siting of tower
structures; and to require removal of such structures when they are no longer
used.
In furtherance of these goals, the village shall give due consideration to its
comprehensive plan, zoning map, existing land uses, and environmentally
sensitive areas in approving sites for the location of towers and antennas.
(Ord. 06-54, 9-21-2006)
6-19-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:
ANTENNA: Any exterior transmitting or receiving device mounted on a tower,
building or structure and used in communications that radiates or captures
electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies
(excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunications signals or other
communication signals.
BACK HAUL NETWORK: The lines that connect any provider's towers/cell sites to
one or more cellular telephone switching offices, and/or long distance
providers, or the public switched telephone network.
FAA: The federal aviation administration.
FCC: The federal communications commission.
FACILITIES: Any tower, antenna, support structure(s), pad, and/or equipment
building or cabinet related thereto.
HEIGHT: When referring to a tower or other structure, the distance measured
from the finished grade of the ground beneath the tower to the highest point on
the tower or other structure, including the base pad and any antenna.
NO IMPACT ANTENNA FACILITY: An antenna facility which is either: a) virtually
invisible to the casual observer, such as an antenna behind louvers on a
building, or inside a steeple or similar structure; or b) camouflaged so as to
blend in with its surroundings to such an extent that it is no more obtrusive
to the casual observer than the structure which it is: 1) placed on, such as a
rooftop, lighting standard, or existing tower; or 2) replacing, such as a
school athletic field light standard.
PREEXISTING TOWERS AND PREEXISTING ANTENNAS: Any tower or antenna for which a
building permit or special use permit has been properly issued prior to the
effective date hereof, including permitted towers or antennas that have not yet
been constructed so long as such approval is current and not expired.
TOWER: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose
of supporting one or more antennas for telephone, radio and similar
communication purposes, including self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers,
or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission towers,
microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative
tower structures, and the like. The term includes the structure and any support
thereto. (Ord. 06-54, 9-21-2006)
6-19-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   New Towers And Antennas: Except as otherwise provided in this section,
all new towers or antennas in the village shall be subject to these
regulations.
   B.   Excluded Items:
      1.   Amateur Radio Station Operators/Receive Only Antennas: Any tower, or
any antenna, that is under seventy feet (70') in height and is owned and
operated by a federally licensed amateur radio station operator, or is used
exclusively as a receive only antenna shall not be required to meet the
requirements of this article.
      2.   Preexisting Towers Or Antennas: Preexisting towers and preexisting
antennas shall not be required to meet the requirements of this article, other
than the requirements of subsections 6-19-4F and G, and section
6-19-11 of this article.
      3.   AM Array: For purposes of implementing this article, an AM array,
consisting of one or more tower units and supporting ground system which
functions as one AM broadcasting antenna, shall be considered one tower.
Measurements for setbacks and separation distances shall be measured from the
outer perimeter of the towers included in the AM array. Additional tower units
may be added within the perimeter of the AM array by right. (Ord. 06-54, 9-21-
2006)
6-19-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Principal Or Accessory Use: An antenna or tower may be considered
either a principal or an accessory use. On any lot, an existing use or
structure shall not preclude the installation of an antenna or tower on such
lot.
   B.   Lot Size: For purposes of determining whether the installation of a
tower or antenna complies with applicable regulations, including, but not
limited to, setback requirements, lot coverage requirements, and other such
requirements in the district in which the tower or antenna may be located, the
dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the antennas or towers
may be located on only a portion of such lot.
   C.   Inventory Of Existing Sites: Each application for an antenna and/or
tower shall include an inventory of the applicant's existing towers, antennas,
or sites which have been approved for towers or antennas, or for which
applications or petitions for approval for towers or antennas have been filed,
that are either within the jurisdiction of the village or within one mile of
the border thereof, including specific information about the location, height,
and design of each tower. The village may share such information with other
applicants applying for approvals or special use permits under this article or
other persons or entities seeking to locate towers or antennas within the
jurisdiction of the village; provided, however, that the village is not, by
sharing such information, in any way representing or warranting that such sites
are available or suitable for location of a tower or antenna.
   D.   Aesthetics: Towers and antennas shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Towers either shall be constructed of and maintain a galvanized
steel finish or, subject to any applicable standards of the FAA, shall be
painted so as to reduce visual obtrusiveness.
      2.   At a tower site, the design of the accessory buildings and related
structures shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures,
screening, and landscaping that will blend them into the natural setting and
surrounding buildings.
      3.   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the
antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral
color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the
supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as
visually unobtrusive as possible.
   E.   Lighting: Towers shall not be artificially lighted, unless required by
the FAA or other applicable authority. If lighting is required, the lighting
alternatives and design chosen must cause the least disturbance to the
surrounding views.
   F.   State Or Federal Requirements: All towers must meet or exceed current
standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any other agency of the
state or federal government with the authority to regulate towers and antennas.
If such standards and regulations are altered, changed, or modified after the
date of approval by the village, or construction by the owner, then the owner
of any tower or antenna governed by this article shall bring such tower or
antenna into compliance with such revised standards and regulations within six
(6) months of the effective date of any such standards and regulations, unless
a different compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling state or federal
agency. Failure to bring any tower or antenna into compliance with such revised
standards and regulations within such time shall constitute grounds for the
removal of the tower or antenna at the owner's expense.
   G.   Building Codes; Safety Standards: To ensure the structural integrity of
a tower or antenna, the owner of a tower or antenna shall ensure that it is
maintained in compliance with standards contained in applicable state or local
building codes and the applicable standards for towers that are published by
the Electronic Industries Association, as amended from time to time. If, upon
inspection, the village concludes that a tower fails to comply with such codes
and standards and constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon notice
being provided to the owner of the tower, the owner shall have thirty (30) days
to bring such tower into compliance with such standards. Failure to bring such
tower into compliance within said thirty (30) days shall constitute grounds for
the removal of the tower or antenna at the owner's expense.
   H.   Measurement: For purposes of measurement, tower setbacks and separation
distances shall be calculated and applied to facilities located in the village
irrespective of municipal and county jurisdictional boundaries.
   I.   Not Essential Services: All towers and antennas shall be regulated and
permitted pursuant to this article and shall not be regulated or permitted as
essential services, public utilities, or private utilities.
   J.   Franchises: Any owner and/or operator of a tower or antenna shall
certify that any and all franchises required by law for the construction and/or
operation of the communication system served thereby within the village have
been obtained prior to approval of any application, and shall file a copy of
all agreements, licenses and the like related thereto with the village clerk.
   K.   Public Notice: For purposes of this article, any special use request,
variance request, or appeal of a special use, shall require public notice and
individual notice by the village at applicant's expense to all abutting
property owners and within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the boundaries of
the zoning lot in question. Streets, alleys and watercourses shall not be
considered in the determination of "abutting", nor counted in calculating the
two hundred fifty feet (250'), for purposes of this section.
   L.   Signs: No signs shall be allowed on any antenna or tower, except for
any safety warning or other sign required by applicable regulation.
   M.   Buildings And Support Equipment: Buildings, support equipment and other
facilities associated with any antenna or tower shall comply with the
requirements of section
6-19-8 of this article. (Ord. 06-54, 9-21-2006)
6-19-5: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   General: The uses listed in this section are deemed to be permitted
uses and shall not require any conditional use permit.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are specifically permitted in any
zoning district within the village, so long as said antenna or tower conforms
to all other requirements of this article:
      1.   Any antenna or tower located on property owned, leased, or otherwise
controlled by the village, provided a license or lease authorizing such antenna
or tower has been approved by the village.
      2.   Any no impact antenna or tower. (Ord. 06-54, 9-21-2006)
6-19-6: ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED USES:
   A.   General: The following provisions shall govern the issuance of
administrative approvals for towers and antennas:
      1.   The village may administratively approve the uses listed in this
section, in accordance with the procedures set forth herein.
      2.   Each applicant for administrative approval shall file an application
with the village clerk, including the information set forth in subsection 6-19-
7B1 of this article and a deposit equal to two thousand dollars ($2,000.00)
from which the village shall from time to time pay the application fee, and the
costs of reviewing the application, including fees incurred for any consultant
to review and report on the application. Any balance remaining on said deposit
after final decision of the application shall be refunded to the applicant. The
village board shall from time to time set a fee for such application.
      3.   The village engineer, village building official, and village zoning
administrator shall review the application for administrative approval to
determine if the proposed use complies with the requirements of this article,
and deliver to the village board a recommendation or recommendations regarding
the application.
      4.   The board of trustees shall thereafter review and approve, approve
with conditions, or deny the application, as soon as practicable after receipt
of the recommendation(s) described in subsection A3 of this section.
      5.   In connection with any such application for administrative approval,
the village may, in order to encourage shared use of any facilities, reduce any
setback requirements in subsection 6-19-7B4 of this article, or separation
distances between towers in subsection 6-19-7B5 of this article by up to fifty
percent (50%).
      6.   In connection with any such administrative approval, the village
may, in order to encourage the use of monopoles, allow the reconstruction of an
existing tower to monopole construction.
      7.   If an administrative approval is denied, the applicant shall prior
to filing any appeal which may otherwise be available to the applicant under
the village zoning regulations, file an application for a conditional use
permit pursuant to section
6-19-7 of this article.
   B.   List Of Administratively Approved Uses: The following uses may be
approved by the village after conducting an administrative review:
      1.   Zoning Districts: Antennas or towers located in the following zoning
districts, provided the tower or antenna structure is located no less than two
hundred feet (200') from any residential zoning district boundary line: O-
R office research; O-M office manufacturing; M-1 restricted industrial; M-
2 general industrial; and M-3 industrial zoning districts.
      2.   Existing Towers Or Structures: Locating an antenna on an existing
structure or tower consistent with the terms of subsections B2a and B2b of this
section.
         a.   Antennas On Existing Structures: Any antenna which is not
attached to a tower may be approved by the village as an accessory use to any
commercial, industrial, professional, institutional, or multi-family structure
of eight (8) or more dwelling units, provided:
            (1)   The antenna does not extend more than thirty feet (30') above
the highest point of the structure;
            (2)   The antenna complies with all applicable FCC and FAA
regulations; and
            (3)   The antenna complies with all applicable building codes.
         b.   Antennas On Existing Towers: An antenna which is attached to an
existing tower may be approved by the village and, to minimize adverse visual
impacts associated with the proliferation and clustering of towers, collocation
of antennas by more than one carrier on an existing tower shall take precedence
over the construction of a new tower, provided such collocation is accomplished
in a manner consistent with the following:
            (1)   Collocation: A tower which is modified or reconstructed to
accommodate the collocation of an additional antenna shall be of the same tower
type as the existing tower, unless the village allows reconstruction as a
monopole.
            (2)   Height:
               (A)   An existing tower may be modified or rebuilt to a taller
height, not to exceed thirty feet (30') over the tower's existing height, to
accommodate the collocation of an additional antenna or antennas.
               (B)   The increase in height referred to in subsection B2b(2)(A)
of this section may be allowed only one time per tower.
               (C)   The increase in height referred to in subsection B2b(2)(A)
of this section shall not require an additional distance separation as set
forth in section
6-19-3 of this article. The tower's premodification height shall be used to
calculate distance separation.
            (3)   On Site Location:
               (A)   A tower which is being rebuilt to accommodate the
collocation of an additional antenna may be moved on site within fifty feet
(50') of its existing location.
               (B)   After such tower has been rebuilt to accommodate
collocation, only one tower may remain on the site.
               (C)   For any tower so relocated on site, separation distances
shall continue to be measured from the original tower location for purposes of
subsection 6-19-7B5 of this article. The relocation of a tower hereunder shall
in no way be deemed to cause a violation of subsection 6-19-7B5 of this
article; provided, however, that if such relocation would cause the tower to
come within the separation distance required for any residential units or
residentially zoned land as established in subsection 6-19-7B5 of this article,
the relocation shall be permitted only with approval of the board of trustees.
      3.   New Tower In Nonresidential Zoning District: Locating any new tower
in any business zoning district, provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   A licensed professional engineer certifies the tower can
structurally accommodate the number of shared users proposed by the applicant;
         b.   The village engineer and zoning administrator conclude the tower
is in conformity with the goals set forth in section
6-19-1 of this article and the requirements of section
6-19-4 of this article;
         c.   The tower meets the setback requirements in subsection 6-19-7B4
of this article and separation distances in subsection 6-19-7B5 of this
article; and
         d.   The tower meets the following height and usage criteria:
            (1)   For a single user, up to and including ninety feet (90') in
height;
            (2)   For two (2) users, up to and including one hundred twenty
feet (120') in height;
            (3)   For three (3) or more users, up to and including one hundred
fifty feet (150') in height; and
            (4)   For a monopole, up to and including one hundred ninety feet
(190') in height.
      4.   Cable Installation: Installing a cable microcell network through the
use of multiple low powered transmitters/receivers attached to existing
wireline systems, such as conventional cable or telephone wires, or similar
technology that does not require the use of towers. (Ord. 06-54, 9-21-2006)
6-19-7: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   General: The following provisions shall govern the issuance of special
use permits for towers or antennas by the village:
      1.   If the tower or antenna is not a permitted use under section
6-19-5 of this article, or permitted to be approved administratively pursuant
to section
6-19-6 of this article, then a conditional use permit shall be required for the
construction of a tower or the placement of an antenna.
      2.   Applications for special use permits under this section shall be
subject to the procedures and requirements of the zoning regulations, except as
modified in this section, including recommendation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and approval by the board of trustees of the village.
      3.   In granting a special use permit, the Planning and Zoning Commission
may recommend, and/or the board of trustees may impose conditions to the extent
the village concludes such conditions are necessary to minimize any adverse
effect of the proposed tower and accessory building including extension facade
materials and design on adjoining properties, but such conditions may not have
the effect of prohibiting erection of the tower.
      4.   Any information of an engineering nature that the applicant submits,
whether civil, mechanical, or electrical, shall be certified by a licensed
professional engineer.
      5.   Each applicant for special use shall file an application with the
village clerk, including the information set forth in subsection B1 of this
section and a deposit equal to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), from which
the village shall from time to time pay the application fee, and the costs of
reviewing the application, including fees incurred for any consultant to review
and report on the application. Any balance remaining on said deposit after
final decision of the application shall be refunded to the applicant. The
village board shall from time to time set a fee for such application.
   B.   Towers:
      1.   Information Required: In addition to any information required for
applications for conditional use permits under the zoning regulations,
applicants for a conditional use permit for a tower shall submit the following
information:
         a.   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type and
height of the proposed tower, on site land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses
and zoning (including properties outside the village's boundaries),
comprehensive plan classification of the site and all properties within the
applicable separation distances set forth in subsection B5 of this section,
adjacent roadways, proposed means of access, setbacks from property lines,
elevation drawings of the proposed facilities, topography, parking, and other
information deemed by the village to be necessary to assess compliance with
this article.
         b.   Legal description of the property on which the facilities are to
be located, including a leased parcel (if applicable).
         c.   The setback distance between the proposed tower and the nearest
residential unit, any residentially zoned property (including any unplatted
residentially zoned property), and any other property planned for residential
uses.
         d.   A landscape plan showing specific landscape materials.
         e.   A description of the finished color and, if applicable, the
method of camouflage and illumination, including any fencing.
         f.   A description of applicant's compliance with subsections 6-19-4C,
D, E, F, G, J, L, and M of this article, and subsections B4 and B5 of this
section and all applicable federal, state or local laws.
         g.   A statement by the applicant as to whether construction of the
tower will accommodate collocation of additional antennas for future users.
         h.   A description of the unsuitability of existing towers, other
structures, and/or alternative technology not requiring the use of towers or
structures, to provide the service to be provided by the proposed new tower.
         i.   A description, in the event the proposed tower is erected, of the
feasible location(s) for towers or antennas to be located within the village in
the future, based upon existing physical, engineering, technological or
geographical limitations.
         j.   If the location is leased or to be leased to applicant, agreement
by the owner to terms relating to removal of the tower or antenna and related
facilities, as described in section
6-19-8 of this article.
      2.   Factors Considered In Granting Conditional Use Permits For Towers:
In addition to any standards for consideration of conditional use permit
applications pursuant to subsection
6-14-3H of this chapter, the Planning & Zoning Commission and the board of
trustees shall consider the following factors in determining whether to
recommend issuance of a conditional use permit:
         a.   Height of the proposed tower;
         b.   Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential
district boundaries;
         c.   Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
         d.   Surrounding topography;
         e.   Surrounding tree coverage and foliage;
         f.   Design of the tower, with particular reference to design
characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual
obtrusiveness;
         g.   Proposed ingress and egress; and
         h.   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures, or
alternative technologies not requiring the use of towers or structures, as
discussed in subsection B3 of this section.
      3.   Availability Of Suitable Existing Towers, Other Structures, Or
Alternative Technology: No new tower shall be permitted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the village that no existing
tower, structure or alternative technology that does not require the use of
towers or structures can accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna. An
applicant shall submit information requested by the village related to the
availability of suitable existing towers, other structures or alternative
technology. Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no existing tower, structure
or alternative technology can accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna may
consist of any of the following:
         a.   No existing towers or structures are located within the
geographic area which meet applicant's engineering requirements.
         b.   Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to
meet applicant's engineering requirements.
         c.   Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural
strength to support applicant's proposed antenna and related equipment.
         d.   The applicant's proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures, or the
antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the
applicant's proposed antenna.
         e.   The fees, costs, or other contractual provisions for payment or
expense required by the owner in order to share an existing tower or structure
or to adapt an existing tower or structure for sharing are unreasonable. Total
fees, costs or other contractual provisions for payment or expense which exceed
the cost of developing and constructing a new tower are presumed to be
unreasonable.
         f.   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors
that render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
         g.   The applicant demonstrates that an alternative technology that
does not require the use of towers or structures, such as a cable microcell
network using multiple low powered transmitters/receivers attached to a
wireline system, is unsuitable. It shall not be presumed that merely because
costs of alternative technology exceed the cost of developing a new tower or
antenna that the alternative technology is unsuitable.
      4.   Setbacks: The following setback requirements shall apply to all
towers for which a special use permit is required:
         a.   Towers must be set back a distance equal to at least seventy five
percent (75%) of the height of the tower from any adjoining lot line, except
that a monopole needs to be set back a distance equal to twenty five percent
(25%) of its height.
         b.   Guys and accessory buildings must satisfy the minimum zoning
district setback requirements, including the provision of transitional yards,
if required.
      5.   Separation: The following separation requirements shall apply to all
towers and antennas for which a conditional use permit is required:
         a.   Separation From Off Site Uses/Designated Areas:
            (1)   Tower separation shall be measured from the base of the tower
to the lot line of the off site uses and/or designated areas as specified in
table 1 including the exceptions noted therein.
            (2)   Separation requirements for towers shall comply with the
minimum standards established in table 1 of this section.
         b.   New Towers: Separation distances between towers shall be
applicable for new towers, and shall be measured as the distance between the
proposed tower and any preexisting towers. The separation distances shall be
measured by drawing or following a straight line between the base of the
existing tower and the proposed base, pursuant to a site plan, of the proposed
tower. The separation distances (listed in linear feet) shall be as shown in
table 2 of this section.
TABLE 1
SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS
 
Off Site Use/Designated Area            Separation Distance
Single-family or duplex residential     200 feet
units principal building
Vacant single-family or duplex
residentially zoned land which is
either platted or has preliminary       500 feet
subdivision plan approval which is not
expired
Vacant unplatted residentially zoned    500 feet
lands
Existing multi-family residential units 100 feet or 100 percent of tower height
greater than duplex units               whichever is greater
Nonresidentially zoned lands or         None; only setbacks apply
nonresidential uses
 
Notes:
   1.   Includes modular homes and mobile homes used for living purposes.
   2.   Separation measured from base of tower to closest principal building
setback line.
   3.   Includes any unplatted residential use properties without a valid
preliminary subdivision plan or valid development plan approval and any multi-
family residentially zoned land greater than duplex.
TABLE 2
SEPARATION DISTANCES BETWEEN TOWERS
 
Types Of Towers/Separation Distance
                      Lattice Guyed 75 Feet In Height Or Less Than 75 Feet In
                                    Greater              Height
Lattice               5,000   5,000 1,500                750
Guyed                 5,000   5,000 1,500                750
Monopole 75 feet in   1,500   1,500 1,500                750
height or greater
Monopole less than 75 750     750   750                  750
feet in height
 
      6.   Security Fencing: Towers shall be enclosed by security fencing not
less than six feet (6') in height and shall also be equipped with an
appropriate anticlimbing device; or designed to discourage climbing; to be
provided however, that the Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend and the
board of trustees may approve a waiver of such requirement as it deems
appropriate.
      7.   Landscaping: The following requirements shall govern the landscaping
surrounding towers for which a special use permit is required; provided,
however, that the Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend, and the board
of trustees may approve, a waiver of such requirements if the goals of this
article would be better served thereby.
         a.   Tower facilities shall be landscaped with a buffer of plant
materials that effectively screens the view of the tower compound from property
used for residences. The standard buffer shall consist of a landscaped strip at
least four feet (4') wide outside the perimeter of the compound.
         b.   In locations where the visual impact of the tower would be
minimal, the landscaping requirement may be reduced or waived.
         c.   Existing mature tree growth and natural land forms on the site
shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible. In some cases, such as
towers sited on large, wooded lots, natural growth around the property
perimeter may be sufficient buffer.
   C.   Waiver Of Requirements: The Planning and Zoning Commission may
recommend, and/or the board of trustees may approve, a waiver or reduction of
the burden of any one or more of the criteria set forth in this section if
either respectively concludes that the purposes and goals of this article would
be better served thereby; and specifically as to the setback requirement of
subsection B4 of this section, may reduce the standard if enforcement of the
requirement would effectively prohibit the proposed facilities. 
   D.   Modification Of Building Size Requirements: The requirements of this
section may be varied by the village in the case of administratively approved
uses or by recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, and/or
approval by the board of trustees in the case of uses permitted by special use,
in order to accommodate or encourage collocation. (Ord. 06-54, 9-21-2006; amd.
Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
6-19-8: EQUIPMENT BUILDINGS OR CABINETS AND OTHER RELATED FACILITIES:
The equipment building or cabinet, and other related facilities, used in
association with a tower or antenna shall comply with the following:
   A.   Antenna Mounted On A Structure Or Rooftop:
      1.   For any structure or rooftop which is less than sixty five feet
(65') in height, the related equipment building or cabinet, and other
facilities, if greater than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of gross floor
area in size, or greater than ten feet (10') in height, shall be located on the
ground and shall not be located on the roof of the structure.
      2.   For any other structure or rooftop, the related equipment building
or cabinet, and other related facilities shall contain not more than four
hundred fifty (450) square feet of gross floor area, and be not more than
fifteen feet (15') in height; provided, when located on a rooftop, such
building, cabinet and other related facilities shall also occupy no more than
two hundred (200) square feet and in any case not to exceed twenty five percent
(25%) of the square footage of the roof area.
      3.   Equipment storage buildings or cabinets shall comply with all
applicable building codes.
   B.   Antenna Mounted On A Utility Pole Or Light Pole:
      1.   In residential zoning districts, the equipment cabinet or structure
may be located:
         a.   In a front or side yard, provided the equipment building or
cabinet and related facilities are no greater than twenty four (24) square feet
in size, and not more than four feet (4') in height, and the building or
cabinet and related facilities are located a minimum of six feet (6') from all
lot lines. Such building or cabinet and related facilities shall be screened by
an evergreen hedge with a planted height of at least thirty six inches (36"),
and an ultimate height of at least forty two inches (42") to forty eight inches
(48").
         b.   In a rear yard, provided the equipment building or cabinet and
related facilities are no greater than two hundred forty (240) square feet in
gross floor area, and no greater than six feet (6') in height. Such building or
cabinet and related facilities shall be screened by an evergreen hedge with a
planted height of at least thirty six inches (36") and an ultimate height of
eight feet (8').
      2.   In all business and industrial districts, any equipment building or
cabinet and related facilities shall be no greater than sixty four (64) square
feet in gross floor area and no greater than six feet (6') in height.
         a.   Any equipment building or cabinet and related facilities shall be
screened from view of all residential properties which abut or are directly
across the street from such building or cabinet and related facilities by a
solid fence six feet (6') in height or an evergreen hedge with a planted height
of at least thirty six inches (36") and an ultimate height of eight feet (8').
         b.   Otherwise, any such building or cabinet and related facilities
shall be screened by an evergreen hedge with a planted height of at least
thirty six inches (36") and an ultimate height of eight feet (8').
   C.   Antenna Located On A Tower: Any equipment building or cabinet and
related facilities shall contain not more than two hundred forty (240) square
feet of gross floor area or be more than ten feet (10') in height, and shall be
located in accordance with the minimum yard requirements of the zoning district
in which the antenna and tower are located.
   D.   Modification Of Building Size Requirements: The requirements of this
section may be varied by the village in the case of administratively approved
uses or by recommendation of the zoning board of appeals, and/or approval by
the board of trustees in the case of uses permitted by special use, in order to
accommodate or encourage collocation. (Ord. 06-54, 9-21-2006)
6-19-9: ABANDONED ANTENNAS AND TOWERS:
   A.   Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous period of
twelve (12) months, or which fails to comply with the requirements of
subsection 6-19-4F or G of this article, shall be considered abandoned, and the
owner of such antenna or tower shall remove the same within ninety (90) days of
receipt of notice from the village notifying the owner of such abandonment.
      1.   Failure to remove an abandoned antenna or tower within said ninety
(90) days shall be grounds for the village to remove the tower or antenna at
the owner's expense, and the village shall thereupon have a lien on the
property, including the landlord's interest in same, to secure its reasonable
costs of removal, including reasonable attorney fees incurred, and to secure
judicial approval of removal and to enforce said lien.
      2.   If there are two (2) or more users of a single tower, then this
provision shall not become effective until all users cease using the tower.
(Ord. 06-54, 9-21-2006)
6-19-10: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Expansion Of Nonconforming Use: Towers that are constructed, and
antennas that are installed, in accordance with the provisions of this article
shall not be deemed to constitute the expansion of a nonconforming use or
structure.
   B.   Preexisting Towers: Preexisting towers shall be allowed to continue
such use as exists at the time of adoption of these regulations. Routine
maintenance shall be permitted on such preexisting towers, which shall include
replacement with a new tower of like construction and height, provided such new
construction otherwise shall comply with the requirements of this article.
   C.   Rebuilding Of Damaged Or Destroyed Nonconforming Towers Or Antennas:
Notwithstanding section
6-19-9 of this article, a nonconforming tower or antenna that is damaged or
destroyed may be rebuilt without having to first obtain administrative approval
or a special use permit, and without having to meet the separation requirements
specified in subsections 6-19-7B4 and B5 of this article.
      1.   The type, height, and location of the tower on site shall be of the
same type and intensity as the original facility approval.
      2.   A building permit to rebuild the facility shall comply with the then
applicable building codes and shall be obtained within one hundred eighty (180)
days from the date the tower or antenna is damaged or destroyed.
      3.   If no permit is obtained within said time, or if such permit
thereafter expires, the tower or antenna shall be deemed abandoned as specified
in section
6-19-9 of this article. (Ord. 06-54, 9-21-2006)
6-19-11: ANNUAL REPORT:
   A.   Each owner of an antenna, antenna structure, or tower regulated under
this article, and any previously existing antenna, antenna structure, or tower
which would have been regulated under this article had it existed at the time a
permit for or construction of such facility, shall, on an annual basis, file
with the village clerk such information as is required by the village to aid
with the administration of this article.
   B.   Such information shall include:
      1.   Changes in availability of space on any tower for collocation of
additional antennas,
      2.   Any plan to abandon a position on a tower (thereby leaving space for
the possible collocation of another antenna),
      3.   Any plan and/or willingness to modify said tower and antenna
structure so as to provide for the possibility of collocation,
      4.   Any plan to abandon a tower structure,
      5.   Such other nonproprietary information as may be required by the
village. (Ord. 06-54, 9-21-2006)
6-19-12: FEE:
The owner of any tower or antenna structure shall pay to the village an annual
lease administration fee at a rate established from time to time by the board
of trustees. Upon written notice from the village, the owner of any tower and/
or antenna structure in existence at the time of the effective date hereof,
which tower and/or antenna structure would otherwise be regulated by this
chapter, shall register with the village, and shall provide such nonproprietary
information as is deemed useful by the village for administration of this
chapter. This section is specifically deemed to have retroactive effect. (Ord.
06-54, 9-21-2006)
CHAPTER XX
KEEPING OF CHICKENS
SECTION:
6-20-1: General Provisions
6-20-2: Penalty
6-20-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Keeping of Chickens Allowed: Chickens may be raised, kept, harbored or
maintained at any detached, single-family residential property located in the
village, subject to the regulations set forth in this Article. The raising,
keeping, harboring or maintaining of any chickens shall be performed at all
times in such manner as to minimize visual, noise and odor impacts upon
neighboring properties or residences.
   B.   License Required: No person shall raise, keep, harbor, or maintain any
chickens in the village without having first obtained a license therefor.
      1.   The number of licenses that may be issued by the village shall be
set from time to time by the board of trustees.
      2.   The owner of or person desiring to raise, keep, harbor or maintain
chickens shall pay an annual license fee to the village, in such amount set
from time to time by the board of trustees.
      3.   Such person shall file annually an application and fee for such
license no later than December 1 for issuance for the period from January 1 to
December 31 of the following year. After the first year of licensure, licenses
shall be issued to a current licensee before being issued to any new licensee,
provided the current licensee is in good standing with the village and has not
received any written notices of violation of this Article.
   C.   Requirements:
      1.   The number of hens that may be kept by a license holder shall be set
from time to time by the board of trustees.
      2.   Once fully feathered, no chickens shall be raised, kept, harbored or
maintained inside any residence.
      3.   No person shall raise, keep, harbor or maintain any rooster in the
village.
      4.   No person shall breed any chickens in the village.
      5.   No person shall slaughter any chickens within the village.
      6.   No person shall allow any of the following in connection with the
raising, keeping, harboring or maintaining any chickens:
         a.   Creation of noxious or offensive odors, including but not limited
to odors from chickens, chicken manure, or other chicken-related substances
that are perceptible beyond the boundaries of the owner's property.
         b.   Emitting of loud noises for any extended and uninterrupted
period, including, but not limited to, noise from chickens loud enough to be
heard beyond the boundaries of the owner's property so as to disturb a person
of reasonable sensitivity.
         c.   Chickens running at large in the village or otherwise roaming
outside the enclosure prescribed in this Article.
      7.   All food products for any chickens must be kept and maintained in
rodent-proof containers.
      8.   Chickens shall be provided with access to feed and clean water at
all times.
      9.   All waste produced by chickens must be collected and stored in a
fully covered structure with a lid over the entire storage container and shall
be disposed of in a sanitary manner. In no case shall any such waste be
disposed of via the village's wastewater conveyance and treatment system or
stormwater sewer system.
      10.   No person shall raise, keep, harbor or maintain chickens infested
with insects or parasites. Any such chickens may be removed from the premises
by the village at the expense of the owner.
      11.   No person shall keep chickens on a vacant or uninhabited tract of
land, or on any village-owned property.
      12.   No person shall engage in either keeping of chickens or production
of fertilizer from chicken waste for any commercial purpose.
   D.   Coop Enclosure/Fenced Area: All chickens raised, kept, harbored or
maintained in the village must be kept in a coop from sundown to sunup each day
and overnight, provided, during daytime hours the chickens may be allowed to
roam within a fenced area on the property when the owner or other adult person
designated by the owner is present.
      1.   Coops and fenced areas for roaming shall be located in the rear yard
or the rear half of any side yard.
      2.   Coops and fenced areas for roaming must be set back a minimum of ten
(10') feet from any property line and a minimum of twenty-five (25') feet from
the nearest adjacent habitable building.
      3.   Coops must be sized properly for the number of chickens to be
contained therein, provided no coop shall be larger than fifty square feet (50
sq. ft.) in area nor more than ten feet (10') in height.
         a.   A minimum of four square feet (4 sq. ft.) of floor space must be
provided for each chicken if allowed access to a larger fenced area.
         b.   A minimum of ten square feet (10 sq. ft.) of floor space must be
provided for each chicken if not allowed access to a larger fenced area.
      4.   Coops must be designed, constructed and maintained so as to be
impermeable by predators, birds, and rodents, and so as to avoid infestation by
insects or parasites.
      5.   No coop shall be erected without a building permit issued by the
village.
      6.   Coops shall be kept in a clean, dry, neat and sanitary condition at
all times.
      7.   Any fenced area for roaming shall be attached to the coop, shall
consist of sturdy fencing material, shall be fully covered and shall be no more
than one-hundred square feet (100 sq. ft.) in area nor more than seven feet
(7') in height.
      8.   Fenced areas for roaming shall be effectively screened from all
neighboring properties by fencing or landscaping at least six feet (6') in
height.
   E.   Sales Prohibited.
      1.   No person engaged in the keeping of chickens under this Article
shall offer for sale or sell any chickens or eggs produced by chickens in the
village. (Ord. 22-12, 6-2-2022; amd. Ord. 23-19, 10-5-2023)
6-20-2: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who violates the provisions of this Article shall be fined
an amount not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) and nor more than seven
hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
   B.   Each day that an offense exists and/or continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
   C.   In addition to any other penalty, any license granted by the Village to
any person may be revoked upon violation of any of the provisions of this
Article. Such person shall be notified of such revocation in writing and may
appeal the revocation to the Board of Trustees by filing a written notice of
such appeal with the Village Clerk within ten (10) days after the date of such
notice. The Board of Trustees shall consider said appeal as soon thereafter as
practicable and shall notify the appellant of the result in writing. (Ord. 22-
12, 6-2-2022)
ARTICLE XXI
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING
SECTION:
6-21-1: General Provisions
6-21-2: Requirements
6-21-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: With the increase in prevalence of electric vehicles (EVs),
the village finds electric vehicle charging to be a public benefit to the
community and therefore herein establishes regulations governing the
installation and use of electric vehicle charging stations (EVCS).
   B.   Village Not Liable: The village shall not be liable or responsible for
the failure to operate, the inaccurate operation of, or for any injury or
damage caused by an electric vehicle charging station (EVCS).
   C.   Abbreviations:
      1.   EV - electric vehicle.
      2.   EVCS - electric vehicle charging station(s).
   D.   Primary Use: Retail EVCS shall be allowed in accordance with the
regulations for automobile service stations and automobile/truck stops.
   E.   Accessory Uses:
      1.   Private EVCS shall be allowed as an accessory use in any zoning
district; provided charging of fleet vehicles shall not be allowed in estate or
residential zoning districts unless such vehicle is also used as the personal
vehicle by the property owner or tenant.
      2.   Retail EVCS shall be allowed as an accessory use in any business or
industrial zoning district.
      3.   Where retail EVCS are capable of completely charging a passenger
vehicle faster than one (1) hour of time, or where retail EVCS stalls account
for fifty percent (50%) or more of the provided off-street parking, such EVCS
shall not be considered accessory use. (Ord. 23-09, 9-7-2023)
6-21-2: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: Installation of EVCS shall require a building permit
when required by Chapter 5 of this code and shall be subject to all other
applicable local, state, and Federal permitting and licensing requirements and
all other applicable laws, codes, ordinances, rules and regulations. Any manner
of approval for the installation of an EVCS by the village shall not constitute
endorsement of accuracy, effectiveness, or calibration of such EVCS.
   B.    Public Property:
      1.   Except for EVCS installed by the village, EVCS shall not obstruct
the public right-of-way.
      2.   Except for EVCS installed by the village, EVCS shall not be powered
by a public outlet or other public power source.
   C.   EVCS Stalls:
      1.   No minimum number of EVCS stalls is required.
      2.   Each EVCS must be accompanied by an appropriate stall in accordance
with the minimum parking geometrics standards in Section
6-11-2 of this code. EVCS equipment shall be allowed to encroach no more than
twenty-four inches by twenty-four inches (24" x 24") into the front end of such
stall, and only as allowed by referenced publications in accessible EVCS
stalls.
      3.   EVCS stalls may count toward the number of parking spaces required
by Section
6-11-2 of this code for any use; provided, such EVCS stalls may account for no
more than five percent (5%) of required parking spaces.
      4.   Owners of EVCS stalls may prohibited the parking of non-EVs in EVCS
stalls as provided by law.
      5.   Where an EVCS is provided, EVCS stalls shall follow current Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements. Illinois Accessibility Code
regulations, and other applicable accessibility regulations, laws, rules and
regulations. Accessible EVCS stalls shall provide an accessible route to the
entrance of the primary use and/or the public right-of-way.
      6.   A phone number or other contact information shall be provided on the
EVCS equipment for reporting purposes when the equipment is not functioning or
other equipment problems are encountered.
      7.   The village may require the owner of a retail EVCS to provide
information on the charging station’s geographic location, date of
installation, equipment type and model, and owner contact information to the
Village Manager or his/her designee for documentation and/or publication of
such data by the village, if it is in the village’s interest.
   D.   Safety: EVCS shall be designed and installed and comply with all
applicable laws, ordinances, codes, rules, and regulations, including
applicable provisions of the Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.)
and shall be installed so as to prevent slips, trips, falls, and other
accidents including, but not limited to, effective cord management.
   E.   Graphics:
      1.   Graphics located on properties with EVCS shall be in conformance
with Article XII of this Chapter.
      2.   Information signs shall be posted at EVCS stalls designating the
stall as an EVCS stall and warning of potential enforcement actions, such as
towing. (Ord. 23-09, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 7
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
General Provisions For Subdivisions   I
Procedure And Requirements   II
Required Land Improvements   III
Design Standards   IV
Administration And Enforcement   V
Dedication Of Public Use Areas, School And
Park Sites (Rep. by Ord. 92-15, 11-19-1992)   VI
Annexation   VII
ARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Purpose
7-1-2: Jurisdiction
7-1-3: General Regulations
7-1-4: Definitions
7-1-1: PURPOSE:
The subdivision regulations of this Chapter 7 are adopted for the following
purposes:
   A.   To promote the public health, safety, and general welfare; to conserve,
protect and enhance property and property values; to secure the most efficient
use of land; and to facilitate the adequate but economical provision of public
improvements.
   B.   To provide for orderly growth and development; to afford adequate
facilities for the safe and efficient means for traffic circulation of its
population; and to safeguard the public against flood damage.
   C.   To prescribe reasonable rules and regulations governing the subdivision
and platting of land; the preparation of plats; the location, width and course
of streets and highways; the installation of utilities, street pavements, and
other essential improvements; and the provision of necessary public grounds for
schools, parks, playgrounds, and other public open spaces.
   D.   To establish procedures for the submission, approval, and recording of
plats; and to provide the means for enforcement of this Chapter and penalties
for violations. (1985 Code)
7-1-2: JURISDICTION:
The regulations set forth in this Chapter 7 shall be applicable to all
subdivisions and resubdivisions of unimproved land and areas subject to
redevelopment within the corporate limits of the Village of Hampshire and all
contiguous unincorporated territory not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles
beyond the corporate limits of the Village and not included in any other
municipality. (1985 Code)
7-1-3: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Whenever any subdivision of land shall hereafter be laid out, the
subdivider thereof or his agent shall submit both a preliminary and a final
subdivision plat to the Planning and Zoning Commission, said plats and plans of
proposed improvements, and all procedures relating thereto, to be in full
compliance with these regulations.
   B.   Until plats and plans for the subdivision are certified and approved by
the Board of Trustees in writing:
      1.   No land shall be subdivided or filed for record, nor any street laid
out, nor any improvements made to the land;
      2.   No lot, tract or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be
offered for sale, nor shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be made or
given; and,
      3.   No improvements such as sidewalks, water supply, storm water
drainage, sewerage facilities, gas service, electric service or lighting, or
grading, paving or surfacing of streets, shall be made within any such
subdivision by any owner or owners or his or their agent, or by any public
service corporation at the request of such owner or owners or his or their
agent.
   C.   No plat will be approved for a subdivision of land which is subject to
periodic flooding or which contains such poor drainage facilities as would make
adequate drainage of the planned lots and streets unfeasible; however, if the
subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of the
Village Engineer, make the area safe for residential occupancy and provide
adequate lot and street drainage, the plat of subdivision may be approved
notwithstanding such periodic flooding or poor drainage.
   D.   In all subdivisions, due regard shall be given to the preservation of
historical sites and natural features such as large trees, watercourses and
scenic views.
   E.   All interpretations of these rules and regulations are reserved to the
administrative bodies referred to herein.
   F.   The Hampshire village board may vary and make exceptions as set forth
herein in instances where it finds sufficient evidence of hardship caused by
topographic conditions, or where any other reasonable deterrents prevail.
   G.   All subdivisions of land shall be and are subject to compliance with
the requirements of chapter 14, "Development Impact Fees", of this code.
   H.   Deposit For Reimbursement Of Fees And Costs1: Any person who shall file
an application for subdivision of any land in the village shall deposit with
the village finance director a sum in accordance with the amount set by the
board of trustees, which sum shall be utilized by the village for reimbursement
of fees and costs incurred by the village for review and evaluation of said
application, including, but not limited to, legal, engineering, planning, and
other consultant services.
      1.   Said funds shall be deposited and maintained in a separate developer
escrow account, separate and apart from the general funds of the village;
provided, however, said funds may be commingled with other developer deposits
in a single bank account with separate accounting.
      2.   The finance director shall upon payment by the village of any fees
or costs related to the review, evaluation or processing of the application,
promptly reimburse the village for said payment from the pertinent deposit, and
shall render an accounting regarding same to the applicant. The village's
payment of any such fees or costs shall be conclusive evidence that such
payment was due, is for services actually rendered, and is a reasonable amount
to be paid for such services.
      3.   Whenever said funds shall have been disbursed, so as to reduce the
funds on account to a minimum balance described in subsection H4 of this
section, or less, the finance director shall notify the applicant that the
account must be replenished to the initial required amount, and the applicant
shall, not more than fifteen (15) days later, make a deposit with the finance
director to so replenish the funds.
      4.   The amount of the initial deposit, and minimum balance at which it
shall be required to replenish such account, shall be set from time to time by
the board of trustees.
      5.   If the applicant shall fail to replenish the account upon such
written notice, the village may cease work on and processing of the subject
application until such time as such additional deposit has been received.
      6.   The village board may, in its sole discretion, considering the size
and complexity of the proposed development:
         a.   Require a larger initial deposit, and/or set a higher minimum
balance at which the account shall be replenished; and
         b.   Reduce the amount of the initial deposit, and/or reduce the
minimum balance at which the account shall be replenished.
      7.   Upon the conclusion of processing any application for land
development, by recording of a final plat of subdivision, written confirmation
of withdrawal of the application, or otherwise, and after payment of all
reimbursements due to the village, any balance remaining on account of the
applicant shall be returned to the applicant. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 01-22, 8-2-
2001; Ord. 04-23, 7-15-2004; Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021; Ord. 25-18, 5-1-2025)
7-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
ALLEY: A strip of land not less than twenty feet (20') in width and not more
than forty feet (40'), along the side or in the rear of properties, intended to
provide access to these properties.
BUILDING LINE: A line within a lot or other parcel of land, so designated on
the plat of the proposed subdivision, between which line and the adjacent
boundary of the street upon which the lots abut, the erection of an enclosed
structure or portion thereof is to be prohibited.
COLLECTOR STREET, SECONDARY STREET: A street which carries traffic from minor
streets to the primary street system, including the principal entrance streets
of residence development and streets for circulation within such a development.
CROSS WALKWAY: A strip of land dedicated to public use, which is reserved
across a block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
CUL-DE-SAC: A short street having an end open to traffic and being permanently
terminated at the other end by a vehicular turnaround.
DIRECTOR OF BUILDINGS: The officer charged by law with the administration and
enforcement of the building code, or the duly authorized representative of such
official.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation, or a certain person or persons for a specific
purpose or purposes.
HALF STREET: A street bordering one or more border lines of a tract or parcel
of land and which is but one-half (1/2) of the required right of way width.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for transfer
of ownership or building development.
MARGINAL ACCESS STREET: A minor street which is parallel and adjacent to
primary streets and highways, and which provides access to abutting properties
and protection to local traffic from fast, through moving traffic on the
primary streets.
MINOR STREET: A street intended primarily as access to abutting properties.
OPEN SPACE: Land within or related to a development that is comprised of a
parcel or parcels, or an area, of land or an area of water, which remains
unimproved and is set aside, dedicated, designed or reserved for public use or
enjoyment.
PLAT: A map, drawing, or chart on which the subdivider's plan of the
subdivision is presented and which he submits for approval and intends to
record in final form.
PRIMARY OR MAJOR STREET: A street of considerable continuity which serves or is
intended to serve as a major traffic artery connecting large areas.
STREET: An area which serves or is intended to serve as vehicular and
pedestrian access to abutting lands or to other streets, refers to the width of
the street right of way or easement, whether public or private, and shall not
be considered as the width of paving or other improvement on the street right
of way.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two (2) or
more lots, parcels or other divisions of land, for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or building development,
including all changes in street or lot lines; provided, however, that a
division of land for agricultural purposes, in parcels of more than five (5)
acres not including any new street or easement of access, shall be exempted.
(1985 Code; amd. Ord. 03-10, 6-19-2003)
ARTICLE II
PROCEDURE AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Stages
7-2-2: Concept Or Sketch Plan
7-2-3: Preliminary Plan
7-2-4: Final Plan
7-2-1: STAGES:
   A.   All subdivision plats shall be processed in three (3) stages leading to
approval for recording:
The concept or sketch plan;
The preliminary plan; and,
The final plat.
   B.   In the instances specified in this Article II, the second stage may be
waived.
(1985 Code; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
7-2-2: CONCEPT OR SKETCH PLAN:
   A.   1.   Submission: Any owner or representative of the owner of land shall
submit to the Planning and Zoning Commission a concept or sketch plan together
with such information as is required in subsection B of this Section, to
describe the existing conditions of the site and proposed development thereof.
      2.   Security For Fees: At the time of submitting a concept plan to the
Planning and Zoning Commission for review, the applicant shall deposit with the
Village Clerk a cash amount, certified check or money order, or surety bond
issued by a surety licensed to conduct business in the State, in an amount not
less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), payable to the Village of
Hampshire, as security for payment of engineering and/or attorney fees incurred
by and payable to the Village pursuant to Section
7-5-10 of this Chapter, and any costs connected therewith.
   B.   Data Required: The following information describing the existing
conditions and the proposed development shall be provided by the applicant at
the time of the consultation on the concept or sketch plan:
      1.   Sketch Plan: A sketch showing the proposed layout of streets, lots,
open spaces, nonresidential areas, and other important features in relation to
existing conditions in subsection B2 below.
         a.   Said sketch may be a freehold pencil sketch made directly on a
print of the topographic survey, but in any case topography should be indicated
with a contour interval not greater than four feet (4').
         b.   The number of residential lots, typical lot width and depth,
proposed utility and street improvements, and proposed subdivision name shall
also be indicated.
      2.   Existing Conditions: The presence of any of the following shall be
shown on the sketch plan or an accompanying sheet:
         a.   Physical characteristics of the site, such as swamps, woods,
drainage patterns, bodies of water, etc;
         b.   Existing buildings;
         c.   Availability of public utilities; and,
         d.   Applicable private restrictions, covenants and easements.
      3.   Location Map: A small scale map or sketch of the general vicinity
showing the relationship between the proposed subdivision and existing
community facilities which serve or influence it, such as the following:
         a.   Main traffic arteries;
         b.   Public transportation lines;
         c.   Parks, playgrounds, and schools;
         d.   Principal places of employment or shopping; and,
         e.   Other community facilities such as railroad stations, airports,
hospitals and churches.
   C.   Action:
      1.   Planning and Zoning Commission: Following review of the concept or
sketch plan, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall act thereon by approval
or disapproval and shall forward said plan to the Village Board with its
comments.
      2.   Village Board: The Village Board shall review the concept or sketch
plan and without formal action indicate to the Planning and Zoning Commission
and the owner its approval or disapproval of said plan, with or without
additional comment, within sixty (60) days after the Planning and Zoning
Commission forwards the concept or sketch plan. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 91-5, 4-
18-1991; Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
7-2-3: PRELIMINARY PLAN:
   A.   The procedure for conditional approval of a preliminary subdivision
plan by the Planning and Zoning Commission is as follows:
      1.   Preliminary Plat: Following the pre-application conference on the
concept, the subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat, together with
improvement plans and other supplementary material as specified in subsection B
below:
         a.   In the event a proposed subdivision is one acre or less in area,
the subdivider shall have the right to dispense with the preparation of the
preliminary plat and to proceed directly with submission of the final plat.
         b.   In such case, the fee set forth in subsection A3 below shall be
payable upon submission of the final plat.
      2.   Submission: An application in writing with three (3) copies of the
preliminary plan shall be filed with the Planning and Zoning Commission
secretary at least ten (10) days prior to the regular meeting at which the plan
is to be considered.
         a.   Upon submission, the Zoning Administrator shall determine whether
the preliminary plat is in proper form.
         b.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall not receive or consider
the application as filed until all documents are in accordance with the
requirements set forth herein.
         c.   The application is to be accompanied by a statement from the
Village Clerk that the filing fee has been paid as specified in subsection A3
below.
      3.   Fees: At the time of filing an application for conditional approval
of a preliminary subdivision plan, the applicant shall deposit with the Village
Clerk a cash amount, certified check or money order payable to the Village of
Hampshire, as a subdivision fee, at such rate or rates as shall be established
from time to time by the Village Board of Trustees.
      4.   General Factors For Consideration:
         a.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the following
factors in reviewing the preliminary plan:
            (1)   "Specifications for Preliminary Plan", as set forth in
subsection B of this Section;
            (2)   The Zoning Ordinance and the topography of the area;
            (3)   The general requirements of the neighborhood;
            (4)   The best use of the land to be subdivided; and,
            (5)   Specific requirements for parks, playgrounds, school sites,
major streets, the adequacy of street connections and the suitability of land
for development.
         b.   The preliminary plan will also be subject to the examination and
comments to be submitted in writing to the Planning and Zoning Commission
within thirty (30) days by:
         The Village Engineer;
         The chairman of the Planning and Zoning Committee;
         The Building and Zoning Officer; and,
         The Superintendent of Public Works.
      5.   Hearing: The Zoning Administrator shall notify in writing the
subdivider or his representative of the time and place at which he will be
heard on behalf of his application, and may notify by mail all immediately
adjacent property owners.
      6.   Planning and Zoning Commission Conditional Approval:
         a.   Following review of the preliminary plan and other required
material, and any negotiations with the subdivider on changes deemed advisable
and the kind and extent of improvements to be made by him, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall, within sixty (60) days, or within such time as may be
agreed by the applicant, act thereon as submitted or modified.
         b.   If approved, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall express its
approval as a conditional approval, and shall state the conditions of such
approval, if any, or
         c.   If disapproved, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall express
the disapproval and its reasons therefor.
      7.   Notification: The action of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
be noted on three (3) copies of the preliminary plan, referenced and attached
to any conditions determined. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider, one
copy forwarded with a report to the Village Board, and the other retained by
the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      8.   Meaning Of Conditional Approval: Conditional approval of the
preliminary plan shall not constitute approval of the final plan, but rather it
shall be deemed an expression of approval to the layout submitted on the
preliminary plan as a guide to the preparation of the final plan which will be
submitted for approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission and for recording
upon fulfillment of the requirements of these regulations and the conditions of
the conditional approval, if any.
      9.   Village Board Conditional Approval: Upon receipt of the preliminary
plan and reort from the Planning and Zoning Commission, the Village Board
shall, within thirty (30) days, or within such time as may be agreed by the
applicant,, upon motion and majority vote, conditionally approve or disapprove
the preliminary plan and notify the Planning and Zoning Commission and the
subdivider of its action.
      10.   Effective Period of Conditional Approval:
         a.   Conditional approval of the preliminary plan shall be effective
for a maximum period of twelve (12) months, except that submission within this
period of a final plat applying to a portion of the area covered by the
preliminary plan shall extend the effective period of conditional approval to a
maximum of twenty four (24) months from the date of submission of the
preliminary plan.
         b.   If a final plan has not been submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission within these time limits, the Planning and Zoning Commission may
require that the preliminary plan shall again be submitted to the Planning and
Zoning Commission for conditional approval.
   B.   Specifications For Preliminary Plan:
      1.   The preliminary plan shall contain the following:
         a.   Name of the proposed subdivision.
         b.   Evidence of ownership.
         c.   Name and address of owner, subdivider, and designer of
preliminary plan.
         d.   Legal description of location.
         e.   Scale of the plan, which shall be one inch to one hundred feet
(1" = 100') or larger, except that tracts of two hundred (200) acres or more
may be drawn at a scale of one inch to two hundred feet (1" = 200').
         f.   Date and true north arrow.
         g.   Boundary lines of the subdivision with approximate length and
bearing of lines.
         h.   The location, right of way, approximate gradients and names of
streets or other public ways, easements, railroad and utility rights of way,
both within the subdivision and those adjacent to or leading into the
subdivision.
         i.   Layout, numbers and dimensions of lots and blocks.
         j.   Minimum front setback lines, with dimensions shown.
         k.   Location of land intended to be dedicated to public use or
reserved in the deeds for the use of all property owners in the subdivision.
         l.   Utilities on or adjacent to the tract-location, including but not
limited to:
            (1)   Size and invert elevation of sanitary, storm and combined
sewers;
            (2)   Location and size of water mains;
            (3)   Location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone
poles, and street lights;
            (4)   If water mains and sewers are not on or adjacent to the
tract, direction, distance to and size of the nearest mains and sewers, showing
invert elevation of sewers; and,
            (5)   Proposed methods for providing water, storm water and
sanitary sewage facilities.
         m.   Contours at four foot (4') intervals except where topography of
the tract demands larger contour intervals.
         n.   Surface conditions of the tract, including but not limited to:
watercourses, marshes, rock outcrops, wooded areas, isolated preservable trees
one foot (1') or more in diameter, houses, barns, shacks, highest flood level
on watercourses, and other significant features.
         o.   Other conditions on adjacent land, including but not limited to:
            (1)   Approximate direction and gradient of ground slopes,
including any embankments or retaining walls;
            (2)   Character and location of buildings; and,
            (3)   Railroads, power lines, towers and other nearby
nonresidential land uses or adverse influences.
         p.   The names of owners of adjacent unplatted land.
         q.   The names of owners of immediately adjacent platted land,
together with the subdivision plat by name, recording date and document number,
approximate percent built, typical lot size, and dwelling type.
         r.   Proposed public improvements, including but not limited to:
            (1)   Location of highways or other major improvements planned by
public authorities for future construction on or near the tract.
            (2)   Easements of not less than ten feet (10') for any and all
public utilities where alleys are not provided; and,
            (3)   Proper continuity for the utilities from block to block.
      2.   Accompanying Documents:
         a.   Where the preliminary plan covers only part of the subdivider's
entire holding, a sketch of the prospective street system of the unsubmitted
part, showing also the connections with the street systems of the part included
on the preliminary plan, shall be submitted.
         b.   A draft of protective covenants, whereby the subdivider proposes
to regulate land use and otherwise protect the proposed development, shall be
submitted. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
7-2-4: FINAL PLAN:
   A.   Procedure for Approval of Final Plat:
      1.   Submission: After approval of the preliminary plan by the Planning
and Zoning Commission and fulfillment of the required conditions, the
subdivider shall apply for approval of a final plat.
         a.   The application for approval shall be submitted in writing to the
Planning and Zoning Commission secretary at least ten (10) days prior to the
meeting at which it is to be considered.
         b.   One copy of the final plat of the subdivision or portion thereof,
drawn in ink on tracing cloth, shall be submitted.
      2.   Planning and Zoning Commission Action: Within sixty (60) days after
submission, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall approve or disapprove the
final plat.
         a.   If the Planning and Zoning Commission approves, such approval
shall be entered upon the tracing by the chairman and secretary of the Planning
and Zoning Commission, and the tracing shall then be transmitted to the Village
Board by the Planning and Zoning Commission with recommendation for approval.
         b.   If the Planning and Zoning Commission disapproves, it shall set
forth the reasons in its own records and provide the applicant with a copy.
      3.   Village Board Action: Within sixty (60) days after receiving the
final plat from the Planning and Zoning Commission, or within such time as may
be agreed by the applicant, the Village Board shall take action.
         a.   If the Board approves, such approval shall be entered upon the
tracing by the signatures of the President and Village Clerk, and shall be by
resolution setting forth all conditions upon which approval is predicted.
         b.   If the Board disapproves, it shall set forth its reasons in its
own records and provide the applicant and Planning and Zoning Commission with a
copy.
      4.   Recording: Upon approval by the Board of Trustees, the developer
shall record the plat with the Recorder of Kane County within six (6) months.
         a.   No building permit shall be issued, nor any construction started
until evidence of recording has been received by the Director of Building.
         b.   If not recorded within six (6) months, the approval shall be null
and void.
      5.   Approval Not Acceptance Of Improvements: Approval of the final plat
shall not be deemed to constitute or effect any acceptance by the Village of
any improvement shown on the plan.
   B.   Specifications For Final Plat:
      1.   For large subdivisions, the final plat may be submitted for approval
progressively in contiguous sections satisfactory to the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
      2.   A final plat shall contain the following:
         a.   Name of subdivision.
         b.   Location by township, section, town and range, or by other legal
description.
         c.   Evidence of ownership.
         d.   Names and addresses of owners, subdivider and designer of final
plan.
         e.   Scale of one inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100').
         f.   Boundary of plat, based on an accurate traverse with angular and
lineal dimensions.
         g.   Date and north point.
         h.   Exact location, width and name of all streets within and
adjoining the plat and the exact location and widths of all cross-walkways.
Proposed street names shall be checked with the proper Village and postal
authorities.
         i.   True angles and distance to the nearest established street lines
or official monuments (not less than 3) which shall be accurately described in
the plat.
         j.   Municipal, township, county or section lines accurately tied to
the lines of the subdivision by distance angles.
         k.   Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings,
and lengths of all arcs.
         l.   All easements for right of way provided for public services and
utilities.
         m.   All lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths.
         n.   Accurate location of at least two (2) monuments, which shall be
concrete six inches by six inches by thirty inches (6" x 6" x 30") with metal
pipe or rod cast in center. Permanent stone or concrete monuments shall be set
at two (2) corners or angles on the outside boundary. Pipes or other physical
markers shall be placed at each intersection of street center lines. All U.S.,
State, County or other official bench marks, monuments, or triangulation
stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in precise position.
         o.   Building setback lines accurately shown by dimensions.
         p.   Certification by a registered surveyor to the effect that the
plat represents a survey made by him and that monuments and markers shown
thereon exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic details are
correct.
         q.   Notarized certification, by owner or owners, or by any mortgage
holder on record, of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and
other public areas.
         r.   Certifications showing that all taxes and special assessments due
on the property to be subdivided have been paid in full.
         s.   Proper form for the approval of the Board of Trustees with space
for signatures.
         t.   Approval by signature of the Village President and Board of
Trustees of the Village of Hampshire.
   C.   Accompanying Documents: The final plat to be filed of record shall be
accompanied by a statement signed by the owner and subdivider, setting forth
the following:
      1.   Plans and specifications for such improvements previously approved
by the Village Engineer clearly describing the same.
      2.   Agreement executed by the owner and the subdivider wherein they
agree to make, install and turn over to the Village of Hampshire, ownership of
the improvements provided for in Article III of this Chapter, in accordance
with the plans and specifications accompanying the final plat.
   D.   Performance Guarantee:
      1.   The subdivider shall furnish cash or a letter of credit, unless
otherwise agreed by the Village Board, in the amount of one hundred twenty five
percent (125%) of the estimate of the Village Engineer of the cost of the
installation of the improvements required in said subdivision, to be approved
by the Board of Trustees, conditioned upon the completed installation of the
required improvements within two (2) years of the approval of the final plat.
         a.   Cash shall be deposited in a certificate of deposit or escrow
account at a Federally insured bank or savings and loan association with
resources of at least ten million dollars ($10,000,000.00), under the
provisions of an escrow agreement approved in form by Village counsel, and
subject to draw by the Village alone; and,
         b.   Any letter of credit shall be irrevocable, issued in favor of the
Village, issued by a Federally insured bank or savings and loan association
with resources of at least ten million dollars ($10,000,000.00), in such form
as is approved by Village counsel, and subject to draw by the Village alone.
      2.   The proceeds of said cash or letter of credit shall be used to
install any and all subdivision improvements not installed by the subdivider in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications or with good engineering
practices.
      3.   Upon completion of all required improvements and acceptance thereof
by the Village, any cash or letter of credit shall be reduced to an amount
equal to ten percent (10%) of the estimated construction costs, which sum shall
be retained for a period of one year following acceptance and may be used by
the Village to make any necessary repairs arising out of the defects in work or
materials.
   E.   Fees: Prior to approval of the final plat of subdivision by the Village
Board, any and all engineer's and/or attorney's fees charged to the applicant
by the Village pursuant to this Code shall be paid in full. (Ord. 1985 Code;
amd. Ord. 91-5, 4-18-1991; Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
ARTICLE III
REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Certificate Of Engineer
7-3-2: Sanitary Sewers
7-3-3: Water System
7-3-4: Street Improvements
7-3-5: Public Utilities
7-3-6: Sidewalks
7-3-7: Landscaping
7-3-8: Street Lighting
7-3-9: Storm Water Control
7-3-10: Bike Paths
7-3-1: CERTIFICATE OF ENGINEER:
No subdivision of land shall be approved without receiving a statement signed
by the village engineer certifying that the improvements described in the
subdivider's plans and specifications, together with agreements, meet the
minimum requirements of all ordinances of the village and that they comply with
the requirements set forth in this article. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
7-3-2: SANITARY SEWERS:
   A.   The sanitary sewer system shall be installed in accordance with the
specifications of the village engineer.
   B.   Sanitary sewers shall be connected to the sanitary disposal system of
the village if reasonably accessible, otherwise to a specially constructed
sanitary sewage disposal plant in accordance with plans acceptable to the
village.
House stubs for sanitary sewer connections shall be installed for each lot and
shall be extended from the main to within one foot (1') of the street right of
way.
   C.   A subdivision plat shall in no case be approved which shall be
dependent upon individual septic systems; except, however, a subdivision plat
may be approved by the village board when it meets all of the following
criteria:
      1.   The subdivided property is classified in any of the estate
residential zoning districts.
      2.   No existing wastewater transmission main is within two thousand feet
(2,000') of any boundary of the property included within the proposed
subdivision.
      3.   The village board in its sole discretion finds, based on evidence
submitted by the subdivider, that it is not economically feasible to extend the
sewer to the subject property.
      4.   The suitability of the subject property for use with septic systems
is evaluated and approved in accordance with all applicable procedures by the
Kane County health department.
      5.   Any other conditions recommended to the village board by the village
engineer. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
7-3-3: WATER SYSTEM:
The water supply system shall be installed in accordance with the
specifications of the village engineer.
   A.   House service connections shall be installed for each lot and shall be
extended from the main to within one foot (1') of the right of way line of the
property to be served.
   B.   A subdivision plat shall in no case be approved which shall be
dependent upon individual private wells; except, however, a subdivision plat
may be approved by the village board when it meets all of the following
criteria:
      1.   The subdivided property is classified in any of the estate
residential zoning districts.
      2.   No existing water main is within two thousand feet (2,000') of any
boundary of the property included within the proposed subdivision.
      3.   The village board in its sole discretion finds, based on evidence
submitted by the subdivider, that it is not economically feasible to extend the
water main to the subject property.
      4.   The suitability of the subject property for use with private wells
is evaluated and approved in accordance with all applicable procedures by the
Kane County health department.
      5.   Any other conditions recommended to the village board by the village
engineer. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
7-3-4: STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
The roadway system shall be installed in accordance with the specifications of
the village engineer.
All streets within the corporate limits of the village of Hampshire shall be
constructed of bituminous concrete pavement and shall be bounded by integral
concrete curbs and gutters, type B.-6.12.
Stormwater inlets shall be provided within the roadway improvements at points
specified by the village engineer, and shall have a minimum spacing of four
hundred feet (400'). (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
Traffic control signs shall be installed at such location or locations as
directed by the village engineer. (Ord. 02-02, 2-21-2002)
7-3-5: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   All utility lines for telephone, cable TV and electric services shall
be placed underground entirely throughout a subdivided area, said conduits or
cable shall be placed within easements or dedicated public ways, in a manner
which will not conflict with other underground services and all transformer
boxes shall be located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public.
(Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
7-3-6: SIDEWALKS:
All sidewalks shall be installed in accordance with the specifications of the
village engineer.
Concrete sidewalks shall be installed within the right of way of each street as
directed by the village engineer and in accordance with the requirements of
section
7-4-6 of this chapter.
All sidewalks shall be continuous along vacant lots before streets are
accepted. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
7-3-7: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   All parkways within the dedicated street area or other public use areas
shall be graded in an approved manner. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
   B.   The requirements of chapter 5, "Building Regulations", article XVI,
"Trees And General Landscaping Requirements", of this code shall apply to all
subdivisions in the village. (Ord. 02-54, 12-19-2002)
7-3-8: STREET LIGHTING:
   A.   Street lighting shall be installed in accordance with the
specifications of the village engineer. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
7-3-9: STORMWATER CONTROL:
   A.   Stormwater control shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements of chapter 11 of this code.
   B.   The stormwater control system shall be installed in accordance with the
specifications of the village engineer.
   C.   When required by the village engineer, storm sewers shall be
constructed throughout an entire subdivision, subject to the following:
      1.   A storm sewer system shall be separate and independent of the
sanitary sewer system.
      2.   The storm sewer system shall provide an adequate outlet. (Ord. 01-
25, 8-16-2001)
7-3-10: BIKE PATHS:
   A.   All bike paths shall be installed in accordance with the specifications
of the village engineer.
   B.   Bike paths shall be installed at locations directed by the village
board and village engineer. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
ARTICLE IV
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Streets And Other Rights Of Way
7-4-2: Easements
7-4-3: Block Standards
7-4-4: Lot Standards
7-4-5: Parks, Schools And Public Areas
7-4-6: Sidewalks
7-4-7: Landscaping
7-4-8: Street Lighting
7-4-9: Street Signs
7-4-10: Sanitary Sewer System
7-4-11: Water System
7-4-12: Storm Water Collection System
7-4-13: Bike Paths
7-4-1: STREETS AND OTHER RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
streets, alleys or other rights of way to be dedicated for public use shall
conform to the general development plan of the village of Hampshire as approved
and adopted by the board of trustees and other responsible governmental bodies.
      1.   All rights of way shall be considered in their relation to existing
and planned streets, to topographical conditions and to public convenience and
safety.
      2.   All rights of way shall be considered in their appropriate relation
to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets.
   B.   All required streets shall conform to the requirements set forth by the
village engineer and the table of minimum standards for street design included
herein. The minimum standards may be subject to change at the discretion of the
engineer. Conditions such as design speeds and the physical features of the
site may alter the minimum standards.
      1.   All streets shall be bound by concrete curb and gutters. Concrete
curb and gutter shall be type B-6.12.
      2.   Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic
will be discouraged.
      3.   Street jogs with center line offsets of less than one hundred twenty
five feet (125') shall not be allowed. Center line offsets of less than two
hundred feet (200') are discouraged.
      4.   Clear visibility, measured along the center line of the street,
shall be provided for at least three hundred feet (300') on all primary
streets, two hundred feet (200') on secondary streets and at least one hundred
feet (100') on all other streets.
      5.   It must be evidenced that all street intersections and confluences
encourage safe traffic flow.
      6.   Alleys are not permitted, except where deemed necessary, and at the
discretion of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the board of trustees.
      7.   Cul-de-sacs are discouraged, but if approved shall meet the
following minimum requirements:
         a.   The maximum length cul-de-sac shall be five hundred feet (500')
measured along the center line from the intersection at origin through center
of circle to end of right of way.
         b.   The minimum length, measured as above, shall be two hundred
seventy five feet (275').
         c.   Each cul-de-sac shall have a terminus of nearly circular shape
with a minimum outside diameter of one hundred fifty feet (150') and a minimum
paved width of one hundred feet (100') face to face of curb.
      8.   Half streets shall be prohibited, except as follows:
         a.   Where essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision
in conformity with the other requirements of these regulations.
         b.   Where the Planning and Zoning Commission and the board of
trustees find it will be practicable to require the dedication of the other
half when the adjoining property is subdivided.
         c.   Wherever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided,
the other half of the street shall be planned within such tract.
MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STREET DESIGN
                                                                Minimum    Minimum  Minimum
Type   Minimum Minimum Minimum    Minimum   Minimum   Minimum   Horizontal Length   Tangent  Maximum   Minimum    Minimum  Minimum
Of     ROW     Street  Structural Aggregate Binder    Surface   Curve      Vertical Between  Gradient  Gradient   Sight    Curb
Street Width   Width   Number7    Thickness Thickness Thickness Radius     Curve    Reverse  (Percent) (Percent)9 Distance Radius
       (Feet)  (Feet)5            (Inches)  (Inches)  (Inches)  (Feet)     (Feet)8  Curves                        (Feet)   (Feet)6
                                                                                    (Feet)10
                                                                      Minimum    Minimum  Minimum
             Minimum Minimum Minimum    Minimum   Minimum   Minimum   Horizontal Length   Tangent  Maximum   Minimum    Minimum  Minimum
Type Of      ROW     Street  Structural Aggregate Binder    Surface   Curve      Vertical Between  Gradient  Gradient   Sight    Curb
Street       Width   Width   Number7    Thickness Thickness Thickness Radius     Curve    Reverse  (Percent) (Percent)9 Distance Radius
             (Feet)  (Feet)5            (Inches)  (Inches)  (Inches)  (Feet)     (Feet)8  Curves                        (Feet)   (Feet)6
                                                                                          (Feet)10
Residential:
Local        66      28      3.00       12        2.5       1.5       20011      50       25       6         0.5        250      25
minor3,12
Local        66      32      3.00       12        2.5       1.5       300        100      75       5         0.5        250      30
secondary2
Collector4   80      32      3.60       12        4.5       1.5       400        200      100      4         0.5        250      30
Industrial:
Local4       66      32      4.00       12        5.5       1.5       300        100      50       3         0.5        300      30
Collector4   80      39      4.90       12        8.0       1.5       500        200      200      3         0.5        400      40
Commercial:
Local4       66      32      4.00       12        5.5       1.5       300        100      100      3         0.5        300      30
Collector4   80      39      4.50       12        7.0       1.5       400        200      100      3         0.5        400      40
  
Notes:
Pavement designs shown above are the minimum requirements. Actual pavement
design will be based on the 10 year projected traffic and a 20 year design life
utilizing IDOT's pavement design procedures.
1.   Where mixed uses abut the same street, the stricter standards shall be the
standard at which said street shall be constructed.
2.   Parking may be prohibited on some curvilinear streets and other streets.
3.   No parking one side.
4.   No parking either side permitted.
5.   All street widths are measured from back to back of curb.
6.   Minimum curb radius at street intersections shall be dependent on current
truck turning standards.
7.   Minimum structural number is based upon the subgrade material having a
minimum Illinois bearing ratio (IBR) of 3.0. If the minimum IBR cannot be
obtained, changes to the subgrade and/or structural number requirements may be
necessary.
8.   Vertical sag and summit curves shall not be applied to curb grades when
the algebraic difference in grade is less than or greater than 2.0.
9.   If a curb machine or other computer/sensor operated grade control
equipment is used.
10.   Minimum tangent length between reverse curves shall only apply when
centerline radius is less than (minimum radius + 400 feet).
11.   May be reduced to 85 feet if appropriate, based on housing density,
traffic, grade and sight distance, but only if recommended by the village
engineer and approved by the village board.
12.   Cul-de-sacs are considered minor streets.
(Ord. 04-42, 11-4-2004; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
7-4-2: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Continuity: Easements shall be designed and platted to provide
continuity throughout the entire subdivision.
   B.   Public Utility Easement; Electric And Communications:
      1.   Public utility distribution or transmission installations serving
the subdivision with electric and communication services shall be located in
public utility easements (abbreviation PUE). Public utility easements shall be
designated as such on the final plat of subdivision. Such easements shall be
located along the rear, side or front lot lines and shall not be less than
twelve feet (12') in width, of which six feet (6') may be located on each of
two (2) adjacent lots.
      2.   Public utility easements shall not be used for drainage or village
utility purposes, but they may be graded as shallow drainage swales to carry
localized surface runoff that does not interfere with the public utility uses
thereof.
      3.   All public utilities shall be installed underground. When it is
necessary to locate public utilities within village rights of way, the location
shall be subject to village approval. The public utilities within such rights
of way, when located beneath paved surfaces (except sidewalks and driveway
approaches) shall be installed in conduit meeting the specification of the
respective utility company(ies).
      4.   When the village board determines that it is in the public interest
to relocate existing overhead utilities underground, easements shall be granted
that meet the location and width requirements of any affected utility company.
   C.   Public Utility Easements; Natural Gas:
      1.   Public utility distribution or transmission installations serving
the subdivision with natural gas service shall be located within dedicated
street and alley rights of way.
      2.   Location of such public utility installations shall not conflict
with village utilities and shall be subject to village approval.
      3.   These public utilities within such rights of way, when located
beneath paved surfaces (except sidewalks and driveway approaches) shall be
installed in conduit meeting the specification of each respective utility
company.
   D.   Village Utility Easements:
      1.   Whenever it is necessary to install water mains, sanitary sewers,
storm sewers or other underground utilities to be maintained by the village, in
areas other than dedicated rights of way, village utility easements
(abbreviation VUE) shall be provided and so designated on the final plat of
subdivision. Village utility easements shall also be provided when village
access is required for detention basin and/or other village utility
maintenance.
      2.   Village utility easements shall not be less than twenty feet (20')
in width (unless adjacent to village ROW) of which ten feet (10') may be
located on each of two (2) adjacent lots.
      3.   Whenever public utilities and village utilities follow a common
route they may be installed in a common easement termed a "utility easement"
(abbreviation UE), if acceptable to the affected public utility and to the
village.
   E.   Drainage Easements:
      1.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a drainage easement or right of way
conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse, plus such
additional width as will be necessary in the sole discretion of the village to
adequately maintain or improve the watercourse.
      2.   Said easements shall not be used for any other purposes except that
utilities may cross this easement, provided that the crossing does not alter
the intended use of the easement. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
7-4-3: BLOCK STANDARDS:
   A.   The maximum length of a block shall be eight hundred feet (800'),
subject to the following:
      1.   Crosswalk easements not less than ten feet (10') in width shall be
provided where deemed necessary by the Planning and Zoning Commission at the
approximate centers of the blocks.
      2.   Additional crosswalk ways in any instance to provide safe and
convenient access to schools, parks, or other similar destinations shall be
provided as specified by the Planning and Zoning Commission and the board of
trustees.
   B.   All blocks must fit easily into the overall plan of the subdivision,
and their design must evidence consideration of lot planning, traffic flow and
public areas; no specific shape of a block is otherwise required. (Ord. 01-25,
8-16-2001; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
7-4-4: LOT STANDARDS:
   A.   The minimum lot dimensions for residential development shall be as
follows:
      1.   Not less than eighty feet (80') wide at the established building
setback line. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
      2.   Not less than one hundred twenty feet (120') in average length.
(Ord. 04-42, 11-4-2004)
      3.   Lots on the curved portion of cul-de-sac shall average forty five
feet (45') wide at the front line with no front lot line less than forty feet
(40') in width.
      4.   The minimum size of any lot shall be as described in chapter 6,
"Zoning", of this code.
   B.   All lots shall abut on publicly dedicated streets.
   C.   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles or radial to
the street line.
   D.   Double frontage lots are prohibited except as follows:
      1.   Where lots back upon a primary street (major thoroughfare) and
vehicular access between the lots and the thoroughfare is prohibited;
      2.   Where topography of the land might render subdividing otherwise
unreasonable; and
      3.   Such lots shall have an additional depth of at least ten feet (10')
in order to allow for a protective screen planting.
   E.   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream shall have
additional minimum width or depth as required to provide an adequate building
site and afford the minimum usable area required in the zoning ordinance for
front, rear, and side yards. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
   F.   Corner lots for residential use shall have not less than five feet (5')
of extra width to permit full building setbacks on both streets. (Ord. 04-42,
11-4-2004)
7-4-5: PARKS, SCHOOLS AND PUBLIC AREAS:
   A.   Where a proposed park, playground, school or other public use area,
shown in the general development plan, existing or planned for the village of
Hampshire and adjacent unincorporated areas, is located in whole or in part in
a subdivision, the Planning and Zoning Commission or the board of trustees may
require the dedication or reservation of areas for playgrounds and schools or
other public uses within the subdivision, in those cases in which the Planning
and Zoning Commission or the board of trustees deems such requirements to be
reasonable, on the following conditions:
      1.   In no case shall the total amount of required public area exceed ten
percent (10%) of the total gross acreage owned and controlled by one developer;
and
      2.   The acquisition of the additional area needed for parks,
playgrounds, schools or other public uses, other than streets and alleys, shall
be secured by the proper governing body, or arrangements made for securing the
area, from the owner.
   B.   In one subdivision of any land within the village, or within one and
one-half (1-1/2) miles of the corporate limits, due regard shall be shown for
all natural features such as tree growth, watercourses, historic spots, or
similar conditions, which, if presented, will add attractiveness and value to
the proposed development.
   C.   Where a residential subdivision adjoins a railroad right of way, an
industrial area, or a business area of similar land uses which might have a
deleterious effect on the residential use of the property, a buffer planting
strip ten feet (10') or more shall be suitably planted to form an effective
screen. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
7-4-6: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Sidewalks shall be installed on all streets and on both sides;
provided, the village board may allow for substitution of a bicycle pathway on
one side of the street, in lieu of a sidewalk.
   B.   Unless otherwise specified by the village engineer as to any particular
sidewalk, all sidewalks in the village shall be:
      1.   Constructed of Portland cement concrete.
      2.   Five feet (5') in width.
      3.   Constructed level transversely and sloped longitudinally in
conformance with finished grades.
      4.   A minimum of four inches (4") thick; or, not less than six inches
(6") thick where crossed by a driveway;
      5.   Installed on a minimum of four inches (4") of compacted coarse
aggregate (CA-6) on prepared subgrade.
      6.   Constructed with a slope of one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot and
drain towards the roadway.
      7.   Located within the dedicated right-of-way and installed one foot
(1') from the property line of abutting lots, and along such line as extended
at intersections.
   C.   Sidewalk areas shall be prepared by the removal of all turf and topsoil
and excavation to a depth of six inches (6") below the required sidewalk
surface grade.
   D.   Side forms shall be of lumber of not less than two inches (2") nominal
thickness or of steel of equal rigidity, shall have a depth at least equal to
the thickness of the new concrete walk, shall be clean and oiled before
concrete is placed against them, shall be securely staked, braced and held
firmly to the required line and grade, and shall be removed after the concrete
sidewalk has cured.
   E.   Concrete shall be placed on a moist subbase to the required minimum
thickness and consolidated and spaded sufficiently to bring the mortar to the
surface, and shall be struck off and finished with a wood float, steel trowel
and brush.
   F.   The surface shall be divided by contraction joints tooled into slab
sections of not more than six feet (6') nor less than four feet (4') with
contraction joints at least one inch (1") in depth and one-eighth inch (1/s")
in width.
   G.   Bituminous type expansion joint filler, one-half inch (1/2") thick and
with height equal to the sidewalk thickness, shall be provided at all lot
lines, cold joints and/or minimum one hundred foot (100') intervals.
   H.   Concrete walks shall be cured for seventy-two (72) hours, during which
time whatever protection is necessary for damage from rain, pedestrians or
motor vehicles shall be provided. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001; amd. Ord. 04-42, 11-
4-2004; Ord. 22-26, 10-6-2022)
7-4-7: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   All unpaved areas within street rights of way shall be sodded with a
quality sod as approved by the village engineer. Before release of the
subdivider's performance guarantee, all unpaved areas between the edge of the
roadway and the right of way line must have an adequate mat of grass. (Ord. 01-
25, 8-16-2001)
   B.   Landscaping shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
requirements of chapter 5, "Building Regulations", article XVI, "Trees And
General Landscaping Requirements", of this code.
   C.   Trees shall be preserved, and may be removed, in accordance with the
requirements of chapter 5, "Building Regulations", article XVI, "Trees And
General Landscaping Requirements", of this code. (Ord. 02-54, 12-19-2002)
7-4-8: STREET LIGHTING:
Street lighting shall be installed as specified by the village engineer. (Ord.
01-25, 8-16-2001)
7-4-9: STREET SIGNS:
Street signs shall be installed as specified by the village engineer. (Ord. 01-
25, 8-16-2001)
7-4-10: SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM:
Sanitary sewer system improvements shall be installed as specified by the
village engineer. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
7-4-11: WATER SYSTEM:
Water system improvements shall be installed as specified by the village
engineer. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
7-4-12: STORMWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM:
Stormwater collection system improvements shall be installed as specified by
the village engineer.
   A.   An adequate stormwater drainage system shall be constructed, consisting
of pipes, swales, manholes, catch basins, inlets, stormwater detention
facilities and other necessary facilities that will safely serve the
development in accordance with chapter 11 of this code.
   B.   The drainage system shall include underground piping for sump pump
connections. The piping (4 inch minimum) shall extend from either the front or
rear of each building lot to the storm sewer system and shall include manholes
and/or cleanouts for maintenance purposes.
   C.   The storm sewer system shall be designed in accordance with the
rational method using a five (5) year design storm frequency.
   D.   Stormwater detention shall be provided in accordance with chapter 11 of
this code. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
7-4-13: BIKE PATHS:
Bike path improvements shall comply with the specifications on file with the
village engineer. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
ARTICLE V
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
7-5-1: Acceptance Of Streets And Other Improvements
7-5-2: Inspections
7-5-3: Building Permit
7-5-4: Occupancy Permit
7-5-5: Enforcement
7-5-6: Record Of Plats
7-5-7: Variations
7-5-8: Violation, Penalty
7-5-9: Easement Provisions
7-5-10: Forms For Certifications
7-5-11: Reimbursement Of Certain Fees
7-5-1: ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   If any plat of subdivision contains public streets or thoroughfares
which are therein dedicated as such, whether located within the corporate
limits of the village of Hampshire or outside thereof, or contains existing
streets outside of said corporate limits, the approval of the plat by the board
of trustees, or the subsequent annexation of the property by the village, shall
not constitute an acceptance by the village of such streets or thoroughfares,
nor of the improvements constructed or installed thereon or therein,
irrespective of any act or acts by an officer, agent, or employee of the
village with respect to such streets or improvements.
   B.   The acceptance of such streets or thoroughfares shall be made only by
the adoption of a resolution by the board of trustees after there has been
filed with the village clerk, a certificate by the village engineer certifying
that all improvements required to be constructed or installed in or upon such
streets or thoroughfares, in connection with the approval of the plat of
subdividers by the board of trustees, have been fully completed and the
construction or installation thereof has been approved by him within the time
limit set forth. (1985 Code)
   C.   Final approval and acceptance of streets and other improvements by the
village board shall be considered only after one year following completion.
(Ord. 04-42, 11-4-2004)
   D.   No permanent connection shall be made or maintained with the sanitary
or storm sewer or water supply systems of the village to serve property within
the subdivision until:
      1.   The certificate by the engineer of the village of Hampshire as
provided in this article has been filed; and
      2.   Any money owing to the village for permit fees for the connections
with said systems or any of them has been paid. (1985 Code)
7-5-2: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   All public improvements proposed to be made under the provisions of
this chapter shall be inspected during the course of construction by the
village engineer or a duly designated deputy.
   B.   All fees and costs connected with such inspection and in reviewing the
plans and specifications for such improvements shall be paid by the subdivider.
(1985 Code)
7-5-3: BUILDING PERMIT:
No building permit shall be issued by any governing official for the
construction of any building, structure or improvement to the land or any lot
within a "subdivision" as defined herein, which has been approved for platting
or replatting, until all requirements of this chapter have been fully complied
with. (1985 Code)
7-5-4: OCCUPANCY PERMIT:
No occupancy permit shall be granted by any governing official for the use of
any structure within any subdivision approved for platting or replatting until
required utility facilities have been installed and made ready to service the
property, and roadways providing access to the subject lot or lots have been
constructed or are in the course of construction. (1985 Code)
7-5-5: ENFORCEMENT:
No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to be recorded in the County
Recorder's office or have any validity until it shall have been approved in the
manner prescribed by this Chapter. (1985 Code)
7-5-6: RECORD OF PLATS:
All such plats for subdivision, after the same have been submitted and
approved, as provided in this Chapter, shall be copied upon a book of plats of
said Village of Hampshire and shall be filed and kept by said Village of
Hampshire among the records of the Village of Hampshire. (1985 Code)
7-5-7: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Hardships:
      1.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may, after written application by
the subdivider, recommend in writing to the Village Board variations to the
regulations set forth in this Chapter 7, subject to such conditions as are
specified by the Commission, so that substantial justice may be done and the
public interest secured, provided that such variations or exceptions shall not
have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of this Chapter or the
Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall not recommend variations or
exceptions to the regulations of this Chapter unless they shall make findings
based upon the evidence presented to them in each specific case, that:
         a.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topography conditions of the specific property involved, a particular and
extraordinary hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere
inconvenience, if the strict letter of the regulations was carried out;
         b.   The conditions upon which the request for a variation is based
are unique to the property for which the variation is sought and are not
applicable, generally, to other property, and have not been created by any
person having an interest in the property;
         c.   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a
desire to make more money out of the property; and,
         d.   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the
public safety, health, or welfare, or injurious to other property or
improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located.
      3.   The Village Board may approve variations from these subdivision
requirements in specific cases which in its discretion do not affect the
Comprehensive Plan or the spirit of this Chapter.
   B.   Large Scale Developments: The standards and requirements of this
Chapter may be modified in the case of large scale developments when the
Planning and Zoning Commission finds that a plan and program for a new village,
complete community, shopping center, industrial park, or neighborhood unit
provides adequate public open spaces and improvements for the circulation,
recreation, light, air, and service needs of the tract when fully developed,
and which also provides such covenants or other legal provisions as will assure
conformity and achievement of the plan. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
7-5-8: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who constructs any public improvement or portion thereof in
violation of the provisions of this Chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined
not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) for each offense and shall pay any court costs and reasonable
attorneys' fees incurred by the Village in enforcing this Chapter; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Whoever shall sell, or offer for sale, lease or offer for lease, while
this Chapter is in effect, any lot or lots or block or blocks within the
incorporated limits of the Village of Hampshire, or any additions thereto, or
any resubdivision of any lot or block therein, or within territory not more
than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the incorporated boundary of the
Village of Hampshire, before all of the requirements of this Chapter have been
complied with, shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each lot, block or part thereof
so disposed of, offered for sale, or leased; and shall pay any court costs and
reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by the Village in enforcing this Chapter.
(1985 Code)
7-5-9: EASEMENT PROVISIONS:
The following easement provisions, when applicable, shall be included on the
final plat of subdivision: (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
   A.   General Provisions Common To All Easements: No fence, shed or any
structure shall be erected within an easement that will obstruct or prohibit
the overland flow of stormwater, or obstruct, impede, or preclude ready access
to any utility facility or appurtenance, such as an equipment box, a catch
basin, or any other such facility or appurtenance. (Ord. 08-33, 9-4-2008)
The village of Hampshire and its representatives shall, at their sole
discretion, require any fence, structure or other obstruction that is erected
within a public utility easement, village utility easement, utility easement,
drainage easement or easement for stormwater detention basin, be removed at no
cost to the village. The cost of removal and replacement of any obstruction
shall be the sole responsibility of the owner.
   B.   Public Utility Easements; Electric And Communications: ComEd,
Ameritech, Mediacom cable services, and other utility companies providing
electric and communications services, their respective successors and assigns,
jointly or severally are hereby given exclusive easement rights to all platted
easements designated "public utility easement" or "PUE" and joint easement
rights with the village of Hampshire to all platted easements designated
"utility easement" or "UE" and easement rights in all platted streets and
alleys to install, operate, maintain and remove, from time to time, facilities
used in connection with the transmission and distribution of electricity and
sounds and signals, together with the right to install required service
connections to serve the improvements of each lot, the right to cut down and
remove or trim and keep trimmed any trees, shrubs or saplings that interfere or
threaten to interfere with any of said public utility equipment. The location
of facilities in platted streets and alleys shall not conflict with public
improvements and shall be subject to village approval. No permanent buildings
or trees shall be placed on said easement, but same may be used for gardens,
shrubs, landscaping and other purposes that do not then or later interfere with
the aforesaid uses or the rights herein granted. All utility lines shall be
constructed underground. No overhead lines will be permitted.
   C.   Public Utility Easements; Nicor: Nicor, its successor and assigns, is
hereby given easement rights to all platted streets and alleys. Said easement
to be for the installation, relocation, renewal and removal of gas mains and
appurtenances. Location of mains and appurtenances shall not conflict with
public improvements and shall be subject to village approval.
   D.   Drainage Easement: The village of Hampshire is hereby given easement
rights to all platted easements designated "drainage easement" or "DE" to
install, operate and maintain underground and surface drainage facilities and
watercourses. Said easements shall be used for no other purpose except as
expressly authorized by the village. No permanent buildings shall be placed on
said easement, but same may be used for gardens, shrubs, landscaping and other
purposes that do not then or later interfere with the aforesaid uses or the
rights herein granted.
   E.   Village Utility Easements: The village of Hampshire is hereby given
exclusive easement rights to all platted easements designated "village utility
easement" or "VUE" and joint easement rights with public utilities in easements
designated as "utility easement" or "UE". Said easement shall be used solely to
install, operate, maintain and remove from time to time underground facilities
and appurtenances used in connection with the water, sanitary sewer or storm
drainage systems of the village of Hampshire, except that the easements may be
graded as swales to receive local surface drainage. No permanent building or
trees shall be placed on said easement, but same may be used for gardens,
shrubs, landscaping and other purposes that do not then or later interfere with
the aforesaid uses or rights herein granted. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
7-5-10: FORMS FOR CERTIFICATIONS:
The following approval certificates, when applicable, shall be included on the
final plat of subdivision:
   SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS)
) ss
COUNTY OF         )
THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT I,                     , ILLINOIS PROFESSIONAL LAND
SURVEYOR NO.           , AT THE REQUEST OF THE OWNER(S) THEREOF, HAVE SURVEYED,
SUBDIVIDED AND PLATTED THE FOLLOWING DESCRIBED PROPERTY:
   (INSERT LEGAL DESCRIPTION)
I FURTHER CERTIFY THAT THE PLAT HEREON DRAWN IS A CORRECT AND ACCURATE
REPRESENTATION OF SAID SURVEY AND SUBDIVISION. ALL DISTANCES ARE SHOWN IN FEET
AND DECIMAL PARTS THEREOF IF FURTHER CERTIFY THAT (NO) PART OF THE ABOVE
DESCRIBED PROPERTY IS LOCATED WITHIN A SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA AS IDENTIFIED
BY THE FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY BASED ON F.I.R.M.
                   , DATED,                     . I FURTHER CERTIFY THAT I HAVE
SET ALL SUBDIVISION MONUMENTS AND DESCRIBED THEM ON THIS FINAL PLAT AS REQUIRED
BY THE PLAT ACT (ILLINOIS REVISED STATUTES 1977, CHAPTER 109 SECTION 1).
I FURTHER CERTIFY THAT THE PROPERTY SHOWN ON THE PLAT HEREON DRAWN IS SITUATED
WITHIN THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE VILLAGE OF HAMPSHIRE, ILLINOIS, WHICH IS
EXERCISING THE SPECIAL POWERS AUTHORIZED BY DIVISION 12 OF ARTICLE 11 OF THE
ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL CODE AS AMENDED.
GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND SEAL AT                     , ILLINOIS, THIS        
DAY OF                     , 20    .
                                                       
   ILLINOIS PROFESSIONAL LAND
      EXPIRES:    
   OWNERSHIP CERTIFICATE (Individual)
STATE OF            )
)ss
COUNTY OF         )
THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT                               , IS THE FEE SIMPLE OWNER
OF THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED IN THE FOREGOING SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE AND HAS
CAUSED THE SAME TO BE SURVEYED, SUBDIVIDED, AND PLATTED AS SHOWN HEREON FOR THE
USES AND PURPOSES HEREIN SET FORTH AS ALLOWED AND PROVIDED FOR BY STATUTE, AND
HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGES AND ADOPTS THE SAME UNDER THE STYLE AND TITLE AFORESAID.
THE UNDERSIGNED HEREBY DEDICATES FOR PUBLIC USE THE LANDS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT
FOR THOROUGHFARES, STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC SERVICES; AND HEREBY ALSO
RESERVES FOR THE VILLAGE OF HAMPSHIRE, AMERITECH, COM ED, NICOR, MEDIACOM AND
THEIR RESPECTIVE SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS, THE EASEMENT PROVISIONS WHICH ARE
STATED AND SHOWN HEREON.
THE UNDERSIGNED FURTHER CERTIFY THAT ALL OF THE LAND INCLUDED IN THIS PLAT LIES
WITHIN THE BOUNDARIES OF COMMUNITY UNIT SCHOOL DISTRICT 300.
DATED AT                     ,            COUNTY, ILLINOIS, THIS       DAY OF
                    , 20   .
                                                                                   
OWNEROWNER
STATE OF            )
)ss
COUNTY OF         )
I,                     , A NOTARY PUBLIC IN AND FOR THE COUNTY AND STATE
AFORESAID, DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT                      AND
                    , PERSONALLY KNOWN TO ME TO BE THE SAME PERSON WHOSE NAMES
ARE SUBSCRIBED TO THE FOREGOING INSTRUMENT, APPEARED BEFORE ME THIS DAY AND
ACKNOWLEDGED THAT THEY SIGNED AND DELIVERED THE SAID INSTRUMENT AS THEIR FREE
AND VOLUNTARY ACT, FOR THE USES AND PURPOSES THEREIN SET FORTH.
GIVEN UNDER MAY HAND AND NOTARIAL SEAL THIS        DAY OF           , 20   .
                                           
NOTARY PUBLIC
   OWNERSHIP CERTIFICATE (Corporation)
STATE OF            )
)ss
COUNTY OF         )
THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT                     , AN                     
CORPORATION, IS THE FEE SIMPLE OWNER OF THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED IN THE FOREGOING
SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE AND THROUGH ITS DULY ELECTED OFFICERS, HAS CAUSED THE
SAME TO BE SURVEYED, SUBDIVIDED, AND PLATTED AS SHOWN HEREON FOR THE USES AND
PURPOSES HEREIN SET FORTH AS ALLOWED AND PROVIDED FOR BY STATUTE, AND HEREBY
ACKNOWLEDGES AND ADOPTS THE SAME UNDER THE STYLE AND TITLE AFORESAID.
THE UNDERSIGNED, NOT INDIVIDUALLY, BUT AS THE DULY ELECTED OFFICERS OF SAID
CORPORATION, HEREBY DEDICATES FOR PUBLIC USE THE LANDS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT FOR
THOROUGHFARES, STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC SERVICES; AND HEREBY ALSO RESERVES
FOR THE VILLAGE OF HAMPSHIRE, AMERITECH, COM ED, NICOR, MEDIACOM AND THEIR
RESPECTIVE SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS, THE EASEMENT PROVISIONS WHICH ARE STATED AND
SHOWN HEREON.
THE UNDERSIGNED, NOT INDIVIDUALLY, BUT AS DULY ELECTED OFFICERS OF SAID
CORPORATION, FURTHER CERTIFY THAT ALL OF THE LAND INCLUDED IN THIS PLAT LIES
WITHIN THE BOUNDARIES OF COMMUNITY UNIT SCHOOL DISTRICT 300.
DATED AT                     ,            COUNTY, ILLINOIS THIS       DAY OF
                       , 20   .
                                                                                   
PRESIDENTSECRETARY
STATE OF            )
)ss
COUNTY OF         )
I,                     , A NOTARY PUBLIC IN AND FOR THE COUNTY AND STATE
AFORESAID, DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT                      AND
                    , PERSONALLY KNOWN TO ME TO BE OFFICERS OF
                    , APPEARED BEFORE ME THIS DAY AND ACKNOWLEDGED THAT THEY
SIGNED AND DELIVERED THE SAID INSTRUMENT AS THEIR FREE AND VOLUNTARY ACT AND
THE FREE AND VOLUNTARY ACT OF SAID CORPORATION, FOR THE USES AND PURPOSES
THEREIN SET FORTH.
GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND NOTARIAL SEAL THIS       DAY OF                  ,
20   .
                                      
NOTARY PUBLIC
   OWNERSHIP CERTIFICATE (Trust)
STATE OF            )      )ss
COUNTY OF         )
THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT                     , A(N)                 BANKING
CORPORATION, AS TRUSTEE, UNDER THE PROVISIONS OF A TRUST AGREEMENT DATED
               , AND KNOWN AS TRUST NO.      , AND NOT INDIVIDUALLY IS THE FEE
SIMPLE OWNER OF THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED IN THE FOREGOING SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
AND THAT SAID BANK HAS CAUSED THE SAME TO BE SURVEYED, SUBDIVIDED, AND PLATTED
AS SHOWN HEREON FOR THE USES AND PURPOSES HEREIN SET FORTH AS ALLOWED AND
PROVIDED FOR BY STATUTE, AND SAID BANK AS TRUSTEE, AND NOT INDIVIDUALLY, HEREBY
ACKNOWLEDGES AND ADOPTS THE SAME UNDER THE STYLE AND TITLE AFORESAID.
THE UNDERSIGNED HEREBY DEDICATES FOR PUBLIC USE THE LANDS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT
FOR THOROUGHFARES, STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC SERVICES; AND HEREBY ALSO
RESERVES FOR THE VILLAGE OF HAMPSHIRE, AMERITECH, COM ED, NICOR, MEDIACOM AND
THEIR RESPECTIVE SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS, THE EASEMENT PROVISIONS WHICH ARE
STATED AND SHOWN HEREON.
THE UNDERSIGNED FURTHER CERTIFY THAT ALL OF THE LAND INCLUDED IN THIS PLAT LIES
WITHIN THE BOUNDARIES OF COMMUNITY UNIT SCHOOL DISTRICT 300.
DATES AT                     ,                 COUNTY, ILLINOIS THIS       DAY
OF                , 20   .
                    , AS TRUSTEE OF TRUST NO.       AND NOT PERSONALLY.
BY:                                         
STATE OF            )
)ss
COUNTY OF         )
I,                     , A NOTARY PUBLIC IN AND FOR THE COUNTY AND STATE
AFORESAID, DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT                      AND
                    , PERSONALLY KNOWN TO ME TO BE OFFICERS OF
                    , AS SHOWN ABOVE, APPEARED BEFORE ME THIS DAY AND
ACKNOWLEDGED THAT AS SUCH OFFICERS, THEY SIGNED AND DELIVERED THE SAID
INSTRUMENT AND CAUSED THE CORPORATE SEAL TO BE AFFIXED THERETO AS THEIR FREE
AND VOLUNTARY ACT AND AS THE FREE AND VOLUNTARY ACT OF SAID BANK AS TRUSTEE
UNDER TRUST NO.      , DATED                , FOR THE USES AND PURPOSES THEREIN
SET FORTH.
GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND NOTARIAL SEAL THIS         DAY OF                   ,
20   .
            NOTARY PUBLIC
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS)
)ss
COUNTY OF KANE)
THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT THE MEMBERS OF THE PLAN COMMISSION OF THE VILLAGE OF
HAMPSHIRE HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THE ABOVE PLAT.
DATED THIS       DAY OF                , 20   .
                                               CHAIR
                                            SECRETARY
   VILLAGE BOARD CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS)
)ss
COUNTY OF KANE)
APPROVED BY THE PRESIDENT AND THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF
HAMPSHIRE, ILLINOIS, THIS       DAY OF                , 20   .
            VILLAGE PRESIDENT
            ATTEST:
                 VILLAGE CLERK
   VILLAGE COLLECTOR'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS)
)ss
COUNTY OF KANE)
   I,                     , VILLAGE COLLECTOR OF THE VILLAGE OF HAMPSHIRE, DO
HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THERE ARE NO DELINQUENT OR UNPAID CURRENT OR FORFEITED
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS OR ANY DEFERRED INSTALLMENTS THEREOF THAT HAVE BEEN
APPORTIONED AGAINST THE TRACT OF LAND INCLUDED IN THIS PLAT.
   DATED AT HAMPSHIRE, KANE COUNTY, ILLINOIS. THIS       DAY OF
               , 20   .
                                        
VILLAGE COLLECTOR
   VILLAGE ENGINEER'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS)
)S.S.
COUNTY OF KANE)
APPROVED BY THE VILLAGE ENGINEER OF THE VILLAGE OF HAMPSHIRE, ILLINOIS, THIS
      DAY OF                , 20   .
         VILLAGE ENGINEER
         License Number Expiration Date
(Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
7-5-11: REIMBURSEMENT OF CERTAIN FEES:
All fees incurred by the village for engineering, legal or consultant services
rendered in regard to subdivision of land pursuant to this chapter, and/or any
petition, proposal or other inquiry related thereto, shall be billed to and
paid by the person or persons who make the petition, proposal or other inquiry
as to which the services are rendered. Any application for preliminary plan
review shall be reimbursed to the village by the person or persons who make the
application. (Ord. 01-30, 9-20-2001; amd. Ord. 01-31, 9-20-2001)
ARTICLE VI
DEDICATION OF PUBLIC USE AREAS, SCHOOL AND PARK SITES
(Rep. by Ord. 92-15, 11-19-1992)
ARTICLE VII
ANNEXATION
SECTION:
7-7-1: Application
7-7-2: Fees
7-7-3: Reimbursement Of Fees
7-7-1: APPLICATION:
Petition for annexation of any property to the village shall be made in
accordance with the requirements of the Illinois municipal code, 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes, 5/7-1-1 et seq., as amended from time to time. (Ord. 87-3,
3-19-1987)
7-7-2: FEES:
At the time of filing a petition for annexation, the petition shall be
accompanied by payment of a fee, in cash, certified check or money order
payable to the village of Hampshire, at such rate as shall be established from
time to time by the village board of trustees. Acres shall be rounded to the
nearest tenth of an acre, and the fee prorated accordingly. (Ord. 01-30, 9-20-
2001; amd. Ord. 01-31, 9-20-2001)
7-7-3: REIMBURSEMENT OF FEES:
All fees incurred by the village for engineering, legal or consultant services
rendered in regard to subdivision of land pursuant to this chapter, and/or any
petition, proposal or other inquiry related thereto, shall be billed to and
paid by the person or persons who make the petition, proposal or other inquiry
as to which the services are rendered. (Ord. 01-30, 9-20-2001)
CHAPTER 8
WATER AND SEWER
Water And Sewer Systems   I
Cross Connection Control   II
Water Conservation Regulations   III
Industrial Wastewater Pretreatment
Regulations   IV
Restrictions On Use Of Groundwater
For Potable Purposes   V
ARTICLE I
WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-2: Water And Sewer Systems, General Provisions
8-1-3: Water And Sewer Connections
8-1-4: Service Pipes
8-1-5: Water Meters; Location; Testing Required
8-1-6: Water Service Regulations
8-1-7: Sewer Service And Use Regulations
8-1-8: Private Sewage Disposal
8-1-9: Water And Sewer Rates; Billing, Delinquency
8-1-10: Industrial Cost Recovery
8-1-11: Liability Of The Property Owner
8-1-12: Penalties
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of the terms
used in this article shall be as follows. Additional applicable definitions are
set out in this article, including, but not limited to, the abbreviations and
definitions included in section
8-4-1 of this chapter.
AMMONIA-NITROGEN: The ammonia concentration contained in wastewater, determined
by standard laboratory test procedures and expressed in milligrams per liter as
N.
BASIC USER CHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period by all public
sewer users for payment of operation and maintenance costs plus replacement of
the sewerage works.
BOD (Denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
from a single building which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other
drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building
sewer, beginning five feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both wastewater and land runoff.
CONTAMINANT: Any solid, liquid or gaseous matter, any odor or any form of
energy, from water source.
CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure specifically designed and constructed for sampling
and metering industrial wastes discharged to a public sewer.
FEDERAL ACT: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC 1251 et seq.) as
amended by the federal water pollution control act of amendments of 1972
(public laws 92-500 and 92-243), and all amendments thereto and regulations
established thereunder.
GARBAGE: Wastes resulting from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and consumption of food, and from the handling, processing, storage and sale of
produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: Any solid, liquid or gaseous wastes resulting from any
process or excess energy of industry, manufacturing, trade or business or from
the development, processing or recovery, except for agricultural crop raising,
of any natural resource.
LAND RUNOFF: Water reaching the waters of the village as runoff resulting from
precipitation.
mg/l: Milligrams per liter.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document to regulate the discharge of
pollutants pursuant to section 402 of the federal act.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS: All costs accrued in the collection and
treatment of sewage. Includes billing, auditing, and equipment replacement
costs.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, political subdivision, state
agency or any legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents, or assigns.
pH: The logarithm of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of
solution.
POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other wastes on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is equal
to a discharge of one hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, seventeen-
hundredths (0.17) pound of BOD per day and/or twenty-hundredths (0.20) pound of
suspended solids per day.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer which is controlled by the village or other public
authority.
REPLACEMENT COSTS: Expenditures for purchasing and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the sewerage works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed.
RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL OR NONINDUSTRIAL USER: Any user of the sewerage works
not classified as an industrial user or excluded as an industrial user.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer designed and intended to carry wastewater only.
SEWAGE: Water carried human and related wastes from any source.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying either wastewater or land runoff.
SEWER USER SERVICE CHARGE: The total amount to be paid each billing period by
public sewer users including the basic user charge and a surcharge, if
applicable.
SHALL, MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
STATE ACT: The Illinois environmental protection act, effective July 1, 1970,
and all amendments to and regulations established thereunder.
STATE GRANT: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois anti-pollution
bond act and for making such grants as filed with the secretary of the state of
Illinois.
STORM SEWER: A sewer designed and intended to receive land runoff only.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of public works of the village, or his
authorized deputy, agent or representative, provided, any such deputy, agent or
representative shall be issued and shall carry on his or her person an
appropriate identification of such authority.
SURCHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period by certain public sewer
users in addition to the basic user charge.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
TREATMENT WORKS: Individually or collectively those constructions or devices,
except sewers, used for collecting, pumping, treating or disposing of
wastewaters or for the recovery of byproducts from such wastewater, including
the publicly owned treatment works ("POTW") owned and operated by the village.
USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the sewerage works will be
operated and shall be thirty (30) years from the date of startup.
USER CLASS: A classification of user of the sewers and/or treatment works,
either a residential or commercial (nonindustrial) user, as defined herein.
VILLAGE: The village of Hampshire, Kane County, Illinois.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently.
WATERS: All accumulations of water, surface and underground, natural and
artificial, public and private, or parts thereof, which are wholly or partially
within, flow through or border upon the village. (Ord. 07-55, 11-15-2007)
8-1-2: WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS, GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   System Established, Administration, Limits:
      1.   The system of water supply and distribution and waterworks plant
heretofore established, built and constructed by the village, and the sewer
systems, trunk lines, lift stations and disposal plant built and constructed by
the village, established by ordinance passed by the village board of trustees
April 7, 1955, as a combined waterworks and sewerage system under article 62 of
the revised cities and villages act 1 , are hereby continued as village
property and under village control, jurisdiction and management. Said systems
and plants shall at all times be maintained, repaired, altered, changed,
controlled and extended under the authority and ownership of the village. Said
systems and plants shall be under the jurisdiction of the department of public
works.
      2.   No future sanitary sewer and water mains or lines shall be extended
beyond the corporate boundaries of the village unless approved by a two-thirds
(2/3) majority vote of the village board.
   B.   Inspection Of Plumbing Work:
      1.   Approval: All outside plumbing work and plumbing shall be subject to
the approval of the superintendent or his authorized agent.
      2.   Inspection: No part of plumbing or drainage work shall be covered
over until it has been tested, inspected and approved. If any drainage or
plumbing system or part thereof is covered or concealed before being regularly
inspected, tested and approved, it shall be exposed upon the direction of the
superintendent or his authorized agent.
      3.   Right Of Entry: The superintendent shall be permitted to enter and
have free access at all reasonable hours to buildings, premises or places
containing any such connection, branches, plumbing, or plumbing work in any
manner or way connected with said system or plant, to ascertain the location
and condition thereof and all fixtures connected therewith.
      4.   Reports: It shall be the duty of any plumber performing plumbing
work, or installing plumbing or making repairs to plumbing in the village,
connected with said system or plants, to make a report in writing to said
superintendent showing in detail all such work and the number and size of all
openings therein through which water can be taken and through which sewage can
be discharged.
   C.   Interpretation Of Service: All connections for sewer and water applied
for hereunder and all water used hereunder shall be upon the express condition
that the village shall not be liable, nor will any claim be made against it,
for damage or injury caused by reasons of the breaking of any mains,
connections, branches, service pipes or apparatus or appurtenances connected
therewith, or any part or portion of said systems, or plants, or for
interruption of the service and supply, or by reason of the breakage of
machinery, or by reason of the stoppage for repairs, alterations, extensions or
renewals.
   D.   Tampering Prohibited; Protection From Damage:
      1.   Tampering With Water System: It shall be unlawful for any
unauthorized person, including any State agency, its employees, servants, or
agents, to connect to, tamper with, alter, interfere with, or operate any part
of the village waterworks or sewer system, or its component parts, whether
located within or outside the Village boundaries.
         a.   Tampering shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
            (1)   Defacement or breaking of any seal affixed by the department
of public works to any meter, valve, fitting, or other water connection.
            (2)   Interference with or alteration of the proper registration of
water meters.
            (3)   Opening or using water from any fire hydrant, unless
authorized to do so by the Village pursuant to Section
8-1-9(A) of this article.
      2.   Protection of Sewage Works: No unauthorized person shall
maliciously, willfully, recklessly, or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface, contaminate, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
equipment or operation which is a part of the sewage works.
      3.   Arrest: Any person violating the provisions of Section
8-1-2D shall be subject to immediate arrest under a charge of disorderly
conduct or other appropriate charge; and shall be subject to penalty as
prescribed in Section
8-1-12 of this article.
   E.   Power And Authority Of Sewer Inspectors:
      1.   The superintendent shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this article, including, but not limited to,
the authority specifically provided under section
8-4-6 of this chapter.
      2.   The superintendent shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the village holds an easement for the purposes of, but
not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and
maintenance of any part of any sewer, or treatment works, lying within said
easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of any applicable agreement relating to
such easement.
      3.   If the superintendent has been refused access to a property or any
pertinent portion thereof, after request for entry, the superintendent may
petition a judge of the local circuit court for issuance of, and may obtain, an
appropriate search warrant, in accordance with law, for purposes of carrying
out his duties under this article. (Ord. 07-55, 11-15-2007; amd. Ord. 20-24, 7-
2-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-139-1.
8-1-3: WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Water And Sewer Connections, Permit:
      1.   Permit Required:
         a.   Permit; Fee: No connection to any water main or sanitary sewer
transmission line shall be made without a permit issued by the village, and
payment of the applicable permit fee, in accord with the requirements of this
section.
         b.   Excavation Fee: There shall be an additional fee to be paid to
the village at the same time the connection permit is issued, to secure the
restoration of any affected public property upon completion of the connection.
The amount of the fee, and any portion thereof to be returned to the permit
holder upon satisfactory restoration of any street, sidewalk, parkway and any
other affected public property, shall be established from time to time by the
corporate authorities.
      2.   Notice: No connection to any sewer or water main line shall be made
without the person so connecting having given twenty four (24) hours' notice to
said superintendent as to when the connection shall be made and ready for
inspection.
      3.   Single Building Permit: A special permit must be obtained for each
connection serving a single building, residence, premises or place.
      4.   Branch Connection Permit: When branch connections are used to serve
additional buildings, residences, premises or places, a permit must be obtained
for each branch serving a single building, residence, premises or place.
      5.   Record Of Permits: It shall be the duty of the superintendent, at
the time application is made as herein required, to make a written record of
the statements and representations of the applicant as to place, location, kind
and extent of the connection to be made, the purpose for which the water is to
be used, and all the plumbing and plumbing work in any manner or way to be
connected therewith, as is by this chapter required of such applicant to be
given specifically and in detail.
   B.   Building Sewer Connections, Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: No person shall uncover, make any connections with
or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the superintendent and paying all
applicable fees to the village clerk.
      2.   Classes: There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits:
a) for residential and commercial service, and b) for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the village. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent. The applicant shall
pay such fee or fees as established from time to time by the corporate
authorities.
      3.   Requirements: A building sewer permit will be issued and a sewer
connection shall be allowed only if it is demonstrated that the downstream
sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
      4.   Installation Costs: All costs and expense incidental to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or damage that may directly
or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
      5.   Joint Building Sewer Use: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building, and no two (2) or more buildings or users
shall share any sewer line as a joint building sewer.
      6.   Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
superintendent, to meet all requirements of this article.
      7.   Materials: The building sewer shall be polyvinyl chloride plastic
gravity sewer pipe (PVC) and fittings conforming to ASTM designation D-3034 or
D-2241 with an SDR of 26, with elastomeric gasket joints conforming to ASTM
designation D-3139, or other suitable materials approved by the superintendent.
      8.   Size And Slope: The size and slope of the building sewer shall be
subject to the approval of the superintendent, but in no event shall the
diameter be less than six inches (6"). The slope of such six inch (6") pipe
shall be not less than one- eighth inch (1/8") per foot.
      9.   Elevation: Whenever possible, in the discretion of the
superintendent, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to
or within three feet (3') of any bearing wall which might thereby be weakened.
The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The building
sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as
possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe and
fitting.
      10.   Lifting: In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building
sewer.
      11.   Construction: The building sewer pipe shall be bedded on a layer of
gravel or crushed stone conforming to ASTM no. 67 specifications, and shall
have a minimum thickness of four inches (4") under the pipe barrel and two
inches (2") under bells. It shall be carefully placed and compacted around the
pipe to provide uniform support to the bottom quadrant. No backfill shall be
placed until the work has been inspected.
      12.   Connection: The connection of the building sewer into the public
sewer shall be made at the "Y" branch, if such branch is available at a
suitable location. If the public sewer is twelve inches (12") in diameter or
less, and no properly located "Y" branch in the public sewer at the location
specified by the superintendent. Where the public sewer is greater than twelve
inches (12") in diameter, and no properly located "Y" branch is available, a
neat hole may be cut into the public sewer to receive the building sewer, with
entry in the downstream direction at an angle of about forty five degrees
(45°). A forty five degree (45°) "L" may be used to make such connection, with
the spigot end cut so as not to extend past the inner surface of the public
sewer. The invert of the building sewer at the point of connection shall be at
the same or at a higher elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A
smooth, neat joint shall be made, and the connection made secure and watertight
by encasement in concrete. Special fittings may be used for the connection only
when approved by the superintendent.
      13.   Inspection: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall
notify the superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the superintendent or his representative.
      14.   Excavations: All excavations for building sewer installation shall
be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public
from hazard. No street, sidewalk, parkway or other public property shall be
disturbed in the course of the work except in compliance with the applicable
provisions of chapter 9 of this code.
      15.   Runoff: No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts,
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   C.   Connection Fees:
      1.   Water Connection Fees:
         a.   Residential Uses: For each separate single-family residence,
duplex, townhouse, apartment, or condominium dwelling unit, the connection fee
for water service shall be as follows:
 
Studio/efficiency $2,000.00
1 bedroom         $2,400.00
2-3 bedroom       $4,600.00
Single-family     $5,200.00
 
   Provided, any apartment building or condominium building is constructed with
only one water connection without separate connections or meters to each
dwelling unit therein, shall be defined as a Commercial Building, and the
connection fee shall be as set out in sub-section 1(b) below.
         b.   Office, Commercial And Industrial Uses: A unit for purposes of
this section shall be defined as a separate office, commercial or industrial
use which is separated physically or financially as a separate fee ownership,
or rental, by the landlord or owner of the respective property, and the
connection fee for water service shall be charged as follows:
 
1 inch meter   $1,200.00
1 ½ inch meter$1,500.00
2 inch meter   $2,500.00
3 inch meter   $3,750.00
4 inch meter   $5,600.00
5 inch meter   $6,250.00
6 inch meter   $7,500.00
 
   Provided, where any office, commercial or industrial building is constructed
with only one connection, without separate connections to each unit therein
which is otherwise separated physically or financially as a separate ownership
or rental by the owner of the property, the connection fee to be charged will
be calculated as set out in this sub-section based on the size of the water
meter(s) for the building.
   Provided further, for any water meter greater than 6" in size, for each
increment of 1" or any part thereof a sum equal to $1,250.00 shall be added to
the fee prescribed herein for a 6" meter.
      2.   Sanitary Sewer Connection Fees:
         a.   For each separate single-family residence, duplex, townhouse,
apartment, or condominium dwelling unit, the connection fee for sewer service
shall be as follows:
 
Studio/efficiency $2,190.00
1 bedroom         $2,685.00
2-3 bedroom       $5,370.00
Single-family     $6,265.00
 
   Provided, any apartment building or condominium building is constructed with
only one water connection without separate connections or meters to each
dwelling unit therein, shall be defined as a Commercial Building, and the
connection fee shall be as set out in sub-section 2(b) below.
         b.   Office, Commercial And Industrial Uses: A unit for purposes of
this section shall be defined as a separate office, commercial or industrial
use which is separated physically or financially as a separate fee ownership,
or rental, by the landlord or owner of the respective property, and the
connection fee for sanitary sewer service shall be charged as follows:
 
1 inch meter   $3,000.00
1 ½ inch meter$5,000.00
2 inch meter   $7,000.00
3 inch meter   $10,500.00
4 inch meter   $14,000.00
5 inch meter   $17,500.00
6 inch meter   $21,000.00
 
   Provided, where any office, commercial or industrial building is constructed
with only one connection, without separate connections to each unit therein
which is otherwise separated physically or financially as a separate ownership
or rental by the owner of the property, the connection fee to be charged will
be calculated as set out in this sub-section based on the size of the water
meter(s) for the building.
   Provided further, for any water meter greater than 6" in size, for each
increment of 1" or any part thereof a sum equal to $3,500 shall be added to fee
prescribed herein for a 6" meter.
      3.   Definition: For purposes of this section, a "dwelling unit" shall be
defined as set forth in the village zoning regulations in section
6-2-2 of this code.
      4.   Connection Fees: All connection fees shall be paid upon submitting
application for a building permit, unless otherwise provided in any agreement
between the owner and the village. (Ord. 07-55, 11-15-2007; amd. Ord. 21-17, 5-
20-2021; Ord. 21-20, 6-3-2021)
8-1-4: SERVICE PIPES:
   A.   Installation And Maintenance:
      1.   All service pipes for sewer or water from the main to the premises
to be served shall be installed by, and at the cost of the owners of the
property to be served or the applicant for the service. Such installations
shall be under the supervision of the superintendent of public works.
      2.   Maintenance responsibility for water pipes shall be as follows:
         a.   From the building to the curb stop/B-box described in this
section shall be the responsibility of the building owner.
         b.   From the curb stop/B-box to the main shall be responsibility of
the village.
         c.   The curb stop/B-box shall be the responsibility of the village.
      3.   Maintenance responsibility for sewer pipes shall be as follows:
         a.   From the building to the main shall be the responsibility of the
building owner.
         b.   From the main to the sewer plant shall be the responsibility of
the village.
   B.   Water Pipes:
      1.   The connection line from the main and all authorized branches of the
main to the inside line of the building or house shall be placed and maintained
at least five and one-half feet (51/2') below the surface of the ground and
shall be made of type K copper tubing or ductile iron cement lined pipe meeting
AWWA specifications.
      2.   The copper tubing shall be laid sufficiently waving so that it shall
be at least one foot (1') longer than if laid straight and be placed in such a
manner as to prevent rupture or breakage from settling of the ground.
      3.   Minimum diameter of copper tubing for service shall be one inch
(1").
      4.   No branch shall extend more than thirty feet (30') on either side
from such connection.
      5.   All connections where the same join the main shall be at least
twenty four inches (24") apart.
   C.   Water Shutoff Boxes:
      1.   A curb stop/B-box shall be inserted in each service pipe at a
convenient point along the line, between the sidewalk and the property line to
provide shutoff capability to each metered service.
      2.   Every connection pipe shall have an iron cutoff box attached.
      3.   There shall be a stop and waste cock attached to every connection
pipe at the point where it enters the building.
      4.   All curb stop/B-boxes used in connection with said waterworks system
shall be made of "standard" brass and be strong enough to resist pressure of
water in all cases.
      5.   Curb stop/B-boxes shall not be located within any sidewalk and/or
driveway.
      6.   Materials shall comply with the village standards.
   D.   Sewer Pipes:
      1.   The connection from the main to the inside line of the building or
house shall be placed and maintained at least three feet (3') below the surface
of the ground and shall be made of PVC (SCH 40 or SDR 26 minimum) or approved
equal.
      2.   The connection shall be of sufficient pitch from the building or
house to the main to allow sufficient gravity flow to occur to the main, but in
no case with a pitch less than one percent (1%).
      3.   Minimum diameter of pipe shall be six inches (6").
      4.   All connections, where the same join the main, shall be twenty four
inches (24") apart.
      5.   Each residential building or commercial unit shall have a separately
maintained service line to the main. However, if for more than one building or
unit only one tap is made on the main, a manhole must be installed at the point
where separate lines branch to service a building, house or commercial unit.
      6.   Each commercial or industrial building shall have an inspection
manhole constructed outside of the building. (Ord. 06-58, 11-2-2006)
8-1-5: WATER METERS; LOCATION; TESTING REQUIRED:
   A.   Meter Required: All premises using water from the village water system
shall be equipped with an accurate water meter provided by the village, but
paid for by the customer. No water shall be taken from the village system
except through lines equipped with a village approved water meter. All meters
are and shall continue to be the property of and maintained by the village.
   B.   Installation: A water meter shall be installed on the owner's property
by a licensed plumber.
      1.   There shall be no more than one village water meter per residential
occupancy. The department of public works may elect to install one water meter
to serve multiple residential units in residential dwellings that are at least
two (2) stories in height and contain thirty (30) or more individual
residential units (multi-unit dwellings).
      2.   When conditions or circumstances make installation inside the
building in the manner described in this section unfeasible, then by special
permit issued by the superintendent of public works, the meter may be installed
as follows:
         a.   There shall be a box or vault provided to house the meter, not
less than two and one-half feet by two and one-half feet (21/2' x 21/2') in
area, and not less than ten inches (10") in depth below basement floor level,
with metal cover of not less than 10-gauge steel or cast iron. The walls and
bottom of the vault shall be constructed of masonry or concrete not less than
four inches (4") thick.
         b.   This vault shall be placed as close as possible to the entrance
wall of the building. The water service shall enter the vault eight inches (8")
from the opposite diagonal corner, and the meter shall be located approximately
in the center of the vault.
   C.   Location: Water meters shall be located in such a position so as to
afford easy access for reading, inspection, and maintenance. Periodic water
meter and readout inspections shall be made by the superintendent of public
works, or his designee, upon proper notification to the property owner and/or
tenant.
   D.   Remote Reader: All new water services shall be connected to the current
water billings system.
   E.   Inspection, Testing: Village water meters shall be inspected and tested
as determined by the village's department of public works. Meters may be tested
at the request of the property owner or his occupant in accordance with the fee
schedule set out in this code. If the meter is found to be inaccurate by a
factor greater than ten percent (10%), the testing fee shall be returned to the
payer (owner or occupant) and a replacement meter shall be installed by the
village. Should the meter be found to be accurate within ten percent (10%), the
fee shall be retained by the village.
   F.   Shutoff: There shall be a shutoff installed on both sides of the meter
of the kind known as a ball valve.
   G.   Fire Line: When conditions warrant or require a fire service line, then
a separate fire service line shall be constructed from the main to the
building, in addition to the usual water service line. (Ord. 06-58, 11-2-2006)
8-1-6: WATER SERVICE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Public Hydrants, Faucets: No permit shall be required for the placing
of public hydrants, fire hydrants, public fountains or public fixtures, or for
any work connected with same, but the same shall be installed and constructed
in the manner and when directed by the Village.
      1.   Water from public hydrants shall be used only for municipal and
fire-fighting purposes and only by the officials designated herein; except that
public drinking fountains may be used by the public.
      2.   Except as may otherwise be allowed under this article, no person
except officers, employees and agents of the governing fire protection district
or the Village President, Chief of Police, Trustees, or Superintendent, in the
line of their respective public duties, shall take any water from any public
hydrant or other public fixture connected with the Village water system.
      3.   All water from public hydrants or faucets shall be taken therefrom
only for immediate use and consumption at such public hydrants or faucets, and
shall not otherwise be used for private purposes in any way, except as provided
in Section
8-1-9A.
      4.   All public hydrants and street washers shall extend at least five
and one-half feet (51/2') into the ground, and shall have a good and sufficient
drip well surrounded with rubble stone, so as to allow free drainage of water
from the bottom thereof. A ground line flange shall be located at the ground
line, and shall be exposed.
   B.   Obstruction, Interference: No person shall in any manner obstruct the
access to any curb stop/B-box, hydrant, or valve, or any public faucet or
opening in any street, avenue, alley, public ground or place connected with or
a part of the Village water system, nor pile or place any lumber, brick or
building material or other article, thing or hindrance whatsoever so as to in
any manner interfere with said access.
   C.   Water For Construction Sites: During construction of any building, and
before any water meter has been installed, the person so constructing such
building may be permitted to use the Village water supply by making application
to the Superintendent. The Superintendent shall also make nonpotable water
available at the POTW for such use.
   D.   Emergency Water Supply: In case of a conflagration or grave calamity of
fire impending or drought, the Village President shall have the right and
authority, by proclamation posted in five (5) public places in the Village, to
wholly suspend and prohibit for such length of time as exigency may require,
the drawing or using of water for public or private purposes, or for any
purpose other than to meet such exigency.
   E.   Water Service Outside Village Limits:
      1.   Any connection to a Village water supply and distribution main that
may be made outside the corporate limits of the Village shall be subject to the
following:
         a.   All water services lines, plumbing and plumbing fixtures, and any
other appurtenances and appliances needed for such water service shall be in
accordance with all provisions of the Village Plumbing Code and the regulations
set forth in this chapter.
         b.   Any person requesting such connection shall pay to the Village
such application fees, inspection fees, user charges, and other fees specified
by the Village for such connection.
      2.   The Village may require the owner of the property to be served with
such water connection to execute and deliver to the Village a written agreement
specifying any and all terms and conditions for providing such service,
including but not limited to, the usage charge specified in subsection E3 of
this section, and any other charges or fees related to such service.
      3.   The usage rate to be charged to an owner of such property to be
served with a water connection shall be one and one-half (11/2) times the rate
charged to a resident of the Village as adjusted from time to time during the
time of service; provided further, any capital improvement fee charged to a
resident of the Village for water service shall be charged at one hundred
percent (100%) of said rate, unless otherwise specified in an agreement between
the parties made pursuant to subsection E2 of this section. (Ord. 07-55, 11-15-
2007; amd. Ord. 17-11, 3-16-2017; Ord. 20-24, 7-2-2020)
8-1-7: SEWER SERVICE AND USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Use Of Public Sewers Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to
be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
Village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the Village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to discharge any sewage or other polluted
waters, either to any waters within the Village, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the Village, except where suitable treatment of such waters has
been provided in accordance with applicable law, rules, and regulations.
      3.   The owner of any house, building or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the
Village and abutting on any street, alley or right- of-way in which there is
now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the
Village, is hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sanitary sewer in accordance with the provisions of this section, within
ninety (90) days after the date of official notice to do so.
      4.   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy
vault, or cesspool intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
      5.   Except as provided in section
8-1-8 of this article, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain a private
sewage disposal system intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   B.   Use Of Public Sewers Restricted:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, or
uncontaminated cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
      2.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural outlet, as has been approved by
the Superintendent.
      3.   The use of any sewer as a combined sewer shall be prohibited, unless
otherwise specifically authorized by the Village Board of Trustees.
      4.   Any and all wastewater generated by any industrial user in the
Village shall be subject to the provisions of article IV of this chapter. (Ord.
07-55, 11-15-2007)
   C.   Sanitary Sewer Service Outside Village Limits:
      1.   Any connection to a Village sanitary sewer main that may be made
outside the corporate limits of the Village shall be subject to the following:
         a.   All sewer services lines, plumbing and plumbing fixtures, waste,
venting, drain piping, and any other appurtenances and appliances needed for
such sewer service shall be in accordance with all provisions of the Village
Plumbing Code and the regulations set forth in this chapter.
         b.   Any person requesting such connection shall pay to the Village
such application fees, inspection fees, user charges, and other fees specified
by the Village for such connection.
      2.   The Village may require the owner of the property to be served with
such sewer connection to execute and deliver to the Village a written agreement
specifying any and all terms and conditions for providing such service,
including but not limited to the usage charge specified in subsection C3 of
this section, and any other charges or fees related to such service.
      3.   The usage rate to be charged to an owner of such property to be
served with a sewer connection shall be one and one-half (11/2) times the rate
charged to a resident of the Village as adjusted from time to time during the
time of service, provided further, any capital improvement fee charged to a
resident for sewer service shall be charged at one hundred percent (100%) of
said rate, unless otherwise specified in an agreement between the parties made
pursuant to subsection C2 of this section. (Ord. 17-11, 3-16-2017)
8-1-8: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Private Sewer Allowed: Where a public sanitary sewer is not available
under the provisions of subsection 8-1-7A3 of this article, the building sewer
shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the
provisions of this article.
   B.   Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the Village, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall
be paid to the Village Treasurer at the time the application is filed, and for
each subsequent inspection required pursuant to this article.
   C.   Approval: A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within twenty
four (24) hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   D.   Requirements: The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private
sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State of
Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code and with the State of
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for any
private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is less than required under the applicable building
ordinance. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   E.   Connection: At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a
property served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection
8-1-7A3 of this article, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this article, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected to
said sewer within one hundred eighty (180) days and the private sewage disposal
system shall be cleaned of sludge, filled with clean bank run gravel or dirt,
inspected, and a fifteen dollar ($15.00) inspection fee paid.
   F.   Maintenance: The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
village.
   G.   Additional Requirements: No statement contained in this article shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the health officer. (Ord. 07-55, 11-15-2007)
8-1-9: WATER AND SEWER RATES; BILLING, DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Water Rates, Bimonthly, And In Bulk:
      1.   Rates Established: Effective with the July 2024 billing:
 
For each 1,000 gallons                    $6.24 per thousand gallons
For water to be sold in bulk quantities,
for uses which will not result in         $21.78 per thousand gallons and
discharge to the village's wastewater     fractions thereof
conveyance and treatment system
 
      2.   Annual Adjustment Of Rates: Water rates shall be adjusted July 1
annually based on the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Consumer Price Index -
all urban consumers for the Chicago-Naperville-Elgin area. This adjustment
shall be automatic unless the village board takes official action to waive the
adjustment based on the consumer price index or determines the adjustment shall
be based on a different factor.
      3.   Meter Failure, Estimate Of Consumption: Whenever it is determined by
the village that any water meter has failed to properly register water passing
through same, the village may in its discretion estimate the amount of water
consumed by the affected user or users for purposes of establishing the amount
due from said user or users for water usage.
      4.   Bulk Sales, Determination by Village: For purposes of this section,
whether any water shall be sold in bulk quantity, and/or whether use of any
such water will not result in discharge into the village's wastewater
conveyance and treatment system, shall be determined in the sole discretion of
the village. With prior permission, water may be taken from a hydrant for a
private purpose, and for any such opening or use, a fire hydrant meter shall be
installed to record the quantity of water used or taken, and a fee shall be
charged for any such water used or taken.
      5.   Bulk Sales, Deposit: For purposes of sales of water in bulk quantity
under this section, the village may require a deposit from the purchaser, in
such sum as may be determined from time to time in the sole discretion of the
village, for the following purposes:
         a.   As security for use of a portable water meter provided to the
purchaser by the village; any loss of or damage to the water meter shall be
assessed against said deposit; and after assessment of such loss or damage
against said deposit, or upon return of said water meter in good condition, any
balance remaining on account shall be returned to the purchaser; and
         b.   As security for payment of charges for such bulk water sales; any
charges for such purchases shall then be assessed against said deposit, said
deposit shall be replenished from time to time as a condition of further sales,
when requested by the village, and any balance remaining on account after such
purchases have ceased shall be returned to the purchaser.
         c.   In any event, the purchaser shall be liable for all charges
actually incurred for water furnished, used, lost or taken; and for loss of or
damage to the water meter.
      6.   Bulk Water; Charges: The Village shall charge for water furnished,
used, lost or taken at bulk for each connection from or opening of a hydrant,
whether authorized or not, at the rate set forth in this Section
8-1-9A. For water used, lost or taken, and not measured by meter, billing shall
be as estimated by the Village in its sole discretion, provided, the minimum
billing shall be for ten thousand (10,000) gallons.
   B.   Sewer Rates:
      1.   Rates Established: The sewer user charge for the use of and for
service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the village shall consist of a
basic user charge for operation and maintenance plus replacement, a debt
service charge, a charge for billing and accounting, and a surcharge, if
applicable.
      2.   Basic Charges: The basic user charge shall consist of operation and
maintenance costs plus replacement costs, and shall be computed as follows:
         a.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories.
         b.   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories
by volume, suspended solids, BOD, and ammonia- nitrogen, if possible.
         c.   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS, pounds of BOD, and
pounds of ammonia-nitrogen to be treated.
         d.   Proportion the estimated costs to nonindustrial users by volume,
suspended solids, BOD, and ammonia-nitrogen.
      3.   Recorded Usage: The basic user charge shall be based on water usage
as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the
following normal concentrations:
         a.   A five (5) day, twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) of two hundred seventy five milligrams per liter (275 mg/
l).
         b.   A suspended solids (SS) content of two hundred eighty milligrams
per liter (280 mg/l).
         c.   An ammonia-nitrogen (NH3-N) content of thirty one milligrams per
liter (31 mg/l).
      4.   Debt Service Charge: The debt service charge shall be computed by
dividing the annual debt service charge of all outstanding bonds by the total
number of gallons billed to all sewer users in the previous year. This number
is multiplied by one thousand (1,000) to compute the debt service charge per
one thousand (1,000) gallons.
      5.   Sewer User Service Charge: Effective with the July 2024 billing:
         a.   The sewer user service charge to be paid bimonthly by all metered
sewer users shall be a minimum charge of one dollar ($1.00) for billing plus a
basic user rate of seven dollars thirty cents ($7.30) per one thousand (1,000)
gallons of metered water usage.
      Sewer user service charge rates shall be adjusted July 1 annually based
on the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Consumer Price Index - all urban
consumers for the Chicago-Naperville-Elgin area. This adjustment shall be
automatic unless the village board takes official action to waive the
adjustment based on the consumer price index or determines the adjustment shall
be based on a different factor.
      6.   Surcharge:
         a.   Exceeding Normal Concentrations: A surcharge will be levied to
all users whose waters exceed the normal concentrations for BOD (275 mg/l), SS
(280 mg/l), and ammonia-nitrogen (31 mg/l). The surcharge will be based on
water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters.
         b.   Rate Of Surcharge: The rates of surcharges shall be as follows:
 
BOD                 $0.219 per pound BOD
Suspended solids    0.120 per pound SS
Ammonia-nitrogen    1.52 per pound NH3-N as N
 
         c.   Computation Of Surcharge: The concentration of wastes used for
computing surcharges shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling
shall be performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the superintendent
and shall be binding as a basis for surcharges. (1985 Code)
   C.   Capital Improvements And Depreciation Charge:
      1.   Commencing with billing on May 1, 2024, there shall be and is
imposed a charge, in addition to the rates otherwise charged for water and/or
sewer service, for capital improvements and depreciation in the combined
waterworks and sewerage system of the Village, to be assessed on and added to
the regular bi-monthly billing statements rendered to users of water and sewer
services, in the following amount:
         a.   For users of water and sewer: twenty five dollars ($25.00) per
month.
         b.   For users of water alone: fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month.
         c.   For users of sewer alone: ten dollars ($10.00) per month.
   D.   Measurement Of Flow: The volume of flow used for computing basic user
charges and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the
lowest even increments of one hundred (100) gallons.
      1.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by
the superintendent for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained
from these other sources.
      2.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the superintendent if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered water consumption records.
      3.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled
without the consent of the superintendent.
   E.   Bills; Responsibility; Time Of Payment:
      1.   The owners of any property served by water and/or sewer services of
the village, together with the occupants of any such property and/or the users
of either or both of such services, shall be jointly and severally liable to
pay for such service or services to the subject property, and such service or
services are furnished to the property only on the condition that the property
owner, property occupant, and the user of such service(s) be and are jointly
and severally liable therefor.
      2.   All bills for water and/or sewer service shall be mailed to the
owner of the property to which such service is or services are provided, and it
shall be the responsibility of the owner of such property to make prompt
payment of the bill to the village. The obligation of the property owner to the
village under this section shall not be affected by any agreement said owner
may have with any occupant of the property or user of the service(s).
      3.   It shall be the duty of the village clerk to render bills for
service and for all rates and charges in connection therewith and to collect
all monies due thereon.
      4.   The amount of any fine due pursuant to subsection 8-3-10A of this
chapter, for a violation of the provisions of article III of this chapter
occurring at a property in the village, if it has not otherwise been paid as
provided therein, shall be added to the amount of any bill for water
consumption rendered in respect to said property pursuant to this section.
   F.   Delinquent Bills:
      1.   If the charges for water and sewage service, or either of them, are
not paid within thirty (30) days after the rendition and forwarding of a bill
for such utility service to the user thereof, the village shall, upon mailing
of a five (5) day written notice of such nonpayment to the user, be entitled to
discontinue said water or sewage service or both without further notice.
      2.   If water or sewerage service is discontinued, such service shall not
be again rendered to the subject property until a reconnection and service fee
of fifty dollars ($50.00) has been paid to the village, together with payment
of all delinquent charges and costs, and interest thereon in accordance with
this section, if any. In the event a service is discontinued three (3) or more
times in a twelve (12) month period, the reconnection and service fee shall
increase to one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      3.   The village is authorized to effect discontinuance of those services
where there is no shutoff or turnoff valve by excavating within the public
easement as necessary to effect termination of said service, and in the event
that said excavation is required to terminate said service, all charges and
costs for labor and material incurred by the village for said excavation and
termination, together with such charges and costs incurred for material and
labor required to reconnect such service, and all delinquent charges and costs,
and interest thereon, and any other charges authorized under this section,
shall be paid to the village prior to again rendering service to said property.
      4.   The village is authorized to collect an interest charge of ten
percent (10%) on the amount of any unpaid water or sewage service bill after
thirty (30) days, and may collect such interest charge in addition to all other
service charges, costs and fees provided if said village has informed the user
thereof on the monthly invoice of said interest charge.
      5.   Whenever a bill for water or sewer service remains unpaid for a
period of not less than sixty (60) days after date of mailing, the village
clerk may file with the county recorder a statement of lien claim. Every
statement of lien claim shall contain a legal description of the property in
question, the amount due for services rendered and any penalties, interest and
other charges due under this section, including all charges for services
subsequent to the date of last billing, and a notice that the village claims a
lien for said amount.
A copy of the statement of lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the
property, certified mail, return receipt requested. The failure of the village
clerk to record such claim for lien or to mail such notice, or the failure of
the owner to receive such notice, shall not affect the right to foreclose the
lien.
      6.   Property subject to a lien for unpaid water or sewer charges shall
be sold for nonpayment of the bill, and the proceeds of such sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosures shall be prosecuted in the
same manner and with the same effect as in the foreclosure of mortgages on real
estate.
The village attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings, in the name of the village, in any court having jurisdiction over
such matters, against any or all of the property for which a bill for water
and/or sewer service has remained unpaid for a period of not less than sixty
(60) days after date of mailing, or against the owner of such property, or
against the occupant of such property, and/or against the user of such service
(s), provided as to a suit against a property, notice has been provided as
required by law.
   G.   Revenues:
      1.   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the sewerage and water
fund.
      2.   All such revenues and monies shall be held by the village treasurer
separate and apart from his private funds and separate and apart from all other
funds of the village and all of said sums, without any deductions whatever,
shall be delivered to the village treasurer not more than fifteen (15) days
after receipt of the same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from time
to time be directed by the president and board of trustees.
      3.   The village treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the
sewerage system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of
such system as the same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the
account of the fund designated as the "sewerage and water fund of the village".
Said treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner
provided by statute of the "revised cities and villages act", effective January
1942.
   H.   Accounts: The village treasurer shall establish a proper system of
accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete
and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage
system, and at regular annual intervals he shall cause to be made an audit by
an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system to assure that each customer is paying a
proportionate share of the operation and maintenance costs.
      1.   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost. In this regard the financial
information to be shown in the audit report shall include the following:
         a.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year.
         b.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed.
         c.   Number of users connected to the system.
         d.   Number of nonmetered users.
         e.   A list of users discharging domestic wastes (industrial users)
and volume and strength of waste discharged.
      2.   The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to
reflect a change in debt service charge or change in operation and maintenance
costs including replacement costs.
   I.   Access To Records: The Illinois environmental protection agency or its
authorized representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers and
records of the village which are applicable to the village system of user
charges for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the grant. (1985
Code; amd. Ord. 02-21, 7-18-2002; Ord. 03-03, 4-3-2003; Ord. 06-03, 1-12-2006;
Ord. 09-14, 5-7-2009; Ord. 10-27, 12-2-2010; Ord. 15-12, 4-2-2015; Ord. 16-25,
10-6-2016; Ord. 20-24, 7-2-2020; Ord. 24-15, 4-18-2024; Ord. 24-16, 4-18-2024)
8-1-10: INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY:
   A.   Pay Share Of State Grant: Each industrial user of the village sewerage
works shall pay its share of the total amount of the state grant which has been
obtained by the village under state grant project no. C170964 for the financing
of the construction of wastewater treatment works allocable to the treatment of
the industrial wastewater from such user. Such user's share shall not include
an interest component.
   B.   Basis Of State Grant Portion: An industrial user's portion of the state
grant shall be based upon the volume and strength of industrial wastewater
discharged to the wastewater treatment works of the village. This shall be
determined based upon the following parameters:
      1.   Nonsegregated wastes (combined industrial and domestic wastes):
         a.   Volume: This value equals the total volume of water consumed per
year as determined by the consumption records of the past year minus twenty
five (25) gallons per employee per eight (8) hour shift (for domestic waste)
or, where water consumption does not reflect the actual quantity of wastewater
tributary to the treatment works from such user, then the total yearly flow as
recorded in the control manhole required by subsection J of this section, minus
twenty five (25) gallons of BOD per employee per eight (8) hour shift (for
domestic waste).
         b.   Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD): This value equals the total
pounds of BOD in the wastewater discharged per year as determined in subsection
J of this section, minus 0.043 pounds of BOD per employee per eight (8) hour
shift (for domestic waste).
         c.   Suspended Solids (SS): This value equals the total pounds of
suspended solids in the wastewater discharged per year from such user as
determined in subsection J of this section, minus 0.05 pounds of suspended
solids per employee per eight (8) hour shift (for domestic waste).
         d.   Ammonia Nitrogen (NH3-N): This value equals the total pounds of
ammonia nitrogen, expressed as N, discharged per year from such user as
determined in subsection J of this section, minus 0.04 pounds of ammonia
nitrogen per employee per eight (8) hour shift (for domestic waste).
      2.   Segregated Wastes:
         a.   Volume: This value equals the total volume of industrial
wastewater discharged per year, as recorded in the control manhole required in
subsection J of this section.
         b.   Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD): This value equals the total
pounds of BOD in the industrial wastewater discharged per year as determined in
subsection J of this section.
         c.   Suspended Solids (SS): This value equals the total pounds of
suspended solids in the industrial wastewater discharged per year from such
user as determined in subsection J of this section.
         d.   Ammonia Nitrogen (NH3-N): This value equals the total pounds of
ammonia nitrogen in the industrial wastewater discharged per year from such
user as determined in subsection J of this section.
   C.   Unit Costs: The unit cost shall be as follows:
      1.   Volume: Annual grant cost allocable to volume proportioned to design
flow to plant per year = $0.068 per one thousand (1,000) gallons.
      2.   BOD: Annual grant cost allocable to BOD proportioned to design BOD
plant loading per year = $0.041 per pound BOD.
      3.   SS: Annual grant cost allocable to SS proportioned to design SS
plant loading per year = $0.014 per pound SS.
      4.   NH3-N: Annual grant cost allocable to ammonia nitrogen proportioned
to design ammonia nitrogen plant loading per year = $0.360 per pound ammonia
nitrogen plant loading per year = $0.360 per pound ammonia nitrogen.
      5.   CD: Credit for domestic waste based on subsections C1 through C4 of
this section: one employee per eight (8) hour shift is equivalent to one-fourth
(1/4) of each standard per capita domestic discharger:
 
Volume = 100 gpd/4 = 25 gpd
BOD    = 0.17 lbs./day/4 = 0.043 lbs. BOD/day
SS     = 0.20 lbs./day/4 = 0.05 lbs. SS/day
NH3-N  = 0.017 lbs./day/4 = 0.004 lbs. NH3-N/day
         25 gpd x 244 x volume charge + 0.043 lbs. BOD/day x 244 x BOD charge +
CD     = 0.05 lbs. SS/day x 244 x SS charge + 0.004 lbs. NH3-N/day x 244 x NH3-
         N charge = cost per employee equivalent
 
   D.   Cost For Industrial User: The cost to be recovered from an industrial
user (CI) shall be determined as follows:
      1.   CI = C(Volume) + C(BOD) + C(SS) + C(NH-3-N) CD x N.
         a.   CI = industrial waste cost recovery amount (annual cost) to
industrial user.
         b.   C = unit cost for volume, BOD, SS or NH3-N as determined in
subsection 8-1-10C.
         c.   Volume = gallons of waste discharged to plant per year.
         d.   BOD = lbs. of BOD discharged to plant per year.
         e.   SS = lbs of suspended solids discharged to plant per year.
         f.   NH3-N = lbs. of ammonia-nitrogen discharged to plant per year.
         g.   N = O for segregated industrial discharges.
         h.   N = employee equivalent if industrial discharge is not segregated
from domestic wastewater.
   E.   The industrial cost recovery period shall be thirty (30) years starting
May 1, 1979, as stipulated by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      1.   For the purpose of industrial cost recovery, the year shall be
divided into quarterly periods, and all industrial users of the Village public
sewer shall pay the cost for industrial cost recovery, and such payments shall
be made quarterly prior to the thirtieth day of the month immediately following
the expiration of the quarterly period, for which service has been supplied.
      2.   The annual industrial cost recovery payment must be greater than the
minimum payment allowable under the Federal regulations.
      3.   The minimum industry payment shall be proportional to its flow or
reserve capacity in relation to the treatment plant flow capacity.
      4.   The minimum annual payment = $0.219 per 1,000 gallons flow capacity.
      5.   If the ICR payments established in subsection D of this Section are
less than the minimum ICR payment calculated in this Section, then the minimum
ICR payment must be charged.
   F.   Each year during the industrial cost recovery period, each industrial
user of the treatment works shall pay the cost recovery amount determined by
subsection D or E of this Section.
   G.   Where an industry is connected to a public sewer after the start-up of
the facilities constructed under a grant, such industry shall only pay its
portion of the grant for each quarter remaining in the recovery period.
      1.   Such industry will not be required to pay for those quarters of the
recovery period prior to connection to a public sewer.
      2.   The initial industrial cost recovery payment made by an industrial
user which is connected to a public sewer after the start-up of the treatment
plant constructed with a grant shall be made by the next scheduled due date as
defined in subsection E1 of this Section, and shall be equal to one-quarter (1/
4) of the amount as determined by subsections D or E2 to E5.
   H.   Changes Affecting Cost Recovery:
      1.   If there is a change in the volume of industrial waste discharged
into the sewerage works by an industrial user, as determined by the previous
year's records, the City shall adjust such user's industrial cost recovery
payment accordingly.
      2.   If there is an expansion or upgrading of the sewerage works
utilizing a grant, each existing industrial user's share shall be adjusted
accordingly.
   I.   Disposition Of Funds:
      1.   The Village shall retain fifty percent (50%) of the amounts
recovered from industrial users.
      2.   The remainder, together with any interest earned thereon, shall be
returned to the State of Illinois Anti-Pollution Fund on an annual basis.
      3.   Eighty percent (80%) of the retained amounts recovered from the
industrial users, together with interest earned thereon, shall be used solely
for the eligible costs of the expansion or reconstruction of sewerage works
associated with the project and necessary to meet the requirements of the
Federal Act and the State of Illinois.
         a.   The Village, prior to commitment of the retained amounts, shall
obtain written approval of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency for any
expansion or reconstruction.
         b.   The remainder of the retained amounts may be used for such
expenditures as the Village deems appropriate.
         c.   Pending use, the Village shall invest the retained amounts in: 1)
obligations of the U.S. Government; or 2) obligations guaranteed as to
principal and interest by the U.S. Government or any agency thereof; or 3)
shall deposit such amounts in accounts fully collateralized by obligations
fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the U.S. Government or any
agency thereof.
   J.   Monitoring:
      1.   The Village shall maintain a program of monitoring industrial user
discharges as the Village Board deems necessary, provided that any major
contributing industry shall be monitored no less than twelve (12) times
annually and any industrial user that has a population equivalent of fifty (50)
or more shall be monitored no less than once annually. All other industrial
users shall be monitored at such frequency as deemed necessary by the Village
Board.
      2.   Industrial waste dischargers, within ninety (90) days of the date of
notification by the Village, shall install and maintain at their expense
acceptable water meters or flow metering devices and samplers and manholes as
required to determine waste characteristic discharged to the public sewers.
      3.   Flow metering devices, installed in monitoring manholes on service
lines, will be required for measurement of the volume of waste discharged to
the sewers when volumes cannot otherwise be determined from metered water
consumption records, such determination to be made by the Village.
      4.   The industry shall install and maintain waste samplers and hire an
approved laboratory to complete waste testing when directed by the Village.
         a.   Waste sampling and testing shall be completed by the discharger
as often as may be deemed necessary by the Village and all certified test
results shall be forwarded to the Village.
         b.   The Village shall reserve the right to sample and test all
discharges at any time and bill the dischargers for all involved costs.
         c.   The Village shall establish discharge loads and industrial cost
recovery charges based on either or both tests and this shall be binding as a
basis for industrial cost recovery charges.
   K.   User's Portion:
      1.   An industrial user's portion of any State grant shall not include
any portion of the grant amount allocable to unused or unreserved capacity.
      2.   An industrial user's portion of any State grant shall include
allowance for the cost of any firm commitment to the Village for any increased
use by such user.
   L.   General Provisions:
      1.   It is hereby made the duty of the Village Clerk to maintain the
necessary records for the determination of the industrial cost recovery payment
and to render bills for services and for all rates and charges in connection
therewith and to collect all monies due thereon.
      2.   The Village Treasurer shall be responsible for the investment and
expenditure of all monies collected for industrial cost recovery in accordance
with subsection I of this Section.
      3.   Bills shall be rendered as established in subsection 8-1-9E of this
article, and any delinquencies in payment thereof shall be subject to the
provisions of subsection 8-1-9F of this article.
      4.   The Illinois environmental protection agency or its authorized
representatives shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records
of the village which are applicable to the village system of industrial cost
recovery for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts, and
transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the grant.
      5.   The charges established in the industrial cost recovery ordinance
shall become effective May 1, 1979, and on bills to be rendered August 1, 1979.
(1985 Code)
8-1-11: LIABILITY OF THE PROPERTY OWNER:
   A.   The property owner shall be responsible for any damage to any building,
tree, or other obstruction within any village easement on such property that
may result from work being performed in or on any such easement.
   B.   The village shall not be liable for any damage caused by a leak or
break in any service pipe.
   C.   No property owner shall replace or repair any water meter on his/her
property that may be or is in unacceptable condition until such time as the
water service line is properly repaired and is acceptable to the village.
   D.   If a leak should develop in the water service connection while work is
being performed on a water service extension line, it shall be the
responsibility of the person causing the leak to repair said item at his own
expense.
   E.   If a leak should develop on the domestic side of the curb stop/B-box,
including the flare gut, repair of the leak shall be made at the expense of the
property owner.
   F.   The property owner shall be responsible for any damage to a water
meter, such as damage to the meter housing, frost plate, register, remote
reader and wire. Damage shall include, but shall not be limited to, any harm to
the meter resulting from neglect, carelessness, wilful destruction, vandalism,
freezing, or any other circumstances which would cause the meter to
malfunction.
   G.   All repairs to any water meter shall be made by the village on a "parts
and labor" basis, and charged to the property owner according to rates
established from time to time by the superintendent of public works. (Ord. 06-
58, 11-2-2006)
8-1-12: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of Section
8-1-7 or
8-1-8 of this article shall first be served by the Village with written notice
stating the nature of the violation, and providing a reasonable time within
which to cure such violation. The offender shall, within the time period
specified in the notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Any person who shall continue a violation of which he had received
notice under Section
8-1-12A. beyond the time limit specified in the notice shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in an amount in accordance
with Section
12-1-3 of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day
any such violation shall occur or continue.
   C.   Unless otherwise provided herein, any person found to be in violation
of any other provision of this article shall be subject to a fine or penalty in
an amount in accordance with Section
12-1-3 of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day
any violation shall occur or continue.
   D.   In addition to any penalty assessed under this section, or under any
other penal law, any person found to be in violation of any provision of this
article shall be liable to the Village for any costs, expenses, loss or damage,
including reasonable attorney fees, incurred by the village, and specifically,
including a charge at the rates specified herein for water used, lost or taken
in bulk, as a result of such violation. (Ord. 20-24, 7-2-2020)
ARTICLE II
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-2-1: General Conditions
8-2-2: Cross-Connection Rules And Regulations; General Policy
8-2-3: Definitions
8-2-4: Water System
8-2-5: Cross-Connection Prohibited
8-2-6: Survey And Investigations
8-2-7: Where Protection Required
8-2-8: Type Of Protection Required
8-2-9: Backflow Prevention Devices
8-2-10: Inspection And Maintenance
8-2-11: Booster Pumps
8-2-12: Violations
8-2-1: GENERAL CONDITIONS:
   A.   Plumbing Code: All plumbing installed within the Village shall be
installed in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois
Administrative Code 890.
   B.   Backflow Prevention: If in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code
or in the judgment of the Village Engineer, or other designated inspector an
approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public
water supply system, the Village Clerk will give notice to the water customer
to install such an approved device immediately.
      1.   The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois
Plumbing Code, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and all applicable
local regulations.
      2.   The water customer shall have inspections and tests made of such
approved devices upon installation and as required by the Illinois Plumbing
Code, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and local regulations.
   C.   Prohibition Of Cross-Connection: No person, firm or corporation shall
establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit to be maintained
any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other
than the regular public water supply of the Village may enter the supply or
distribution system of said Municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the Village Engineer and the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency.
   D.   Right To Enter:
      1.   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have
the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection
to the public water supply or distribution system of the Village for the
purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections.
      2.   The Village Engineer or other designated inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the Village for the purpose
of verifying information submitted by the customer regarding the required
cross-connection control inspection.
      3.   On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the Village Engineer or other designated inspector any
information which he may request regarding the piping system or systems or
water use on such property. The refusal of such information when demanded
shall, within the discretion of the Village Engineer or other designated
inspector, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as
provided in this Article.
   E.   Right To Discontinue Service:
      1.   The Village Board is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue,
after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any
property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this Article
is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he may deem
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply
distribution mains.
      2.   Water service to such property shall not be restored until such
conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions
of this Article, and until a reconnection fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
is paid to the Village.
      3.   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Village President is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of
the public water supply system exists.
      4.   Such action shall be followed by written notification of the cause
of disconnection.
      5.   Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be effected
by the Village President to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or
pollution of the public water supply; provided, that in the reasonable opinion
of the Village Engineer or other designated inspector or the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or
potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply.
      6.   Neither the Village Engineer or other designated inspector nor their
agents or assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or
lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer's water supply
in accordance with the terms of this Article, whether or not said termination
was with or without notice.
   F.   Costs: The consumer responsible for back-siphoned or back- pressured
material or contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable
water supply system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly
installed, maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed,
must bear the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system.
   G.   Surveys And Investigations:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the Village Board to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist.
      2.   Such surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of public
record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years, or as often as the
Village Board shall deem necessary.
      3.   Records of such surveys shall be maintained and available for review
of a period of at least five (5) years. (Ord. 91-14, 11-21-1991)
8-2-2: CROSS-CONNECTION RULES AND REGULATIONS; GENERAL POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
      1.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the consumer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the Village stopcock in the service
connection into the public water supply system. (Ord. 00-4, 3-2-2000)
      2.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable
water system and nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or
systems containing substances of unknown or questionable safety.
      3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
      4.   To implement the general conditions set forth in Section
8-2-1 of this Article.
   B.   Application:
      1.   The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for protection
of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or back-
siphonage contaminants through the customer's water service connection.
      2.   If, in the judgment of the Village Engineer or other designated
inspector, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety
of the public water supply system, the Village Engineer or other designated
inspector shall give notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow
prevention device at each service connection to the premises.
      3.   The consumer shall immediately install such approved device or
devices at his own expense. Failure, refusal or inability on the part of the
consumer to install such device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds
for discontinuing water service to the premises until such device or devices
have been installed.
      4.   The consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance,
testing and repair as required in subsection 8-2-6D4 of this Article for a
period of at least five (5) years.
      5.   The Village Engineer or other designated inspector may require the
consumer to submit a cross-connection inspection report to the Village to
assist in determining whether or not service line protection will be required.
      6.   All cross-connection inspections shall be conducted by a cross-
connection control device inspector certified by the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency. (Ord. 91-14, 11-21-1991)
8-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
these regulations:
AGENCY: Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from a source
such as wells, lakes, or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These
waters may be polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water
source or system over which the water purveyor does not control.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
Plumbing Code and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of any
premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any and all pipes, tanks and other components of a
system for the distribution of the public water supply to the consumer which
are located on the consumer's premises, beginning at the Village stopcock in
the service connection. A building plumbing system is considered to be a
consumer's water system. A consumer's water system is a part of the public
water system.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
CROSS-CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shut- off valves located at each end of the
assembly and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check
valve.
FIXED PROPER AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify "health hazard" means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 77 Illinois Administrative Code 890.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois Administrative Code 604.
PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension
of plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes, including,
without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a private water
supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or at the curb to,
within and about any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work
or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping, from discharge or pumping units to
and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. Plumbing includes all
piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building drain and
sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or buildings
where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of connection
of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage disposal system
five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois Administrative
Code 604 for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollution, or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a consumer's potable water system. This includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Polluted or contaminated waters;
   B.   Process waters;
   C.   Used waters originating from the public water which may have
deteriorated in sanitary supply system quality;
   D.   Cooling waters;
   E.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams, or irrigation systems;
   F.   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
   G.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in
industrial or other processes, or firefighting purposes.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least fifteen (15) service connections or which
regularly serve at least twenty five (25) persons at least sixty (60) days per
year. A public water supply is either a "community water supply" or a
"noncommunity water supply".
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two check valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and
at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks
shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check
valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall
operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the
supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shut-off valves located
at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly
located test cocks.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances, at
the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping system
regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply system and
must include the location, type and most recent inspection and testing date of
all cross-connection control devices and methods located within that customer's
piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should not be an actual
plumbing inspection.
SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
USED WATER: Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a consumer's
water system after it has passed through the service connection and is no
longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
WATER PURVEYOR: The owner or official custodian of a public water system. (Ord.
91-14, 11-21-1991; amd. Ord. 00-4, 3-2-2000)
8-2-4: WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
   B.   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Village Engineer up to the point
where the consumer's water system begins.
   C.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   D.   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's water
system. (Ord. 91-14, 11-21-1991)
   E.   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the water system
beyond the Village stopcock described in subsection 8-1-4C1 of this Chapter
which are utilized to convey water from the public water supply distribution
system to points of use by the consumer. (Ord. 00-4, 3-2-2000)
8-2-5: CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED:
   A.   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to insure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   B.   1. No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the Agency.
      2.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply. (Ord. 91-14, 11-21-1991)
8-2-6: SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross-connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer's premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer's premises.
   B.   On request by the Village Engineer or other designated inspector, the
consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping system or systems or
water use within the customer's premises. The consumer's premises shall be open
at all reasonable times for the verification of information submitted by the
water consumer to the Village regarding cross-connection inspection results.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his premises to determine whether
there are actual or potential cross-connections to his water system through
which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or the public potable
water system. All cross-connection control or other plumbing inspections must
be conducted in accordance with Illinois Revised Statutes, 1987, chapter 111,
section 1103(1).
   D.   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow into
the public water system by ensuring that:
      1.   All cross-connections are removed; or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage.
      2.   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency as a
cross-connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions.
      4.   Testing and Records:
         a.   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         b.   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with Illinois
Revised Statutes, chapter 1111/2, paragraph 1004(e).
         c.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
         d.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            (1)   Date of each test;
            (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            (3)   Test results;
            (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
            (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
            (6)   Serving performed and dated completed. (Ord. 91-14, 11-21-
1991)
8-2-7: WHERE PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois
Administrative Code 890 and the Agency's regulations, 35 Illinois
Administrative Code 680. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device
shall be installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving
premises, where in the judgment of the Village Engineer or other designated
inspector, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply system exist.
   B.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Village Engineer or other
designated inspector and the source is approved by the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency.
      2.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual hazard, and premises having sources or systems containing process fluids
or wastes originating from the public water supply system which are no longer
under sanitary control.
      3.   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Village Engineer or other designated inspector and/or the cross-connection
control device inspector, are not correctable, or intricate plumbing
arrangements which make it impractical to determine whether or not cross-
connections exist.
      4.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey.
   C.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois
Administrative Code 890 and the Agency's regulations, 35 Illinois
Administrative Code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device
shall be installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving,
but not necessarily limited to, the following types of facilities unless the
Village Engineer or other designated inspector determines that no actual or
potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
      2.   Laboratories.
      3.   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
      4.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations.
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants.
      6.   Chemical plants.
      7.   Metal plating industries.
      8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      9.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      10.   Car washes.
      11.   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
      12.   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks. (Ord. 91-14, 11-21-
1991)
8-2-8: TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   The type of protection required under these regulations shall depend on
the degree of hazard which exists as follows:
      1.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a severe health hazard.
      2.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      3.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with a substance that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   B.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      1.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      2.   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      3.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source; or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source;
      4.   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   C.   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines. (Ord.
91-14, 11-21-1991)
8-2-9: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National
Standards Institute, or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be
in compliance with applicable industry specifications.
   B.   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. Manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be
available on-site. (Ord. 91-14, 11-21-1991)
8-2-10: INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule, or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer's instructions:
      1.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document that
a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of the
service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within twenty four (24) hours.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five (5) days.
      3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five (5)
days.
   B.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   C.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   D.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      1.   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      2.   Name and approval number of person performing the tests or visual
inspection;
      3.   Test results;
      4.   Repairs or servicing required;
      5.   Repairs and date completed; and
      6.   Servicing performed and date completed.
   E.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by subsection A of this Section.
   F.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Village Engineer or other designated inspector. (Ord. 91-14, 11-21-1991)
8-2-11: BOOSTER PUMPS:
   A.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low pressure
cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the Village Engineer
or other designated inspector, at least once a year, that the device is
operable. (Ord. 91-14, 11-21-1991)
8-2-12: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   The Village Board shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice to
the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any backflow
prevention device required by these regulations is not installed, tested,
maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the Village Engineer or other
designated inspector, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has
been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the
premises, or if a low pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not
installed and maintained in working order.
   B.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with
these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer or other
designated inspector, and the required reconnection fee is paid.
   C.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with
these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer or other
designated inspector.
   D.   Neither the Village, the Village President, the Village Engineer or
other designated inspector, nor its agents or assigns shall be liable to any
customers of the Village for injury, damages or lost revenues which may result
from termination of said customer's water supply in accordance with the terms
of this Article, whether or not said termination of the water supply was with
or without notice.
   E.   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
   F.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this Article shall be
served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall within the period of time stated in such notice permanently cease all
violation.
   G.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article may be fined
in an amount equal to not less that twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and, in addition to the fine
provided, shall become liable to the Village, for any expense, loss or damage
caused to the Village by reason of such violation, whether the same was caused
before or after notice. (Ord. 91-14, 11-21-1991)
ARTICLE III
WATER CONSERVATION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Application
8-3-3: Restricted Hours And Days For Specified Uses
8-3-4: Restrictions For Sod Laying And Lawn Seeding For New Lawns
8-3-5: Waste Of Water Prohibited
8-3-6: Exceptions
8-3-7: Bulk Water Rates
8-3-8: Hydrant Use Prohibited
8-3-9: Emergency Proclamation
8-3-10: Penalty
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this article shall, for the
purpose of this article, have the following meanings:
DRIP IRRIGATION SYSTEM: A soaking type hose that when in use does not result in
an actual dissipation of water.
DRIP LINE: Pertaining to a tree or shrub, the ground area immediately beneath
the branches of the tree or shrub.
LANDSCAPE/LANDSCAPING: Sod and seeded turf lawns, gardens, trees, shrubs, and
other living plants.
PERMITTED HOURS OF WATER USE: A time period between five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M., and between nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight, each day.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
organization, or entity of any kind.
VILLAGE: The village of Hampshire.
WATER: The water provided by and obtained by any person from the village water
supply and distribution system. (Ord. 02-21, 7-18-2002)
8-3-2: APPLICATION:
   A.   The provisions of this article shall apply to all persons using water,
and to all properties within the village or in unincorporated areas which are
connected to the village's water supply and distribution system, regardless of
whether any person using the water has a contract for service with the village.
   B.   The provisions of this article shall apply annually from May 1 through
September 30, subject to any modifications thereof, including application of
these or other regulations during this or any other time, by an emergency
proclamation issued pursuant to section
8-3-9 of this article. (Ord. 02-21, 7-18-2002)
8-3-3: RESTRICTED HOURS AND DAYS FOR SPECIFIED USES:
   A.   Water may be used for landscape watering or the filling of swimming
pools only as follows:
      1.   All properties with even numbered street numbers (i.e., numbers
ending in 0, 2, 4, 6, or 8) may use water for landscape watering, or for pool
filling, only on even numbered calendar dates during permitted hours of water
use.
      2.   All properties with odd numbered street numbers (i.e., numbers
ending in 1, 3, 5, 7, or 9) may use water for landscape watering, or for pool
filling, only on odd numbered calendar dates during permitted hours of water
use.
      3.   There shall be no restrictions as to hours or days when water may be
used for any of the following:
         a.   Landscape watering or sprinkling where such watering or
sprinkling is done by a person using a handheld watering device;
         b.   Filling swimming pools with a volume of fifty (50) gallons or
less;
         c.   The automatic watering of trees and shrubs by means of automatic
root feed or drip irrigation systems within the drip line of the tree or shrub;
         d.   Vehicle and equipment washing; or
         e.   Any other lawful use of water such as bathing, clothes washing,
and other normal household uses not otherwise specifically restricted by the
provisions of this article. (Ord. 02-21, 7-18-2002)
8-3-4: RESTRICTIONS FOR SOD LAYING AND LAWN SEEDING FOR NEW LAWNS:
Notwithstanding the provisions of section
8-3-3 of this article, the following special regulations shall apply:
   A.   Sod laying, lawn seeding, and the planting of other landscaping for the
establishment of a new lawn or new landscaping is prohibited from July 1
through August 31 each year; provided, however, that a person may lay sod, seed
a lawn, or plant other landscaping materials between July 1 and August 31 of
any year if and only if during said time he utilizes a source of water other
than village water supply for watering such sod, lawn or landscape materials,
and otherwise thereafter follows all applicable water conservation regulations
set forth in this article.
   B.   From May 1 through June 30, and from September 1 through September 30,
water may be used on new lawns (sod or seed), only as follows:
      1.   On the day new sod or seed has been placed on a property, a person
may use an automatic sprinkling device to apply water to the sod or seed for a
total period of time not to exceed eight (8) hours.
      2.   For the next nine (9) days thereafter, a person may apply water to
said sod or seed each day during permitted hours of water use.
      3.   Following the first ten (10) days after the sod or seed is placed,
the provisions of section
8-3-3 of this article shall apply.
      4.   During the times specified in this subsection B, a person may
utilize a source of water other than village water supply for watering such new
lawn (sod or seed) during any hours of any day. (Ord. 03-06, 6-5-2003)
   C.   Prior to the execution of any real estate contract for the sale of
newly constructed property, the builder or owner of such new construction
shall:
      1.   Inform prospective purchasers of the restrictions upon the
installation of new lawns set forth in this article;
      2.   Attach a copy of these regulations to the contract; and
      3.   Obtain the signature of the purchaser(s) on a statement that he, she
or they has (have) been informed of the new lawn installation restrictions set
forth in this article.
   D.   The applicant for a certificate of occupancy for any newly constructed
property shall submit as a part of his application, and as a condition of
issuance of such certificate, a copy of said signed statement. When an
application for certificate of occupancy is submitted prior to sale of the
property, and the future occupant is unknown, the applicant shall submit his
signed statement that he shall comply with the requirements of this section at
the time the real estate contract is executed. (Ord. 02-21, 7-18-2002)
8-3-5: WASTE OF WATER PROHIBITED:
No person shall allow a continuous stream of water to run off into any gutter,
ditch, drain, or street inlet while using water for restricted purposes during
the permitted hours of water use. (Ord. 02-21, 7-18-2002)
8-3-6: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this article shall not apply to any commercial or industrial
entity for which use of water is necessary to continue normal business
operations, or to maintain stock or inventory. Provided, however, this
exception shall not apply to any and all uses of water not essential to normal
business operations or maintenance of inventory or stock, and specifically
shall not apply to landscape watering or pool filling. (Ord. 02-21, 7-18-2002)
8-3-7: BULK WATER RATES:
Bulk water rates shall be increased to three (3) times the nonresident water
rate during the time described in subsection 8-3-2B of this article. (Ord. 02-
21, 7-18-2002)
8-3-8: HYDRANT USE PROHIBITED:
Hydrants connected to the village water supply and distribution system for the
purpose of providing water for firefighting purposes shall not be opened by any
person, other than authorized village or fire district personnel. (Ord. 02-21,
7-18-2002; amd. Ord. 20-24, 7-2-2020)
8-3-9: EMERGENCY PROCLAMATION:
   A.   Whenever the water supply of the village is diminished from any cause,
including, but not limited to, prolonged dry period, increased water demand,
equipment failure, or water quality concerns, to an amount which in the opinion
of the village engineer or director of public works is or is likely to become
dangerous to the health and safety of the public, the village president is
hereby authorized and empowered to issue an emergency proclamation specifying
different or additional regulations on the use of water.
   B.   Such regulations may provide for limitations on the usage of water,
limitations on days and hours of use of water for some or all purposes, and the
prohibition of specified uses of water.
   C.   Upon issuing such proclamation, the village president shall make the
contents thereof known to the public by posting a copy at the village hall, and
by news release to local newspapers and radio media, and may also endeavor to
notify the village residents and other persons in any other practical manner
that he or she shall devise. Further, the village president shall immediately
deliver notice of such proclamation, and the regulations that have been imposed
by such proclamation, to all members of the village board of trustees.
   D.   The emergency proclamation of the village president, and the
regulations imposed thereby, shall remain in full force and effect until any
one of the following shall first occur:
      1.   The village president determines that the emergency no longer exists
and that the emergency proclamation, and the regulations imposed thereby, shall
no longer continue in effect.
      2.   The village board of trustees modifies or repeals the emergency
proclamation, and the regulations imposed thereby, by means of an ordinance
enacted at any regular or special meeting of the village board of trustees.
      3.   The first regular meeting of the village board of trustees occurring
more than thirty (30) days after the date of the emergency proclamation of the
village president.
   E.   Any village employee or officer may, at the direction of the village
president, notify and warn any person of the effect of said emergency
proclamation and direct said person to comply with said watering or sprinkling
restrictions. If any said person, after having first been warned about said
restrictions and said proclamation, shall continue to violate said restrictions
of the emergency proclamation, they shall be deemed to be in violation of this
article. (Ord. 02-21, 7-18-2002)
8-3-10: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who or which violates, disobeys, neglects, fails to comply
with or resists enforcement of the provisions of this article other than
subsection 8-3-4A of this article, shall, within ten (10) days of receiving
notice of such violation, pay at the office of the village clerk, a fine, as
follows:
      1.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first offense;
      2.   One hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) for a second offense; and
      3.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each subsequent offense.
   B.   Any person who violates subsection 8-3-4A of this article shall, within
thirty (30) days of receiving a notice of such violation, shall be subject to
imposition of a fine up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense.
   C.   Each day a violation occurs or continues shall be considered a separate
violation for purposes of this article.
   D.   The amount of any fine due pursuant to subsection A of this section, if
not paid as provided therein, shall be added to the bill for water consumption
for the property at which the offense occurred. (Ord. 02-21, 7-18-2002)
ARTICLE IV
INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: General Provisions
8-4-2: General Requirements
8-4-3: Pretreatment Of Wastewater
8-4-4: Wastewater Discharge Permits
8-4-5: Reporting Requirements
8-4-6: Compliance Monitoring
8-4-7: Confidential Information
8-4-8: Users In Significant Noncompliance; Publication Of Notice
8-4-9: Administrative Enforcement Actions
8-4-10: Judicial Enforcement Actions
8-4-11: Affirmative Defenses To Discharge Violations
8-4-12: Miscellaneous Provisions
8-4-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose And Policy: This article sets forth uniform requirements for
users of the publicly owned treatment works for the village of Hampshire. The
objectives of this article are:
      1.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      2.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
      3.   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      4.   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly owned treatment works;
      5.   To enable the village to comply with its national pollutant
discharge elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and disposal
requirements, and any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned
treatment works is subject.
   B.   Administration: Except as otherwise provided herein, the superintendent
shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this article. Any
powers granted to or duties imposed upon the superintendent may be delegated by
the superintendent to a duly authorized village employee or professional
consultant retained by the village for said purpose.
   C.   Abbreviations: The following abbreviations, when used in this article,
shall have the designated meanings:
BMP   Best management practice
BMR   Baseline monitoring report
BOD   Biochemical oxygen demand
CFR   Code of federal regulations
CIU   Categorical industrial user
COD   Chemical oxygen demand
EPA   U.S. environmental protection agency
gpd   gallons per day
IU    Industrial user
mg/l  Milligrams per liter
NPDES National pollutant discharge elimination system
NSCIU Nonsignificant categorical industrial user
POTW  Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA  Resource conservation and recovery act
SIU   Significant industrial user
SNC   Significant noncompliance
TSS   Total suspended solids
USC   United States Code
 
   D.   Definitions: Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the
following terms and phrases, as used in this article, shall have the meanings
hereinafter designated:
    ACT OR THE ACT: The federal water pollution control act, also known as the
clean water act, as amended, 33 USC section 1251 et seq., as currently in
effect, and specifically including any amendments, modifications, or additions
thereto after the effective date of this article. Reference to any specific
section or provision of the act shall mean any such section or provision as
newly designated, renumbered, or otherwise included in any such amendment,
modification, or addition.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
   AUTHORIZED OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER: 1. For any private
entity:
a. The officer, member, general partner, manager or director in charge of a
principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or
decision making functions for the entity, including a manager of one or more
manufacturing, production, or operating facilities, provided the manager is
authorized to make management decisions that govern the operation of the
regulated facility including having the duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiating and directing other comprehensive measures, to
assure long term compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure
that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather complete
and accurate information for permit requirements; and where authority to sign
documents has been duly assigned or delegated to the manager.
      2.   For a proprietorship: The proprietor.
      3.   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: A
director or the highest official appointed or designated to oversee the
operation and performance of the activities of the governmental facility, or
his designee.
      4.   The individuals described in subsections 1 through 3 of this
definition may designate a duly authorized representative if the authorization
is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position
responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge
originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the
company, and the written authorization is submitted to the village.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES OR BMPs: Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in subsection 8-4-2A of this article. BMPs include
treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control plant
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND OR BOD: The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), usually expressed as a
concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   BYPASS: The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user's treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER: An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR CATEGORICAL STANDARD: Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with
sections 307(b) and (c) of the act (33 USC section 1317) that apply to a
specific category of users and that appear in 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N,
parts 405-471.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND OR COD: A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize
all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY: The village of Hampshire.
   DAILY MAXIMUM: The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT: The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OR EPA: The U.S. environmental protection
agency or, where appropriate, the regional water management division director,
the regional administrator, or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE: Any source of discharge that is not a "new source".
   GRAB SAMPLE: A sample that is taken from a waste stream without regard to
the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to exceed fifteen
(15) minutes.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any waste so defined by the act.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into the POTW from any
nondomestic source. Sometimes also referred to herein as "discharge".
   INDUSTRIAL USER: A source of indirect discharge. Sometimes also referred to
herein as a "user".
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT: The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE: A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the village's NPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any
more stringent state or local regulations: section 405 of the act; the solid
waste disposal act, including title II commonly referred to as the resource
conservation and recovery act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the solid waste
disposal act; the clean air act; the toxic substances control act; and the
marine protection, research, and sanctuaries act.
   LOCAL LIMIT: Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the village
upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and specific
discharge prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MEDICAL WASTE: Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE: The sum of all "daily discharges" measured during a
calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during that
month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT: The highest allowable average of "daily discharges"
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all "daily discharges" measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured
during that month.
   NEW SOURCE: 1. Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which
there is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commences after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards that will be
applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter promulgated in
accordance with that section, provided that:
a. The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed at a site
at which no other source is located; or
b. The building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces the
process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an
existing source; or
c. The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      2.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located which
results in a modification of an existing source, if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of subsection 1b or 1c of this definition but otherwise alters,
replaces, or adds to existing process or production equipment.
      3.   Construction of a new source as defined herein has commenced if the
owner or operator has:
a. Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on site construction
program:
(1) Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or equipment; or
(2) Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation, or
removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary for
the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or equipment;
or
b. Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities
or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable
time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or modified
without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering, and
design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
definition.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER: Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   POTW: A publicly owned treatment works or POTW is a treatment works, as
defined by section 212 of the act (33 USC section 1292), which is owned by a
municipality such as the village. This definition includes any devices or
systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation
of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature and any conveyances, which
convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
   PASS THROUGH: A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the village's NPDES permit, including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local governmental
entities.
   pH: A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT: Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
   PRETREATMENT: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS: Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS OR STANDARDS: Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS OR PROHIBITED DISCHARGES: Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in subsection 8-4-2A of this article.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE: Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE: Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations, etc.).
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU): Except as provided in subsections 3 and 4
of this definition, a significant industrial user is:
      1.   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
      2.   An industrial user that:
a. Discharges an average of twenty five thousand (25,000) gpd or more of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewater);
b. Contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%) or more
of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
c. Is designated as such by the village on the basis that it has a reasonable
potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any
pretreatment standard or requirement.
      3.   The village may determine that an industrial user subject to
categorical pretreatment standards is a nonsignificant categorical industrial
user rather than a significant industrial user on a finding that the industrial
user never discharges more than one hundred (100) gallons per day (gpd) of
total categorical wastewater (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewater, unless specifically included in the pretreatment standard)
and the following conditions are met:
a. The industrial user, prior to the village's finding, has consistently
complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements;
b. The industrial user annually submits the certified report(s) required by
this article, together with any additional information necessary to support the
report(s); and
c. The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated wastewater.
      4.   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in subsection 2 of
this definition has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the
village may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition
received from such user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)
(6), determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial
user.
   SLUG LOAD OR SLUG DISCHARGE: Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration,
which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in
subsection 8-4-2A of this article. A slug discharge is any discharge of a
nonroutine, episodic nature, including, but not limited to, an accidental spill
or a noncustomary batch discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause
interference or pass through, or in any other way violate the POTW's
regulations, local limits or permit conditions.
   STORM WATER: Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of public works for the village of
Hampshire. The person designated by the village to supervise the operation of
the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this
article. The term also means a duly authorized representative of the
superintendent.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS OR SUSPENDED SOLIDS: The total suspended matter that
floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other
liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
   USER: See definition of Industrial User.
   VILLAGE: The village of Hampshire, Kane County, Illinois.
   WASTEWATER: Liquid and water carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT OR TREATMENT PLANT: That portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste. (Ord. 07-51, 11-1-2007, eff. 11-1-2007)
8-4-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Prohibited Discharge Standards:
      1.   General Prohibitions:
         a.   These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether
or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other
national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
         b.   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW
any pollutant or wastewater which causes any pass through or interference.
      2.   Specific Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW, or shall process or store in a manner that would or
could allow for discharge to the POTW, the following pollutants, substances, or
wastewater:
         a.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C) using the test
methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
         b.   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 9.0, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
         c.   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference;
         d.   Pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the POTW;
         e.   Wastewater having a temperature greater than one hundred fifty
seven degrees Fahrenheit (157°F) (65°C), or which will inhibit biological
activity in the treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater which causes the temperature at the introduction into the treatment
plant to exceed one hundred four degrees Fahrenheit (104°F) (40°C);
         f.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
         g.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
         h.   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the superintendent in accordance with this article;
         i.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
         j.   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently impart color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the village's NPDES permit;
         k.   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the superintendent;
         l.   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
         m.   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
superintendent in a wastewater discharge permit;
         n.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail toxicity test;
         o.   Detergents, surface active agents, or other substances which that
might cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
         p.   Wastewater causing two (2) readings on an explosion hazard meter
at the point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW, of more
than five percent (5%) or any single reading over ten percent (10%) of the
lower explosive limit of the meter. Materials for which discharge is prohibited
under this subsection include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene,
naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes,
peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, polychlorinated biphenyls,
carbides, hydrides, standard solvents and sulfides.
   B.   Categorical Pretreatment Standards: Users must comply with the
categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N,
parts 405-471, as now stated and as hereinafter amended or modified.
      1.   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
superintendent may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with subsections B5 and B6 of this section.
      2.   When the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the superintendent
may convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of
pollutant discharged per day or effluent concentration for purposes of
calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual industrial users.
      3.   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e).
      4.   A CIU may obtain a net/gross adjustment to a categorical
pretreatment standard in accordance with the following:
         a.   Adjustments: Categorical pretreatment standards may be adjusted
to reflect the presence of pollutants in the industrial user's intake water in
accordance with this section. Any industrial user wishing to obtain credit for
intake pollutants must make application to the village. Upon request of the
industrial user, the applicable standard will be calculated on a "net" basis
(i.e., adjusted to reflect credit for pollutants in the intake water) if the
requirements of subsection B2 of this section are met.
         b.   Criteria:
            (1)   Either: a) the applicable categorical pretreatment standards
contained in 40 CFR subchapter N specifically provide that they shall be
applied on a net basis; or b) the industrial user demonstrates that the control
system it proposes or uses to meet applicable categorical pretreatment
standards would, if properly installed and operated, meet the standards in the
absence of pollutants in the intake waters.
            (2)   Credit for generic pollutants such as biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD), total suspended solids (TSS), and oil and grease should not be
granted unless the industrial user demonstrates that the constituents of the
generic measure in the user's effluent are substantially similar to the
constituents of the generic measure in the intake water or unless appropriate
additional limits are placed on process water pollutants either at the outfall
or elsewhere.
            (3)   Credit shall be granted only to the extent necessary to meet
the applicable categorical pretreatment standard(s), up to a maximum value
equal to the influent value. Additional monitoring may be necessary to
determine eligibility for credits and compliance with standard(s) adjusted
under this section.
            (4)   Credit shall be granted only if the user demonstrates that
the intake water is drawn from the same body of water as that into which the
POTW discharges. The village may waive this requirement if it finds that no
environmental degradation will result.
      5.   When a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of pollutant concentrations, an industrial user may request that the village
convert the limits to equivalent mass limits. The determination to convert
concentration limits to mass limits is within the discretion of the
superintendent. The village may establish equivalent mass limits only if the
industrial user meets all the conditions set forth in subsections B5a(1)
through B5a(5) of this section.
         a.   To be eligible for equivalent mass limits, the industrial user
must:
            (1)   Employ, or demonstrate that it will employ, water
conservation methods and technologies that substantially reduce water use
during the term of its individual wastewater discharge permit;
            (2)   Currently use control and treatment technologies adequate to
achieve compliance with the applicable categorical pretreatment standard, and
not have used dilution as a substitute for treatment;
            (3)   Provide sufficient information to establish the facility's
actual average daily flow rate for all waste streams, based on data from a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device, as well as the facility's long term
average production rate. Both the actual average daily flow rate and the long
term average production rate must be representative of current operating
conditions;
            (4)   Not have daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant
levels that vary so significantly that equivalent mass limits are not
appropriate to control the discharge; and
            (5)   Have consistently complied with all applicable categorical
pretreatment standards during the period prior to the industrial user's request
for equivalent mass limits.
         b.   An industrial user subject to equivalent mass limits must:
            (1)   Maintain and effectively operate control and treatment
technologies adequate to achieve compliance with the equivalent mass limits;
            (2)   Continue to record the facility's flow rates through the use
of a continuous effluent flow monitoring device;
            (3)   Continue to record the facility's production rates and notify
the superintendent whenever production rates are expected to vary by more than
twenty percent (20%) from its baseline production rates determined in
subsection B5a(3) of this section. Upon notification of a revised production
rate, the superintendent will reassess the equivalent mass limit and revise the
limit as necessary to reflect changed conditions at the facility; and
            (4)   Continue to employ the same or comparable water conservation
methods and technologies as those implemented pursuant to subsection B5a(1) of
this section so long as it discharges under an equivalent mass limit.
         c.   When developing equivalent mass limits, the superintendent:
            (1)   Will calculate the equivalent mass limit by multiplying the
actual average daily flow rate of the regulated process(es) of the industrial
user by the concentration based daily maximum and monthly average standard for
the applicable categorical pretreatment standard and the appropriate unit
conversion factor;
            (2)   Upon notification of a revised production rate, will reassess
the equivalent mass limit and recalculate the limit as necessary to reflect
changed conditions at the facility; and
            (3)   May retain the same equivalent mass limit in subsequent
individual wastewater discharge permit terms if the industrial user's actual
average daily flow rate was reduced solely as a result of the implementation of
water conservation methods and technologies, and the actual average daily flow
rates used in the original calculation of the equivalent mass limit were not
based on the use of dilution as a substitute for treatment. The industrial user
must also be in compliance with the provisions of this article regarding
bypass.
      6.   The superintendent may convert the mass limits of the categorical
pretreatment standards of 40 CFR parts 414, 419, and 455 to concentration
limits for purposes of calculating limitations applicable to individual
industrial users. The conversion is at the discretion of the superintendent.
      7.   Once included in its permit, the industrial user must comply with
the equivalent limitations developed in this section in lieu of the promulgated
categorical standards from which the equivalent limitations were derived.
      8.   Many categorical pretreatment standards specify one limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum monthly average, or four (4) day average, limitations.
Where such standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure
shall be used in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent
limitation.
      9.   Any industrial user operating under a permit incorporating
equivalent mass or concentration limits calculated from a production based
standard shall notify the superintendent within two (2) business days after the
user has a reasonable basis to know that the production level will
significantly change within the next calendar month. Any user not notifying the
superintendent of such anticipated change will be required to meet the mass or
concentration limits in its permit that were based on the original estimate of
the long term average production rate.
   C.   State Pretreatment Standards: Users must comply with Illinois
environmental protection agency pretreatment standards. (Ord. 07-51, 11-1-2007,
eff. 11-1-2007)
   D.   Local Pretreatment Standards; Local Limits:
      1.   The superintendent is authorized to establish local limits pursuant
to 40 CFR 403.5(c).
      2.   The following local pretreatment standards are established as local
limits on pollutants, in order to protect against pass- through and
interference in relation to the POTW. No user shall discharge wastewater
containing in excess of the following daily maximum limits: (Ord. 09-27, 9-3-
2009)
Ammonia                20.0 mg/l
Arsenic                0.1 mg/l
BOD5                   250.0 mg/l
Cadmium                0.3 mg/l
Chromium               1.0 mg/l
Copper                 1.0 mg/l
Cyanide                0.5 mg/l
Lead                   0.1 mg/l
Mercury                0.0005 mg/l
Nickel                 0.88 mg/l
Oil and/or grease      100.0 mg/l
Phosphorus             50 mg/l
Selenium               1.0 mg/l
Silver                 0.1 mg/l
Total phenols          0.5 mg/l
Total suspended solids 350.0 mg/l
Zinc                   2.0 mg/l
 
(Ord. 07-51, 11-1-2007, eff. 11-1-2007; amd. Ord. 09-27, 9-3-2009)
      3.   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is
discharged to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for
total metal unless indicated otherwise. The superintendent may impose mass
limitations in addition to the concentration based limitations above.
      4.   The superintendent may develop best management practices (BMPs), by
ordinance or in a wastewater discharge permit, to implement local limits and
the requirements of this section. (Ord. 09-27, 9-3-2009)
   E.   Village's Right Of Revision: The village reserves the right at any time
to establish, by ordinance or in an individual wastewater discharge permit,
more stringent standards or requirements on discharges to the POTW consistent
with the purpose of this article.
   F.   Dilution: No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in
any way attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless
expressly authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
superintendent may impose mass limitations on users who are using or attempting
to use dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or
in other cases when the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate. (Ord.
07-51, 11-1-2007, eff. 11-1-2007)
8-4-3: PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER:
   A.   Pretreatment Facilities: Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this article and shall achieve compliance with all
categorical pretreatment standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out
in section
8-4-2 of this article within the time limitations specified by the EPA, the
state, or the superintendent, whichever is more stringent.
      1.   Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated,
and maintained at the user's expense.
      2.   Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the superintendent for review, and shall be approved by
the superintendent before such facilities are constructed.
      3.   Review of such plans and operating procedures by the village or by
any other regulatory entity shall in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge
acceptable to the village under the provisions of this article.
   B.   Additional Pretreatment Measures:
      1.   Whenever deemed necessary, the superintendent may require any user
to restrict its discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste
streams, and may impose such other conditions as may be necessary to protect
the POTW and to determine and monitor the user's compliance with the
requirements of this article.
      2.   The superintendent may require any person discharging into the POTW
to install and maintain, on his property and at his expense, a suitable storage
and flow control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
      3.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the superintendent, any or all are necessary for the proper handling
of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease, oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the superintendent and shall
be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired by the user at its
expense.
      4.   A user with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
   C.   Accidental Discharge/Slug Discharge Control Plans:
      1.   The superintendent shall evaluate whether each user needs an
accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan or other action to control
slug discharges. The superintendent may require any user to develop, submit for
approval, and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be
necessary to control slug discharges. Alternatively, the superintendent may
develop such a plan for any user.
      2.   An accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan shall address,
at a minimum, the following:
         a.   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
         b.   Description of stored chemicals;
         c.   Procedures for immediately notifying the superintendent of any
accidental or slug discharge in compliance with the requirements of this
article; and
         d.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge, including, but not limited to, inspection and maintenance of storage
areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and unloading operations,
control of plant site runoff, worker training, building of containment
structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic pollutants,
including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency response.
   D.   Hauled Wastewater:
      1.   The superintendent may require a hauler of either septic tank waste,
or industrial waste, to obtain a wastewater discharge permit.
      2.   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the superintendent, and at such times as are established by the
superintendent. Such waste shall not violate this article or any other
requirements established by the village.
      3.   The superintendent may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial
waste. Otherwise, the discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all
other requirements of this article.
      4.   A hauler of industrial waste may discharge a load or loads only at
locations designated by the superintendent.
         a.   No load may be discharged without prior consent of the
superintendent.
         b.   The superintendent may collect samples of each hauled load to
ensure compliance with applicable standards.
         c.   The superintendent may require the industrial waste hauler at its
expense to provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
         d.   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste tracking form for
every load. The form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall also identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes. (Ord. 07-51,
11-1-2007, eff. 11-1-2007)
8-4-4: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS:
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the
superintendent, provided, any significant industrial user that has filed a
timely and complete application for such permit may continue to discharge as
specified in this section.
      2.   The superintendent may require any other user to obtain a wastewater
discharge permit as necessary to carry out the purposes of this article.
      3.   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this article and subjects the wastewater
discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in this article.
      4.   Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a user of
its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or
requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state, and local law.
   B.   Existing Connections: Any user who was discharging wastewater into the
POTW prior to the effective date of this article, and who is required by this
article to obtain a wastewater discharge permit, and who wishes to continue
such discharge in the future, shall promptly apply to the superintendent for a
wastewater discharge permit.
      1.   No such user shall cause or allow any discharge to the POTW after
ninety (90) days after the effective date of this article, except in accordance
with a wastewater discharge permit issued by the superintendent.
      2.   For good cause shown, a permit issued by the superintendent may
allow a reasonable period of time, in excess of the ninety (90) day period
after the effective date of this article, for the user to achieve full
compliance with the requirements of this article. For purposes of this section,
"good cause" shall include the need to acquire and install specialized
equipment for pretreatment of any such discharge.
   C.   New Connections: Any user who proposes to begin or recommence
discharging into the POTW, and who is required by this article to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit, must obtain such permit prior to beginning or
recommencing such discharge. An application for wastewater discharge permit
must be filed at least ninety (90) days prior to the date upon which any
discharge will begin or recommence.
   D.   Application: Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit
must submit a permit application. The application shall include the following
information:
      1.   Identifying Information:
         a.   The name and address of the facility, including the name(s) of
the owner(s).
         b.   The name and address of any and all licensed operators employed
by applicant.
         c.   Contact information, including telephone and e-mail (if
available).
         d.   Description of activities, facilities, and plant production
processes on the premises.
      2.   Environmental Permits: A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      3.   Description Of Operations:
         a.   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of
production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by such use, specifically including a schematic process diagram
which indicates the point(s) of discharge to the POTW from the processes;
         b.   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
         c.   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
         d.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         e.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location,
and elevation, and all points of discharge;
      4.   Discharges: Time and duration of discharges;
      5.   Location For Monitoring: The location for monitoring all wastes
covered by the permit;
      6.   Flow Measurement: Information showing the measured average daily and
maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in subsection 8-4-2B3 of this article (40 CFR 403.6(e)).
      7.   Measurement Of Pollutants:
         a.   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources.
         b.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process.
         c.   Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported.
         d.   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and shall
be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in this section. Where the
standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution prevention alternative,
the user shall submit documentation as required by the superintendent or the
applicable standards to determine compliance with the standard.
         e.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in this article.
      8.   Monitoring Waiver: Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a
renewal of an approved monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present nor
expected to be present in the discharge.
      9.   Other Information: Any other information as may be deemed necessary
by the superintendent to evaluate the permit application.
      10.   Certification Statement: A certification statement as set out in
subsection 8-4-5N of this article.
      11.   Incomplete Or Inaccurate Applications: Incomplete or inaccurate
applications will not be processed and will be returned to the user for
revision.
      12.   Signatories; Certifications:
         a.   All wastewater discharge permit applications and the required
certification statement must be signed by an authorized representative of the
user.
         b.   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has been assigned
responsibility for the overall operation of the facility or overall
responsibility for environmental matters for the company, a new written
authorization must be submitted to the superintendent prior to or together with
any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
   E.   Decision: The superintendent shall review and evaluate any application
for individual wastewater discharge permit; may require the submission of
additional information needed for a full and complete evaluation of the
application; and shall within sixty (60) days of receipt of a complete permit
application determine whether to issue the permit. The superintendent may deny
any application for a wastewater discharge permit.
   F.   Duration: A wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified
time period, not to exceed three (3) years from the effective date of the
permit. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period less than
three (3) years, at the discretion of the superintendent. Each individual
wastewater discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will
expire.
   G.   Contents: A wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions
as are deemed reasonably necessary by the superintendent to prevent pass
through or interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the
treatment plant's effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
      1.   Individual wastewater discharge permits must contain:
         a.   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit
issuance date, expiration date and effective date;
         b.   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is
nontransferable without prior notification to the village as required by this
article, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharge permit;
         c.   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards;
         d.   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency, and sample type based on federal, state, and local law;
         e.   A reference to the process for seeking a waiver from monitoring
for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge in
accordance with this article;
         f.   A description of any compliance schedule; provided, any such
schedule may not extend the time for compliance beyond that required by
applicable federal, state, or local law;
         g.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, or of any applicable
compliance schedule;
         h.   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
superintendent to be necessary;
         i.   Any grant of a monitoring waiver must be specifically included as
a condition in the user's permit.
      2.   Individual wastewater discharge permits may also contain any or all
of the following additional conditions:
         a.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         b.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
         c.   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or nonroutine
discharges;
         d.   A requirement that any industrial user shall control production
and/or all discharges to the extent necessary to maintain compliance with all
applicable regulations in the event of any reduction, loss, or failure of its
treatment facility until the facility is restored or an alternative method of
treatment is provided. This requirement applies in the situation where, among
other things, the primary source of power of the treatment facility is reduced,
lost or fails;
         e.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
         f.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
         g.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
         h.   A statement that compliance with the individual wastewater
discharge permit does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for
compliance with all applicable federal and state pretreatment standards,
including those which become effective during the term of the individual
wastewater discharge permit; and
         i.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the superintendent to
ensure compliance with this article and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
   H.   Modification: The superintendent may modify a wastewater discharge
permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      1.   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      2.   To address significant alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      3.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      4.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the village's POTW, village personnel, or the receiving waters;
      5.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual wastewater
discharge permit;
      6.   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      7.   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13;
      8.   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual
wastewater discharge permit; or
      9.   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator.
   I.   Transfer:
      1.   Individual wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new
owner or operator only if the permittee gives at least ninety (90) days'
advance notice to the superintendent and the superintendent approves the
individual wastewater discharge permit transfer.
      2.   The notice to the superintendent must include a written
certification by the new owner or operator which:
         a.   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility's operations and processes;
         b.   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur;
and
         c.   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
      3.   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the
individual wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility
transfer.
   J.   Revocation:
      1.   The superintendent may revoke a wastewater discharge permit for good
cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
         a.   Failure to notify the superintendent of significant changes to
the wastewater prior to a change in discharge;
         b.   Failure to provide prior notification to the superintendent of
changed conditions as required by this article;
         c.   Failure to notify the superintendent of any discharge of
hazardous waste(s) as required by this article;
         d.   Failure to notify the superintendent of any accidental,
nonroutine, episodic, batch, or slug discharge, or any slug load, as required
by this article;
         e.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in a wastewater discharge permit application;
         f.   Falsifying any self-monitoring report or certification statement;
         g.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
         h.   Refusing to allow the superintendent timely access to the
facility premises and records;
         i.   Failure to meet any applicable effluent limitation(s);
         j.   Failure to pay any fine;
         k.   Failure to pay any applicable sewer charge;
         l.   Failure to meet any pertinent compliance schedule;
         m.   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
         n.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
         o.   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms or conditions of a permit, or this article.
      2.   Individual wastewater discharge permits shall be revocable upon
cessation of operations or transfer of business ownership.
      3.   All individual wastewater discharge permits issued to a user are
void upon the issuance of a new individual wastewater discharge permit to that
user.
   K.   Reissuance: A user shall not less than ninety (90) days prior to the
expiration of the user's existing permit apply for reissuance of such permit.
(Ord. 07-51, 11-1-2007, eff. 11-1-2007)
8-4-5: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Wastewater Analysis: When requested by the superintendent, a user must
within any time period specified in such request and, if no time is specified
then within thirty (30) days after the date of the request, submit a report of
information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater. The
superintendent is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may
periodically require users to update the information called for on the form.
   B.   Baseline Monitoring Reports:
      1.   A baseline monitoring report shall be due from each existing
categorical industrial user currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge
to the POTW. The report shall be due within one hundred eighty (180) days after
either the effective date of an applicable categorical pretreatment standard,
or the final administrative decision on a category determination under 40 CFR
403.6(a)(4), whichever is later.
      2.   A baseline monitoring report shall be due from any new source, and
from any source that becomes a categorical industrial user subsequent to the
promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, not less than ninety (90)
days prior to commencement of discharge.
      3.   Each baseline monitoring report shall include the following
information:
         a.   Name And Address: The name and address of the facility, including
the name of the operator and owner.
         b.   Environmental Permits: A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility.
         c.   Production Data: A brief description of the nature, average rate
of production (including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and
rate of production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation
(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a schematic
process diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the
regulated processes.
         d.   Flow Measurement: Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in subsection 8-4-2B3 of this article (40 CFR 403.6(e)).
         e.   Measurement Of Pollutants:
            (1)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources.
            (2)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process.
            (3)   Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported.
            (4)   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and
shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in this article. Where
the standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution prevention
alternative, the user shall submit documentation as required by the
superintendent or the applicable standards to determine compliance with the
standard.
            (5)   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this subsection
B.
            (6)   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from
pretreatment facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the
regulated process if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed
with the regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment the user should measure the
flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined waste stream
formula in 40 CFR 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment
standards. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated
in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e), this adjusted limit along with supporting
data shall be submitted to the control authority.
            (7)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with
this article.
            (8)   The superintendent may allow the submission of a baseline
report which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides
information sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment
measures.
            (9)   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place
of sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
         f.   Compliance Certification: A statement, reviewed by the user's
authorized representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating
whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if
not, whether additional operational and maintenance measures and/or additional
pretreatment measures are reasonably required to meet the pretreatment
standards and requirements.
         g.   Compliance Schedule: If additional pretreatment and/or operations
and maintenance measures will be required to meet the pretreatment standards,
the shortest schedule by which the user will provide such additional
pretreatment and/or operations and maintenance measures shall be described.
Provided, the completion date in such schedule shall not be later than the
compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard; and any
compliance schedule pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out
in subsection C of this section.
         h.   Signature And Certification: All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified by an authorized representative of the user.
      4.   In addition, any new source shall report the method of pretreatment
it intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards, together with
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   C.   Compliance Schedule Progress Reports: The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by this article:
      1.   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
      2.   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine (9) months;
      3.   The user shall submit a progress report to the superintendent no
later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the schedule and the final
date of compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
      4.   In no event shall more than nine (9) months elapse between such
progress reports to the superintendent.
   D.   Reports On Compliance With Categorical Pretreatment Standard Deadline:
      1.   Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
user subject to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to
the superintendent a report containing the information described in subsections
B3a through B3h of this section.
      2.   For any user subject to categorical pretreatment standards expressed
in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other
measure of operation), the report shall include the user's actual production
during the appropriate sampling period.
      3.   All compliance reports must be signed and certified by an authorized
representative.
      4.   All sampling will be done in conformance with this article.
   E.   Periodic Compliance Reports:
      1.   All significant industrial users are required to submit periodic
compliance reports; in addition, any user which has been designated as a
nonsignificant categorical industrial user shall also be required to submit
periodic compliance reports in order to maintain such designation.
      2.   Except as otherwise specified below, all significant industrial
users must submit reports not less than twice per year (June and December)
indicating the nature, concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are
limited by pretreatment standards, and the measured or estimated average and
maximum daily flows for the reporting period; provided, the superintendent may
in his sole discretion require more frequent reporting from any permit holder.
      3.   In any case where the pretreatment standard requires compliance with
a best management practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the user
must submit documentation required by the superintendent or the pretreatment
standard necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
      4.   The village may authorize an industrial user subject to a
categorical pretreatment standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated
by a categorical pretreatment standard if the industrial user has demonstrated
through sampling and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither
present nor expected to be present in the discharge, or is present only at
background levels from intake water and without any increase in the pollutant
due to activities of the industrial user, subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The waiver may be authorized where a pollutant is determined to
be present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility
provided that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable
categorical standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater.
         b.   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the individual wastewater discharge permit, but in no case
longer than three (3) years. The user must submit a new request for the waiver
before the waiver can be granted for each subsequent individual wastewater
discharge permit.
         c.   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the
industrial user must provide data from at least one sampling of the facility's
process wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility that is
representative of all wastewater from all processes.
         d.   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed and certified
by an authorized representative.
         e.   Nondetectable sample results may be used only as a demonstration
that a pollutant is not present if the EPA approved method from 40 CFR part 136
with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant was used in the
analysis.
         f.   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the superintendent must be
included as a condition in the user's permit. The reasons supporting the waiver
and any information submitted by the user in its request for the waiver must be
maintained by the superintendent for three (3) years after expiration of the
waiver.
         g.   Upon approval of the monitoring waiver and revision of the user's
permit by the superintendent, the industrial user must certify on each report
that there has been no increase in the pollutant in its waste stream due to
activities of the industrial user.
         h.   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or is
expected to be present because of changes that occur in the user's operations,
the user must immediately notify the superintendent of such condition, and
thereafter comply with the monitoring requirements of this section, or any
other more frequent monitoring requirements imposed by the superintendent.
         i.   This provision does not supersede the certification processes and
requirements established in any applicable categorical pretreatment standards.
      5.   The village may reduce the requirement for periodic compliance
reports to a requirement to report no less frequently than once a year, unless
required more frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the state, where
the industrial user's total categorical wastewater flow does not exceed any of
the following:
         a.   POTW's value for 0.01 percent of the POTW's design dry weather
hydraulic capacity of the POTW, or five thousand (5,000) gallons per day,
whichever is smaller, as measured by a continuous effluent flow monitoring
device unless the industrial user discharges in batches;
         b.   POTW's value for 0.01 percent of the design dry weather organic
treatment capacity of the POTW; and
         c.   POTW's value for 0.01 percent of the maximum allowable headworks
loading for any pollutant regulated by the applicable categorical pretreatment
standard for which approved local limits were developed in accordance with
subsection 8-4-2D of this article.
      6.   Reduced reporting shall not apply to the following:
         a.   Any industrial user that has in the last two (2) years been in
significant noncompliance, as defined herein.
         b.   Any industrial user with daily flow rates, production levels, or
pollutant levels that vary so significantly that, in the sole discretion of the
superintendent, decreasing the reporting requirement for this industrial user
would result in data that are not representative of conditions occurring during
the reporting period.
      7.   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified by an
authorized representative.
      8.   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's
discharge, or the same may be rejected. Wastewater monitoring and flow
measurement facilities shall be properly operated, kept clean, and maintained
in good working order at all times; and, the failure of a user to keep its
monitoring facilities in good working order shall not be grounds for the user
to claim that sample results are not representative of its actual discharge.
      9.   If a user monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate
sampling location more frequently than required by the superintendent the
results of this monitoring shall be included in any required report.
   F.   Reports Of Changed Conditions: Not less than ninety (90) days prior to
any significant change to the user's operations or system which may alter the
nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater, each user shall in writing notify
the superintendent of the prospective change. The superintendent may after such
notice require the user to submit such information as he may in his sole
discretion deem necessary to evaluate the changed condition.
   G.   Reports Of Discharge Problems:
      1.   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, a slug discharge or a slug load that in each case
might cause any potential treatment problem for the POTW, the user shall
immediately by telephone and in writing notify the superintendent of the
discharge. The notification shall include the location, type of waste,
concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the user in
regard to the discharge.
      2.   Within five (5) days following such discharge, the user shall,
unless waived by the superintendent, submit a detailed written report
describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the
user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve
the user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be
incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other
damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of
any fines, penalties, or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this
article.
      3.   A notice, on a form to be supplied by the village, shall be
permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or other prominent place
advising employees who to call in the event of such a discharge; and
furthermore, each user shall ensure that all employees, agents or servants
whose activities could result in such a discharge are specifically advised of
the emergency notification procedure.
      4.   Significant industrial users are required to notify the
superintendent immediately of any changes at the user's facility which may
affect the potential for a slug discharge.
   H.   Notice Of Violation/Repeat Sampling And Reporting:
      1.   If any sampling performed by a user indicates any violation, the
user shall notify the superintendent, both by telephone within twenty four (24)
hours of becoming aware of the violation, and in writing as soon as
practicable.
      2.   The user shall also as directed by the superintendent thereafter
both repeat the sampling and submit the results of the repeated sampling to the
superintendent.
      3.   Repeated sampling by the user is not required if the village
otherwise performs sampling at the user's facility at least once a month; or if
the village performs sampling at the user's location between the time when the
initial sampling was conducted and the time when the user or the village
receives the results of analysis of this sampling, or if the village has
performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the industrial user.
   I.   Notification Of Discharge Of Hazardous Waste:
      1.   Any user who commences the discharge of any hazardous waste shall
notify the superintendent, the EPA regional waste management division director,
and state hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the
POTW of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste
under 40 CFR part 261, subject to the following requirements:
         a.   Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as
set forth in 40 CFR part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of
discharge (continuous, batch, or other).
         b.   If the user discharges more than one hundred (100) kilograms of
such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also shall contain
the following information to the extent such information is known and readily
available to the user:
            (1)   Identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes,
            (2)   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such
constituents in the waste stream discharged during that calendar month, and
            (3)   An estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste stream
expected to be discharged during the following twelve (12) months.
         c.   All notifications must take place no later than one hundred
eighty (180) days after the discharge commences.
         d.   Any notification under this subsection I need be submitted only
once for each hazardous waste discharged.
         e.   Notification of any changed condition must be filed as otherwise
required under this article.
         f.   The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under the self-monitoring requirements of this article.
      2.   A discharge of not more than fifteen (15) kilograms of any hazardous
waste or wastes shall be exempt from the requirements of this subsection,
during a calendar month in which the discharge occurs, unless the wastes are
acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). No
additional notification shall be required for any subsequent month(s) during
which the user discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste.
      3.   Discharge of more than fifteen (15) kilograms of nonacute hazardous
wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute hazardous wastes as
specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a onetime notification.
No additional notification shall be required for any subsequent month(s) during
which the user discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste.
      4.   In the case of any new regulations under section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste, or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, a user must notify the
superintendent, the EPA regional waste management waste division director, and
state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within
ninety (90) days of the effective date of such regulations.
      5.   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall also certify that it has put in place a program to reduce the volume and
toxicity of any such hazardous waste(s) generated by it or its operations to
the degree it has determined such program to be economically practical.
      6.   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance
not otherwise permitted to be discharged by either this article, a permit
issued hereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
   J.   Requirements For Sampling And Analyses: All pollutant analyses,
including sampling techniques, shall be performed in accordance with the
techniques prescribed in 40 CFR part 136 and amendments thereto, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard.
Provided, if 40 CFR part 136 does not describe or specify sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, or where the EPA
determines that the part 136 sampling and analytical techniques are
inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses shall be
performed by using validated analytical methods or any other applicable
sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested by the
superintendent or other parties approved by the EPA.
   K.   Sample Collection:
      1.   All samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be
based on data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed
during the period covered by the report, based on data that is representative
of conditions occurring during the reporting period.
      2.   Except as indicated in this subsection, or unless time proportional
composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the superintendent, a user
shall collect wastewater samples using twenty four (24) hour flow proportional
composite sampling techniques. Where time proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the village the samples must be representative
of the discharge.
      3.   Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified in 40
CFR part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples collected
during a twenty four (24) hour period may be composited prior to the analysis
as follows:
         a.   For cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the samples may be
composited in the laboratory or in the field;
         b.   For volatile organics and oil and grease, the samples may be
composited in the laboratory.
         c.   For other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures as
documented in approved EPA methodologies, other composite samples may be
authorized by the village, as appropriate.
      4.   Grab samples may be required by the superintendent to show
compliance with instantaneous limits.
      5.   Grab samples must be obtained for oil and grease, temperature, pH,
cyanide, total phenols, sulfides, and volatile organic compounds.
      6.   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and ninety
(90) day compliance reports, a minimum of four (4) grab samples must be used
for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic
compounds for any facilities for which historical sampling data do not exist.
For facilities for which historical sampling data are available, the
superintendent may authorize a lower minimum.
      7.   For reports required by subsection E of this section (40 CFR 403.12
(e) and 403.12(h)), the industrial user is required to collect the number of
grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements.
   L.   Date Of Receipt Of Reports: Written reports will be deemed to have been
submitted on the date postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage
prepaid, into a mail facility serviced by the United States postal service, the
date of receipt of the report at the superintendent's office in the village
shall govern.
   M.   Record Keeping:
      1.   Any user subject to the reporting requirements of this article shall
retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
article, any additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring
activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements, and
documentation associated with best management practices established under this
article.
      2.   Such records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time
of sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates
analyses were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques
or methods used; and the results of such analyses.
      3.   Such records shall remain available for a period of at least three
(3) years; provided, such period shall be automatically extended for the
duration of any litigation related to this article and concerning the user and/
or the village, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the superintendent.
   N.   Certification Statements: The following certification statement, signed
by an authorized representative of the user, is required to be signed and
included with any submission of any report due under this article, as well as
with any application submitted for a permit, as specified above:
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for any knowing violation.
(Ord. 07-51, 11-1-2007, eff. 11-1-2007)
8-4-6: COMPLIANCE MONITORING:
   A.   Right Of Entry: The superintendent shall have the right to enter the
premises of any user at any time to determine whether the user is complying
with all requirements of this article or order issued hereunder.
      1.   A user shall allow the superintendent immediate and ready access to
all parts of the user's premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
records examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
      2.   Where a user has security measures in place which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
inform its security guards that, upon presentation of identification, the
superintendent shall be permitted to enter user's premises without delay.
      3.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to immediate and ready access
to any pollution control, pretreatment, discharge or other pertinent facility
on user's premises shall be promptly removed by the user at the written or
verbal request of the superintendent and shall not thereafter be replaced. The
cost of removing any such obstruction to access shall be borne by the user.
      4.   Any delay in allowing the superintendent access to the user's
premises shall be a violation of this article.
   B.   Sampling And Monitoring Equipment:
      1.   The superintendent may require the user at its expense to install
sampling and/or monitoring equipment as reasonably necessary to accomplish the
purposes of this article. Any such sampling and/or monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition, and free
of any temporary or permanent obstruction to immediate and ready access to the
superintendent, by the user at its own expense.
      2.   The superintendent shall, in the alternative, also have the right in
his sole discretion to set up on the user's property such devices as are
necessary to conduct sampling and/or monitoring, or metering, of the user's
discharge.
      3.   All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be
calibrated on not less than a biannual frequency (every 2 years) to ensure
their accuracy.
   C.   Search Warrants: If the superintendent has been refused access to a
building, structure, or property, or any part thereof by any user, or his
immediate and ready access to any pollution control, pretreatment, discharge or
other pertinent facility on user's premises is temporarily or permanently
obstructed, and the superintendent is able to demonstrate in accordance with
law sufficient probable cause to believe that there may be occurring thereon or
therein a violation of this article, or that there is a need to inspect and/or
sample either as part of a routine inspection and sampling program of the
village designed to verify compliance with this article or any permit or order
issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare
of the community, or any other basis sufficient under law, then the
superintendent may petition a judge of the local circuit court for issuance of,
and obtain, an appropriate search warrant. (Ord. 07-51, 11-1-2007, eff. 11-1-
2007)
8-4-7: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
   A.   Information and data on any user, obtained from reports, surveys,
permits, and monitoring programs, or from the superintendent's inspection and
sampling activities, shall be available to the public without restriction,
unless the user specifically states, and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the superintendent, that the release of such information would
divulge information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets or trade processes under applicable state law.
      1.   Any such statement must be asserted at the time of submission of the
information or data.
      2.   When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that
such information should be held confidential, the portions of a report which
might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available
for inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately upon
request to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or any
pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the user
furnishing the report.
      3.   Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other effluent data,
as defined at 40 CFR 2.302, shall not be recognized as confidential information
and shall be available to the public without restriction.
      4.   In the event that the superintendent finds that any information
submitted by a user is not to be deemed confidential, the user may within ten
(10) days of such determination by the superintendent file a written appeal
with the village administrator.
         a.   The village administrator may decide the appeal without a
hearing, or may in the alternative, convene a hearing on the appeal, at which
the user and the superintendent may present oral argument on the matter. Such
hearing may be chaired by the village administrator, or his designee.
         b.   The village administrator shall render a decision on the appeal
as soon as practicable. (Ord. 07-51, 11-1-2007, eff. 11-1-2007)
8-4-8: USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE; PUBLICATION OF NOTICE:
   A.   The superintendent shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village, a list of the users which, at any time during the
previous twelve (12) months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements.
   B.   For purposes of this section, the term "significant noncompliance"
shall be applicable to all significant industrial users (or any other
industrial user that violates subsection B3, B4 or B8 of this section) and
shall mean:
      1.   "Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits", defined here as
those in which sixty six percent (66%) or more of all the measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period exceed (by
any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including
"instantaneous limits" as defined in subsection 8-4-1D of this article;
      2.   "Technical review criteria (TRC) violations", defined here as those
in which thirty three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken
for each pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period equals or exceeds
the product of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
"instantaneous limits", as defined by subsection 8-4-1D of this article
multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease,
and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      3.   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by subsection 8-4-1D of this article (daily maximum, long term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the superintendent determines
has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass
through, including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
public;
      4.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the superintendent's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      5.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a permit or an enforcement order for
starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final compliance;
      6.   Failure to provide within thirty (30) days after the due date, any
required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance
with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring
reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      7.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      8.   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of best
management practices, which the superintendent determines will adversely affect
the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program. (Ord. 07-51,
11-1-2007, eff. 11-1-2007)
8-4-9: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS:
   A.   Notice Of Violation:
      1.   When the superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this article, a permit or any order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
superintendent may serve upon that user a written notice of violation.
      2.   Within seven (7) days of the receipt of such notice, the user shall
submit to the superintendent a written explanation of the violation and a plan
for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof. Provided, submission of
such an explanation and/or plan in no way relieves the user of liability for
any violation occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
      3.   Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   B.   Consent Order: The superintendent may enter into a consent order, an
assurance of compliance agreement, or other similar document establishing an
agreement with any user responsible for noncompliance. Any such document shall
describe each specific action, and a time period for completion thereof, to be
taken by the user to correct the noncompliance. Such documents shall expressly
be made enforceable through the local circuit court.
   C.   Show Cause Hearing: The superintendent may order a user which has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a permit, or
any order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement,
to appear before the superintendent and show cause why an enforcement action
should not be taken.
      1.   Notice of the show cause order shall be served on the user
specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed enforcement action,
the reasons for such action, and a request that the user show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken.
      2.   Notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least fourteen (14) days prior to
the hearing.
      3.   Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of the
user.
      4.   A show cause hearing shall not be a prerequisite for, or a bar
against, the village taking any other action against the user.
   D.   Compliance Order: When the superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a permit, or
any order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement,
the superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge
directing that the user come into compliance within a specified time.
      1.   If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided,
any other enforcement action may be taken, and sewer service for the user may
be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related
appurtenances are or have been installed and properly operated by the user.
      2.   A compliance order also may contain other requirements to address
the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management
practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW.
      3.   A compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance
established for a pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance
order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any continuing
violation, and the legal consequences thereof.
      4.   Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a prerequisite for, or a
bar against, the village taking any other action against the user.
   E.   Cease And Desist Order: When the superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a permit, or
any order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement,
or that the user's past violations are likely to recur, the superintendent may
issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist all such
violations.
      1.   Any such cease and desist order may also order the user to:
         a.   Immediately comply with all pertinent requirements of law; and
         b.   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating discharge.
      2.   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a prerequisite
for, or a bar against, the village taking any other action against the user.
   F.   Emergency Suspensions:
      1.   The superintendent may immediately suspend a user's discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably appears to present, or may
cause, an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of any
person or persons.
      2.   The superintendent may also immediately, after notice and
opportunity to respond, suspend a user's discharge that threatens to interfere
with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an
endangerment to the environment.
      3.   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate such discharge.
      4.   In the event of a user's failure to immediately voluntarily comply
with the suspension order, the superintendent may take such steps as he deems
reasonably necessary, including immediate severance of the user's connection to
the village's sanitary sewer system, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals or the environment.
      5.   The superintendent may allow the user to recommence its discharge
when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the superintendent that
the period of endangerment has passed, unless formal termination proceedings
are initiated against the user pursuant to this section.
      6.   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment to any person or persons or the environment
shall submit a detailed written statement, describing the causes of the harmful
discharge and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence, to the
superintendent prior to the date of any show cause or termination hearing
commenced under this section.
      7.   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
   G.   Administrative Fines:
      1.   When the superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this article, a permit or any order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
superintendent may impose a fine upon such user in an amount not to exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Any such fine shall be assessed on a per
violation, per day basis. In the case of a violation of a monthly or other long
term average discharge limit, a fine shall be assessed for each day during the
period of violation.
      2.   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after thirty (30)
calendar days, be assessed an additional penalty of one and one- half percent
(1.5%) of the unpaid balance, and interest shall accrue thereafter at a rate of
one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month. A lien against the user's property
shall be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
      3.   A user desiring to dispute a fine shall within ten (10) days of
being notified of the fine file a written appeal of the amount of said fine
with the village administrator. Provided, the user shall also make payment in
full of the fine imposed either prior to or at the time of filing the written
appeal.
         a.   The village administrator may decide the appeal without a
hearing, or in the alternative, may convene a hearing on the request, at which
the user and the superintendent may present oral argument on the matter. Such
hearing may be chaired by the village administrator, or his designee.
         b.   The village administrator shall decide upon the appeal as soon as
practicable.
         c.   If after hearing, the village administrator agrees to reduce the
fine, any balance due from the payment made by the user shall be returned to
the user.
      4.   The costs incurred in preparing any administrative enforcement
action, such as notice and any orders, shall be added to any administrative
fine imposed under this section.
      5.   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, the village taking any other enforcement action against the
user.
   H.   Termination Of Discharge:
      1.   Any user who violates the following conditions is subject to
termination of its right to discharge:
         a.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
         b.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the
purpose of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
         c.   Violation of the pretreatment standards of this article.
         d.   Failure to notify the superintendent of significant changes to
the wastewater prior to any change in discharge;
         e.   Failure to provide prior notification to the superintendent of
changed conditions as required by this article;
         f.   Failure to notify the superintendent of any discharge of
hazardous waste(s) as required by this article.
         g.   Failure to notify the superintendent of any accidental,
nonroutine, episodic, batch, or slug discharge, or any slug load, as required
by this article.
         h.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
         i.   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
         j.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
         k.   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
         l.   Failure to pay any fine;
         m.   Failure to pay applicable sewer charges;
         n.   Failure to meet any compliance schedule;
         o.   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
         p.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
         q.   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms or conditions of a permit, or this article.
      2.   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under this section why
the proposed action should not be taken.
      3.   Exercise of this option by the village shall not be a prerequisite
for, or a bar against, the village taking any other action against the user.
   I.   Elimination Of Discharge: Any user notified of a disconnection of
wastewater treatment service under this section and/or revocation of its
wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the discharge.
      1.   In the event of a failure of the user to comply voluntarily with the
disconnection or revocation order, the village shall take such steps as deemed
necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or
minimize damage to the POTW and/or the wastewater conveyance system, or any
danger to individuals.
      2.   The superintendent shall not reinstate the wastewater discharge
permit and/or the wastewater treatment service unless and until the user has
submitted to him satisfactory proof of the elimination of the noncomplying
discharge. (Ord. 07-51, 11-1-2007, eff. 11-1-2007)
8-4-10: JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS:
   A.   Injunctive Relief:
      1.   Whenever the superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this article, any general or specific
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the village may petition the local circuit court for the issuance
of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which will restrain or
compel the specific performance of the permit, order, or other requirement
imposed by this article on the activities of the user.
      2.   The village may also seek such other remedy as may be appropriate
for legal and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to
conduct environmental remediation.
      3.   A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, the village taking any other action against a user.
   B.   Civil Penalties:
      1.   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this article, a permit or any order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment
standard or requirement shall be liable to the village for a maximum civil
penalty of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per violation, per day. In the
case of violation of a discharge limit expressed in monthly or other long term
average terms, a penalty shall accrue for each day during the period of the
violation.
      2.   The village may recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs, court
reporter costs, other expenses of litigation, and any other expenses incurred
in connection with, or associated with, enforcement activities under this
article, including sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual
damages incurred by the village.
      3.   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
      4.   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   C.   Criminal Prosecution:
      1.   A user who wilfully or negligently violates any provision of this
article, any permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment
standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per
violation, per day.
      2.   A user who wilfully or negligently introduces any substance into the
POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of up to seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) per violation, per day. This penalty shall be in
addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or property damage
available under state law.
      3.   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations, or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this article, or any permit or
order issued hereunder, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this article shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) per violation, per day.
      4.   In addition to any penalties provided herein, the village may
recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs, court reporter fees and other
expenses of prosecution by order of court in any proceeding brought hereunder,
or by appropriate suit at law against the person found to have violated this
article, or any order, rule, regulation or permit issued hereunder.
   D.   Remedies Nonexclusive: The remedies provided for in this article are
not exclusive. The village may take any, all, or any combination of these
actions against a user. (Ord. 07-51, 11-1-2007, eff. 11-1-2007)
8-4-11: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Upset:
      1.   For the purposes of this section, "upset" means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent
caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or
improper operation.
      2.   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards only as
provided herein.
      3.   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or
other relevant evidence that:
         a.   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         b.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         c.   The user has submitted the following information to the
superintendent within twenty four (24) hours of becoming aware of the upset (if
this information is first provided orally, a written submission must be
provided within 5 days thereafter):
            (1)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            (2)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            (3)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      4.   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      5.   A user shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on
any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      6.   A user shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
   B.   Pass-Through Or Interference; Certain Conditions:
      1.   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action
brought against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in
subsection 8-4-2A1 of this article, or the specific prohibitions in subsections
8-4-2A2c through A2g and A2i through A2p of this article, if it can prove that
it did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or
interference, and that either:
         a.   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user
was in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass
through or interference; or
         b.   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when
the village was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case
of interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   C.   Allowable Bypass:
      1.   Bypass Reasonably Necessary: A user may allow any bypass to occur
which will not result in any violation of any pretreatment standard or
requirement, or of any condition of a permit issued pursuant to this article,
but only if the bypass also is reasonably necessary for essential maintenance
of user's facilities in order to assure efficient and complying operation. Such
bypass is not subject to the notification provisions of this section.
      2.   Exceptions: Bypass is otherwise prohibited, and the superintendent
may take an enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         a.   The bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
         b.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. Provided, this
condition shall not be deemed satisfied if adequate backup equipment should
have been installed in the exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to
prevent a bypass which occurred during normal periods of equipment downtime or
preventive maintenance; and
         c.   The user submitted notices as required in this section.
         d.   For purposes of this section, "severe property damage" means
substantial physical damage to property, damage to the POTW which causes it to
become inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which
can reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property
damage does not mean economic loss to the user caused by delays in production.
      3.   Approval Of Anticipated Bypass: The superintendent may approve an
anticipated bypass, after considering its adverse effects, if the
superintendent determines that it will meet the three (3) conditions listed in
this subsection.
      4.   Notice Of Bypass:
         a.   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit notice of the bypass to the superintendent, at least ten (10) days
before the date of the bypass, if possible.
         b.   A user shall submit oral notice to the superintendent of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within
twenty four (24) hours of the time it becomes aware of the bypass; provided,
the user shall also file written notice of said bypass with the superintendent,
within five (5) days of the time the user becomes aware of the bypass.
         c.   The written notice shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass.
         d.   The superintendent may waive the written report on a case by case
basis if the oral report has been received within twenty four (24) hours. (Ord.
07-51, 11-1-2007, eff. 11-1-2007)
8-4-12: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Pretreatment Charges And Fees:
      1.   The village may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of
setting up and operating the village's pretreatment program, which may include:
         a.   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the
cost of processing such applications;
         b.   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures
including the cost of collection and analyzing a user's discharge, and
reviewing monitoring reports and certification statements submitted by users;
         c.   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge
procedures and construction;
         d.   Fees for filing appeals;
         e.   Fees to recover administrative and legal costs (not included in
subsection 8-4-10B of this article) associated with the enforcement activity
taken by the superintendent to address user noncompliance; and
         f.   Other fees as the village may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
      2.   These fees shall relate solely to the matters covered by this
article and shall be separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties charged
by the village.
   B.   Costs: Any and all costs for application, permitting, reporting,
compliance, compliance equipment or facilities, sampling, analysis,
remediation, and any other activities mandated by this article, required by the
superintendent, imposed under any permit, or required by law, shall be borne by
the user. (Ord. 07-51, 11-1-2007, eff. 11-1-2007)
ARTICLE V
RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF GROUNDWATER FOR POTABLE PURPOSES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Use Of Groundwater As A Potable Water Supply Prohibited
8-5-3: Penalties
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
GROUNDWATER: Underground water which occurs within the saturated zone and
geologic materials where the fluid pressure in the pore space is equal to or
greater than atmospheric pressure.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including, but
not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes, or
preparing foods. (Ord. 16-24, 10-6-2016)
8-5-2: USE OF GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED:
   A.   Within the following described area, the use, or attempt to use,
groundwater as a potable water supply, by the installation or drilling of a
well or wells, or by use of existing wells as potable water supply wells, or by
any other method, and expressly including installation and use of potable water
supply wells by the Village, including any points of withdrawal by the Village,
is hereby prohibited, except for such uses or methods as are or have been in
existence before October 6, 2016:
      1.   PIN: 01-02-100-005 (commonly known as Hampshire Oasis, or CITGO Gas
Station located at 19 N 479 US Highway 20, Hampshire, Illinois;
      2.   PIN: 01-02-300-001, commonly known as Travel Centers of America, HTP
TA Properties LLC (TA Elgin #044), located at 19N430 US Highway 20, Hampshire,
Illinois.
      3.   Illinois DOT US Highway 20, adjoining the site.
A map of the area governed by this subsection is on file with the Village
Clerk, labeled as Ordinance No. 16-24, § 8-5-2, Exhibit "A." Property index
numbers listed herein are those in effect as of the date of adoption of
Ordinance No. 16-24 and any future modifications thereof shall be deemed
included herein by reference.
   B.   Within the following described area, the use, or attempt to use,
groundwater as a potable water supply, by the installation or drilling of a
well or wells, or by any other method, expressly including installation and use
of potable water supply wells by the Village, including any points of
withdrawal by the Village, is hereby prohibited, except for such uses or
methods as are or have been in existence before June 17, 2021:
      1.   PIN: 01-22-301-005;
      2.   PIN: 01-22-301-017;
      3.   PIN: 01-22-302-001;
      4.   PIN: 01-22-302-004;
      5.   PIN: 01-22-302-002;
      6.   PIN: 01-22-302-003;
      7.   PIN: 01-22-302-009;
      8.   PIN: 01-22-302-005;
      9.   PIN: 01-22-302-006;
      10.   PIN: 01-22-302-010;
      11.   Portions of Keyes Avenue, Hampshire, Illinois adjoining said
parcels;
      12.   Portions of State Street, Hampshire, Illinois adjoining said
parcels.
A map of the area governed by this subsection is on file with the Village
Clerk, labeled as Ordinance No. 21-31, § 8-5-2, Exhibit "B." Property index
numbers listed herein are those in effect as of the date of Ordinance No. 21-
31, and any future modifications thereof shall be deemed included herein by
reference. (Ord. 16-24, 10-6-2016; amd. Ord. 21-31, 8-19-2021)
8-5-3: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be subject to a fine
of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day
that a violation occurs or continues shall be considered a new violation. (Ord.
16-24, 10-6-2016)
CHAPTER 9
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Streets And Sidewalks   I
Driveways   II
Excavations   III
Street Names And House Numbers   IV
Trees And Shrubs   V
Violation, Penalty   VI
Fees   VII
Garbage Collection Fees   VIII
Construction Standards, Technical
Standards, And Standards For Occupancy
In Village Rights Of Way   IX
Stream Preservation   X
ARTICLE I
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Administrative Provisions
9-1-2: Pavements, Construction
9-1-3: Unlawful Use, Injury
9-1-4: Maintenance Requirements
9-1-1: ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Superintendent Of Public Works To Supervise: All public streets,
alleys, sidewalks and other public ways shall be under the supervision of the
Superintendent of Public Works. He shall have the supervision over all work
thereon, the cleaning thereof, and shall be charged with the enforcement of all
ordinance provisions relating to such public places (except traffic ordinances)
and is hereby authorized to enforce such provisions.
   B.   Datum Plane And Bench Mark: There is hereby established and fixed a
base or datum plane in and for the Village for determining, measuring and
fixing elevations and grades in the Village, which base or datum plane shall be
known under the style and name of "Hampshire Village Datum"; said datum is
located at the northwest corner of Route 72 and State Street and is marked by a
bronze disc, Illinois 46A.
   C.   Permits Required: It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement
on any public street, alley or other public way or to repair the same, without
first having secured a permit therefor. Application for such permits shall be
made to the Superintendent of Public Works and shall be filed with the Village
Clerk, and shall state the location of the intended pavement or repair, the
extent thereof, and the person actually doing the construction work; and shall
be accompanied by payment of the fee established in Section
9-7-1 of this Chapter.
   D.   Performance Bond Required: Each applicant for a permit to construct,
repair or lay any pavement on any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
shall file a performance bond, with surety conditioned to indemnify the Village
for any loss or damage resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of
doing the same, or subject to such other conditions as may be required by the
Superintendent or the Board of Trustees. Said bond shall be in an amount not
less than one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the estimate of the
Superintendent of Public Works of the cost of the installation of the
improvements, to be approved by the Board of Trustees. (1985 Code)
9-1-2: PAVEMENTS, CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Specifications For Construction: All street and sidewalk pavements
shall be in conformity with specifications of the Village.
      1.   Streets shall conform in all respects to the standards established
in Section
7-3-4, Street Improvements; and Chapter 7, Article 4, Design Standards, of this
Code; and to such other specifications and design standards from time to time
required by the Village Board.
      2.   Sidewalks shall conform in all respects to the standards established
in Section
7-3-6, Sidewalks, of this Village Code.
   B.   Whenever any sidewalk or portion thereof is replaced, construction
shall be in accordance with the provisions of this Article, and the abutting
property owner or owners shall be liable upon completion of said work to pay
the cost of replacement in addition to any and all permit fees required under
the provisions of this Article; provided, however, as follows:
      1.   Prior to commencing any replacement of sidewalk or any portion
thereof, the abutting property owner or owners may present to the Village
Manager no fewer than two (2) bids for the cost of the work.
      2.   The Village Manager shall consider the bids presented and accept or
reject them.
      3.   Upon acceptance of a bid by the Village Manager and approval of the
completed work by the Superintendent of Public Works, the Village shall
reimburse said abutting property owner for one-half (1/2) of the bid cost.
   C.   Sidewalk Ramps For The Handicapped: Where sidewalks are constructed or
replaced at street intersections and other crosswalks adjacent to barrier,
mountable or roll type curb, a sidewalk ramp for the handicapped shall be
provided in accordance with the requirements outlined in the "Highway
Standards", state of Illinois, department of public works and buildings,
division of highways, bureau of design.
   D.   Barricades Required:
      1.   Any person laying or repairing any pavement on any street, sidewalk
or other public place, or making any excavation in any such place, shall
maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person or vehicle by
reason of the work. Such barricades shall be protected by appropriate lights
during periods of darkness.
      2.   Defects in pavements shall be barricaded to prevent injury. Any
person properly maintaining an opening or excavation in such place shall guard
such opening or excavation while the same remains open, by proper barricades
and lights.
      3.   It shall be unlawful to remove, disturb or interfere with a
barricade or light lawfully placed to protect new pavements, excavations or
openings in any public street, alley or sidewalk. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 22-21,
9-15-2022; Ord. 22-26, 10-6-2022)
9-1-3: UNLAWFUL USE, INJURY:
   A.   Injury To Pavements:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to walk or drive any vehicle or animal upon, or
injure any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by
a warning sign or barricade, or knowingly to injure any soft or newly laid
pavement.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage any existing sidewalk,
street or alley pavement.
   B.   Obstructions Or Defects: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause,
create or maintain any obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other
public way, except as may be specifically authorized by the Board of Trustees.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, outdoor seating is allowed in accordance with
the provisions of Article XIII, Chapter 4 of this code.
   C.   Private Use For Display Or Advertising: It shall be unlawful for any
person to use a street, sidewalk or other public place as space for the display
or sale of goods or merchandise, or for peddling merchandise; or to write or
mark any signs or advertisements on such place, except as may be specifically
authorized by the board of trustees.
   D.   Deposits, Deliveries On Sidewalks:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, or to permit to be
deposited, upon any public way in the village, including any public street or
sidewalk, any rubbish, trash, or debris; any mud, dirt, cement, concrete,
gravel, stones, plant matter, including grass clippings; any snow from snow
removal operations; or any material which may cause damage to said sidewalk or
street, which may be a hazard to persons, animals, property or vehicular
traffic, or which may impede the flow of storm water.
      2.   Any person who shall clear or remove any snow, ice, or other
precipitation from any sidewalk, private drive, driveway or parking lot, on or
adjacent to his or her property shall clear or remove same to a location on his
or her property only, and shall not clear or remove same to any public
property. Provided, in the event that there shall be an excessive amount of
snow, ice, or other precipitation, such that there is no location on the
person's property to place the snow, ice, or other precipitation cleared or
removed from any sidewalk, private drive, driveway, or parking lot, then such
snow, ice, or other precipitation may be placed on the public parkway along an
existing curb line or shoulder within the right of way, but in no event shall
any such snow, ice, or other precipitation be placed on the paved area of the
right of way. Provided, further, as to any property located in the central
business district in the village, the provisions of this subsection D2
regarding sidewalks shall not apply, but the provisions as to private drives,
driveways, or parking lots shall apply and be in full force and effect.
      3.   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited for not more than
one-half (1/2) hour on a sidewalk, if preparatory to delivery; provided, the
usable width of the sidewalk shall not thereby be reduced to less than four
feet (4').
      4.   In no event shall any person at any time cover or block access to
any fire hydrant in the village.
      5.   In the event any person depositing any material on a sidewalk in
violation of this section fails or refuses to immediately remove it, the
superintendent of public works may cause the material to be removed. The cost
incurred by the village for such removal and all expenses incurred in
connection therewith shall be assessed against the property and/or the person
who deposited the material. Assessment of such costs against the person who
violated the provisions of this section shall not be construed as a waiver of
the right of the village to file a complaint against such person and/or to
request that a fine be imposed upon conviction, in accordance with section
9-6-1 of this chapter.
   E.   Openings Or Stairways: It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain
any opening or stairway in any public street, sidewalk or alley without a
permit from the village. All such lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded
by a suitable, strong cover or a railing, to be approved by the superintendent
of public works. No such opening shall be maintained unless there is deposited
or filed with the village clerk a certificate of insurance issued by a
liability insurance company authorized to do business in the state naming the
village as an additional insured and providing liability insurance for personal
injury and property damage with limit coverage of not less than three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per person and one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence for personal injuries and one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) for property damage.
   F.   Poles And Wires: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any poles or
wires on or over any public street, alley or other public way without having
first secured permission from the village.
   G.   Burning Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any
leaves, paper or rubbish or any other substance upon any of the paved areas of
public streets, sidewalks or alleys within the village.
   H.   Drains: It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street
or alley.
   I.   Fences 1 : (Rep. by Ord. 09-21, 6-18-2009)
   J.   View At Corners: It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain, or
permit to remain, any fence or other structure, or any bushes or other plants
or weeds, on a corner lot within fifty feet (50') of the street line which
obstructs the view at a height of more than three feet (3') above the level of
the adjacent street pavement.
   K.   Gas Pumps: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any gasoline or
other pump or tank in any public right of way, street, alley or sidewalk
anywhere in the village. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 07-25, 5-3-2007; Ord. 09-21, 6-
18-2009; Ord. 23-06, 5-4-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-9-10 of this code.
9-1-4: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All public street, alley and sidewalk pavements shall be kept in good
repair. All sidewalks shall be kept in good repair at all times by the abutting
property owners at their own expense.
   B.   Whenever any sidewalk or portion thereof is replaced, construction
shall be in accordance with the provisions of this Article, and the abutting
property owner or owners shall be liable upon completion of said work to pay
the cost of replacement in addition to any and all permit fees required under
the provisions of this Article; provided, however, as follows:
      1.   Prior to commencing any replacement of sidewalk or any portion
thereof, the abutting property owner or owners may present to the Village
Manager no fewer than two (2) bids for the cost of the work.
      2.   The Village Manager shall consider the bids presented and accept or
reject them.
      3.   Upon acceptance of a bid by the Village Manager and approval of the
completed work by the Superintendent of Public Works, the Village shall
reimburse said abutting property owner for one-half (½) of the bid cost.
   C.   The owner of the private property abutting any public right of way
shall be responsible for maintaining the parkway of any public right of way
adjoining his or her property. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 02-54, 12-19-2002; Ord.
22-21, 9-15-2022)
ARTICLE II
DRIVEWAYS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Permit Requirements, Fees, Bond
9-2-2: Construction Regulations For Pavements
9-2-3: Driveway Maintenance
9-2-4: Violations, Procedure
9-2-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS, FEES, BOND:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to alter, construct, build or
establish any driveway over, across or upon any public sidewalk right of way or
parkway without first having secured a permit therefor from the superintendent
of public works.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a permit for a driveway over,
across or upon any public sidewalk or parkway shall be made to the
superintendent of public works and filed with the village clerk; and shall
contain the name and address of the person making the application, and the name
and address of the owner of the property to be served by such driveway,
together with the proposed location, plans and specifications for such
driveway; and shall be accompanied by payment of the fee established in section
9-7-1 of this chapter.
   C.   Bond Required: Each applicant for a permit for a driveway shall file a
bond in accordance with the provisions of subsection 9-1-1D of this chapter.
(1985 Code)
9-2-2: CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS FOR PAVEMENTS:
   A.   Grades, Curbs:
      1.   Unless otherwise expressly authorized by the terms of the written
permit hereinbefore required, every driveway built across or upon any sidewalk
space or parkway shall conform to the existing sidewalk grade.
      2.   Where it shall be necessary in the construction of any driveway to
break the existing curb for the driveway opening, the curb and gutter shall be
completely removed and a new driveway section constructed.
      3.   Each driveway shall be constructed and maintained so as to permit
free and unobstructed passage on, over or across the same and in such manner as
not to interfere with the proper drainage and safe grading of streets.
      4.   Gradual approaches to the regular sidewalk grade shall be made from
the grade of the driveway. The slope of any driveway and the approaches thereto
shall not exceed one inch to the foot (1" to 1') in any direction. Each such
driveway shall be so constructed and maintained that its surface at the point
of crossing any sidewalk shall be flush with adjoining sections of such
sidewalk. (1985 Code)
   B.   Commercial Driveways: That portion of every driveway hereafter
constructed or reconstructed which extends from the street across any public
parkway and sidewalk or sidewalk space to the owner's lot line and which is
used to serve any property other than that used exclusively for residential
purposes shall consist of a monolithic course of portland cement concrete
pavement not less than eight inches (8") thick constructed on a minimum of six
inches (6") of an aggregate base course on a prepared subgrade, and the
construction and installation of such driveway shall otherwise comply with the
provisions of this code. All construction shall be done under the supervision
and subject to the approval of the superintendent of public works.
   C.   Residential Driveways:
      1.   That portion of every driveway hereafter constructed or
reconstructed which extends from the street across any public parkway and
sidewalk space to the owner's lot line and is used exclusively to serve
residential property shall consist of:
         a.   Monolithic concrete pavement constructed as follows: six inches
(6") of portland cement concrete pavement constructed on a minimum of four
inches (4") of an aggregate base course on a prepared subgrade;
      2.   All construction shall be done under the supervision and subject to
the approval of the superintendent of public works. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
9-2-3: DRIVEWAY MAINTENANCE:
Every person maintaining any driveway in the village shall keep the same in
good condition or repair, free and clear of stone, gravel and other
obstructions of any kind. (Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001)
9-2-4: VIOLATIONS, PROCEDURE:
   A.   Work Without A Permit:
      1.   If work is done or is in progress without a permit, the
superintendent of public works shall issue a violation notice. This violation
notice shall be in writing to the owner and contractor.
      2.   Violation notice shall contain the name of the owner of the property
and his address, the address of the building in violation, the name of the
contractor and his address, a date for submission of plans and applications for
permits. Such compliance date shall be no sooner than twenty four (24) hours
from violation notice issuance, nor more than forty eight (48) hours from
violation notice issuance.
      3.   When an owner or contractor in violation makes application for a
permit, he shall agree to conform to all codes of the village, and to follow
the plan review and building permit application procedures.
      4.   If the compliance date is not met, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall hold a hearing to permit the violator an opportunity to show
cause why a complaint should not be filed. The superintendent of public works,
the village attorney and the violator or his representative shall be present.
      5.   If cause is not demonstrated, the village attorney shall prepare and
file a complaint.
   B.   Failure to Meet Compliance Date on Correction Notice:
      1.   Reinspection of the property in violation will be made.
      2.   The superintendent of public works shall contact the owner or
contractor in violation when there has been partial compliance or no
compliance. Such contact shall be verbal and also in writing within forty eight
(48) hours of the reinspection.
   C.   The notification shall recommend to the owner or contractor a course of
action based upon the reinspection and facts supplied by the owner or
contractor. Such notification shall establish a reasonable compliance date and
provide for reinspection on said compliance date.
   D.   The reinspection process shall be repeated as long as satisfactory
progress and good faith are demonstrated by the violator.
   E.   If compliance cannot be secured, Planning and Zoning Commission shall
hold a hearing to permit the violator an opportunity to show cause why a
complaint should not be filed. The superintendent of public works, the village
attorney and the violator or his representative shall be present.
   F.   If cause is not demonstrated, the village attorney shall prepare and
file the complaint. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 01-25, 8-16-2001; Ord. 21-15, 4-15-
2021)
ARTICLE III
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Permit Requirements, Bond
9-3-2: Time Limitations, Extension
9-3-3: Work Procedures, Barricades
9-3-4: Inspections
9-3-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS, BOND:
   A.   Permit Required: No street, alley, treebank, public ground or place
shall be disturbed or opened, nor shall any material excavation be made therein
unless a permit to do so is first obtained from the Superintendent of Public
Works.
   B.   Application For Permit: Any person desiring to do any digging of any
kind in any of the streets of the Village, or digging of any kind in any of the
treebanks located in the Village, whether such digging be in connection with
the laying, maintaining or repairing of any sewer or water mains, or for any
other purpose, shall first file application for permit, containing the name and
address of the person making the application, and the name and address of the
owner of the property on which the excavation is to be made, together with the
location and specifications for such excavation; and shall be accompanied by
payment of the fee established in Section
9-7-1 of this Chapter.
   C.   Each applicant for an excavation permit shall file a bond in accordance
with the provisions of subsection 9-1-1D of this Chapter; and, in addition to
the conditions herein required, said bond shall be conditioned upon the
satisfactory restoration of any public street, sidewalk, alley or right of way
wherever the same shall have been disturbed in and about the doing of such
excavation.
   D.   If the Superintendent of Public Works finds that the work permit
application for any digging, as provided for in this Article, is in proper
form, and if he finds that the bond, as provided for in this Article, is in
proper form, he shall approve the bond and issue the work permit for the
digging to be done. (1985 Code)
9-3-2: TIME LIMITATIONS, EXTENSION:
All digging shall be completed within ninety (90) days after the granting of
the work permit, as provided for herein, although, for good reason shown, the
Superintendent of Public Works may grant an extension or extensions of the
three (3) months' period for the completion of such work. Such extension or
extensions shall in no event, however, exceed a total of three (3) in number.
(1985 Code)
9-3-3: WORK PROCEDURES, BARRICADES:
Any person making any excavation or tunnel shall do so according to the terms
and conditions of the application and permit authorizing the work to be done.
Sufficient and proper barricades and lights shall be maintained to protect
persons, vehicles and animals from injury by or because of the excavation being
made. (1985 Code)
9-3-4: INSPECTIONS:
The Building Inspector is hereby authorized, if he deems it advisable in
connection with the issuance of the work permit, to provide that no actual
connections shall be made or backfilling done until the work has been inspected
by the Village, in which case the person to whom or to which such work permit
has been granted shall pay to the Village the actual cost, if any, of any such
inspection. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE IV
STREET NAMES AND HOUSE NUMBERS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Street Names
9-4-2: House Numbers
9-4-1: STREET NAMES:
Except as otherwise provided, the names of the streets and avenues within the
Village shall be and remain as the same existed on the effective date hereof.
(1985 Code)
9-4-2: HOUSE NUMBERS:
All persons owning or occupying any building used or to be used for residence
or business purposes, situated and fronting on lands contiguous to any street
or avenue within the Village, are hereby required to cause the correct number
of such building to be placed thereon. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE V
TREES AND SHRUBS 1
SECTION:
9-5-1: Planting
9-5-2: Removal
9-5-3: Injury
9-5-4: Advertisements Or Notices
9-5-5: Dangerous Trees
9-5-6: Wires
9-5-7: Gas Pipes
9-5-8: Excavation
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 5, article XVI of this code.
9-5-1: PLANTING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public place,
street or parkway, without having first secured a permit therefor. Applications
for such permits shall be made to the village clerk and shall be referred to
the village engineer.
      1.   The village engineer, as the case may be, shall approve the type and
location of all trees and shrubs to be permitted under this section.
         a.   Trees to be planted shall be of the types specified in subsection
5-16-2D5 of this code.
         b.   Trees specified in subsection 5-16-3E5 of this code shall be
prohibited.
      2.   The maintenance and replacement obligations described in subsection
5-16-3G of this code shall apply to any trees permitted under this section.
(Ord. 02-54, 12-19-2002)
9-5-2: REMOVAL:
It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub in any public
place without first having obtained a permit therefor. Permits shall be
obtained in accordance with the requirements of chapter 5, "Building
Regulations", article XVI, "Trees And General Landscaping Requirements", of
this code. (Ord. 02-54, 12-19-2002)
9-5-3: INJURY:
It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub in any such public place.
(1985 Code)
9-5-4: ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES:
It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree or
shrub in any such public place. (1985 Code)
9-5-5: DANGEROUS TREES:
Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public place in
the village in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel
shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the premises on
which such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease. Any tree or
limb of a tree which may become likely to fall on or across any public place or
way shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which such tree grows or
stands.
The superintendent of public works may trim such tree or shrub or remove any
such tree or branch thereof so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or
passage shall be done away with. (1985 Code)
9-5-6: WIRES:
It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or rope to any tree or shrub on any
public street, parkway or other public place without the permission of the
board of trustees.
Any person or company which maintains poles or wires in the streets, alleys or
other public places shall, in the absence of provision in the franchise
covering the subject, keep such wires and poles free from and away from any
trees and shrubs in such places as far as possible, and shall keep all such
trees and shrubs near such wires and poles properly trimmed, so that no injury
shall be done either to the poles or wires or to the shrubs and trees by their
contact. (1985 Code)
9-5-7: GAS PIPES:
Any person maintaining any gas pipe in the village shall keep such pipes free
from leaks so that no injury shall be done thereby to any trees or shrubs.
(1985 Code)
9-5-8: EXCAVATION:
In making excavations in streets or other public places, proper care shall be
taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree, flower or shrub, whenever
possible. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE VI
VIOLATION, PENALTY
SECTION:
9-6-1: Penalty
9-6-1: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter, including by commencing
work without a permit, shall be subject to a fine or penalty of not less than
seventy five dollars ($75.00), and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense, and a like fine or penalty for each day said
violation continues. (Ord. 07-25, 5-3-2007)
ARTICLE VII
FEES
SECTION:
9-7-1: Fees For Permits
9-7-1: FEES FOR PERMITS:
The applicant for a permit under this chapter shall pay at the time his
application is submitted, and the village clerk shall collect a fee as follows:
   A.   Sidewalk: 1% of the cost of construction or repair, but in no case less
than $15.00.
   B.   Driveway:
      1.   Residential property, 16 feet or less in width, with no change in
the grade of the sidewalk - $10.00.
      2.   All others - $15.00. (1985 Code)
   C.   Excavations: The fee shall be such amount as is established from time
to time by the village board; and the board may also require from each
applicant a security deposit to ensure full and satisfactory restoration of the
premises. (Ord. 03-02, 4-3-2003)
ARTICLE VIII
GARBAGE COLLECTION FEES
SECTION:
9-8-1: Fee
9-8-2: When Due
9-8-3: Delinquency
9-8-4: Suit
9-8-5: Bills, Responsibility For Payment
9-8-1: FEE:
Garbage collection charges assessed to residents shall be established from time
to time by the board of trustees.
Any monies collected in excess of the costs incurred for contract payments for
the service and administrative costs shall be retained in the fund and shall be
used to defray the cost of future garbage collection services. (Ord. 16-20, 7-
21-2016)
9-8-2: WHEN DUE:
All said charges shall be paid by the thirtieth day of the month following the
date of billing, and shall incur a ten percent (10%) interest charge after
thirty (30) days of nonpayment from date of said billing. (1985 Code)
9-8-3: DELINQUENCY:
All such garbage collection fees shall be due and owing by the occupant or
resident occupying, and by the person or persons owning, said single-family
unit or unit in said multiple- family dwelling during the period of such
service to the village of Hampshire, in accordance with the terms herein
stated. In the event the charges for garbage collection are not paid within
thirty (30) days after the rendition of that bill, then such garbage collection
fees shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent. If the
delinquency in the payment of the garbage collection fees continues for a
period of more than thirty (30) days, the garbage service may be discontinued.
(1985 Code)
9-8-4: SUIT:
The village may from time to time sue said occupant or resident, or owner, or
both of them, in a civil action to recover the money due for services rendered,
plus a reasonable attorney fee to be fixed by the court. (1985 Code)
9-8-5: BILLS, RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT:
   A.   The owner of the premises served by refuse collection services, and the
occupant thereof and/or user of the services, shall be jointly and severally
liable to pay for the services on said premises. Such services are rendered to
the premises upon the condition that the owner shall be liable for the charge
therefor, and that the occupant of the premises and/or user of the services
shall also be jointly and severally liable with the landlord to pay for the
service.
   B.   Billings shall be sent to the owner of the premises, but may, at the
request of and as a convenience to the owner, be sent to any other customer;
provided, the refuse collection bill shall not be sent to a party other than
the one who receives the water/sewer bill. Any agreement between an owner and
an occupant of the premises and/or user of the services regarding payment of
the refuse collection bills shall not be binding on the village. (Ord. 94-1, 1-
20-1994)
ARTICLE IX
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS, TECHNICAL STANDARDS, AND STANDARDS FOR OCCUPANCY IN
VILLAGE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
SECTION:
9-9-1: General Provisions
9-9-2: Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements
9-9-3: Definitions
9-9-4: Annual Registration Required
9-9-5: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
9-9-6: Action On Permit Applications
9-9-7: Effect Of Permit
9-9-8: Revised Permit Drawings
9-9-9: Insurance
9-9-10: Indemnification
9-9-11: Security
9-9-12: Permit Suspension And Revocation
9-9-13: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
9-9-14: General Construction Standards
9-9-15: Traffic Control Standards
9-9-16: Location Of Facilities
9-9-17: Construction Methods And Materials For Facilities Not Personal Wireless
Telecommunications Facilities
9-9-18: Standards And Regulations For Personal Wireless Telecommunications
Facilities
9-9-19: Vegetation Control
9-9-20: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
9-9-21: Cleanup And Restoration
9-9-22: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
9-9-23: Variances
9-9-24: Right To Appeal
9-9-25: Penalties And Sanctions
9-9-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the Village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the Village
rights-of-way and the Village as a whole.
   B.   Facilities Subject To This Article: This article applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public
rights-of-way within the jurisdiction of the Village. A facility lawfully
established prior to the effective date of this article may continue to be
maintained, repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and
located, except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise,
license or similar agreement.
   C.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The Village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this article and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this article when the Village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
Village to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the health, safety
and welfare of the public. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-2: FRANCHISES, LICENSES, OR SIMILAR AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Privilege: The Village, in its discretion and as limited by law, may
require utilities to enter into a franchise, license or similar agreement for
the privilege of locating their facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under,
across, or within the Village rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by
law to enter into such an agreement may request that the Village enter into
such an agreement. In any such agreement, the Village may provide for terms and
conditions that are or would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
article, and in such event, the terms and provisions of the agreement shall
govern and control.
   B.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the Village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this article and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the Village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   C.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
article, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this article to the
maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws or regulations.
(Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Illinois Administrative Code section 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
ALTERNATIVE ANTENNA STRUCTURE: An existing pole or other structure within the
public right-of-way that can be used to support an antenna and is not a utility
pole or a Village-owned infrastructure.
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio signals used in the provision of any type of wireless communications
services.
APPLICANT: Any person or entity submitting an application for a permit to
install personal wireless telecommunication facilities or structures to support
the facilities within a public right-of- way.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non- recoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The Municipal Code of the Village of Hampshire.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one (1) or more right- of-way lines
of a right-of-way.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The Village Director of Public Works or his or her
designee.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY: For the purposes of this article, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM (DAS): A type of personal wireless telecommunication
facility consisting of a network of spatially separated antenna nodes connected
to a common source via a transport medium that provides wireless service within
a geographic area. Generally, serves multiple carriers.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right- of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
ENGINEER: The Village Engineer or his or her designee.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including track and
rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults, boxes, equipment
enclosures cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates, covers, pipes, cables,
and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above, along, upon, under, across,
or within rights-of-way under this article. For purposes of this article, the
term "facility" shall not include any facility owned or operated by the
Village.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access on highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
Village Engineer to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health
or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological)
agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or
toxic under any Federal or State law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. The term "highway" includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois Highway Code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
IDOT: Illinois Department of Transportation.
ILCC: Illinois Commerce Commission.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
LANDSCAPE SCREENING: The installation at grade of plantings, shrubbery, bushes
or other foliage intended to screen the base of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility from public view.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
MONOPOLE: A structure composed of a single spire, pole or tower designed and
used to support antennas or related equipment and that is not a utility pole,
an alternative antenna structure, or a Village-owned infrastructure.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of- way.
PWTF STRUCTURE: Any tower, monopole, utility pole, alternative antenna
structure, or Village-owned infrastructure, as defined herein, on which a
personal wireless telecommunication facility may be located.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right-of-way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to this
article.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION ANTENNA: An antenna that is part of a
personal wireless telecommunications facility.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT: Equipment, exclusive of an
antenna, that is part of a personal wireless telecommunications facility.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: An antenna, equipment, and
related improvements used, or designed to be used, to provide wireless
transmission of voice, data video streams, images, or other information
including, but not limited to, cellular phone service, personal communication
service, paging, and Wi-Fi antenna service.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the Village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, State or Federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or commonly
used for utility purposes, including utility easements, in which the Village
has the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of
facilities other than those of the Village. Right-of-way shall not include any
real or personal Village property that is not specifically described in the
previous sentence and shall not include Village buildings, fixtures, and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
right-of-way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to this article.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SMALL CELL FACILITIES: A personal wireless telecommunications facility
consisting of an antenna and related equipment either installed singly or as
part of a network to provide coverage or enhance capacity in a limited defined
area. Generally single- service provider installation.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
service, private line services, mobile radio services, or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities.
"Private line" means a dedicated non-traffic sensitive service for a single
customer that entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a
communications channel, or a group of such channels, from one (1) or more
specified locations to one (1) or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code, and
protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
"Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by such provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the end to end communications.
"Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of cable services through
a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 USC
section 521 and following) as now or hereafter amended or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the Village
through an open video system as defined in the rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 CDF 76.1550 and following) as now or hereafter
amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the public right-of-way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Every person engaged in making sales of
telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS; SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or furnishing
of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection therewith for a
consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross charge made
by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater than the
gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not for
sale.
TOWER: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose
of supporting one (1) or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice
towers, guy towers, or monopole towers, and that is not a utility pole, an
alternative antenna structure, or a Village-owned infrastructure. Except as
otherwise provided for by this article, the requirements for a tower and
associated antenna facilities shall be those required in this article.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow, open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as defined
in this article.
UTILITY POLE: An upright pole designed and used to support electric cables,
telephone cables, telecommunication cables, cable service cables, which are
used to provide lighting, traffic control, signage, or a similar function.
VARIANCE OR VARIATION: A grant of relief by the Village or his/her designee.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VILLAGE: The Village of Hampshire, Kane County, Illinois.
VILLAGE-OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE: Infrastructure in public right-of- way within the
boundaries of the Village, including, but not limited to, streetlights, traffic
signals, towers, structures, or buildings owned, operated or maintained by the
Village.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
WI-FI ANTENNA: An antenna used to support Wi-Fi broadband internet access
service based on the IEEE 802.11 standard that typically uses unlicensed
spectrum to enable communication between devices. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-4: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies rights-of-way within the Village shall register on
January 1 of each year with the Village Administrator, providing the utility's
name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers, the name of
one (1) or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right-of-
way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and
evidence of insurance as required in this article, in the form of a certificate
of insurance. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-5: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this article)
any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any Village
right-of-way which: 1) changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a new
facility, 3) disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this article), or 4)
materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on,
over, above, along, under, across or within the right-of-way, without first
filing an application with the Village Engineer and obtaining a permit from the
Village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this article. No permit shall
be required for installation and maintenance of service connections to
customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the right-of-way.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
article shall be filed on a form provided by the Village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the Village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different from the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the Village:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the Village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ILCC Regulations for Emergency Contingency Plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the Village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required by this article;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in this
article;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one (1) or more provisions of this
article;
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
Village.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of new electric power,
communications, telecommunications cable television service, video service, or
natural gas distribution system, provide evidence that any "certificate of
public convenience and necessity" that the applicant is required by law to
obtain, or has elected to obtain, has been issued by the ILCC or other
jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and/or the Village, have been satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the Village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this article shall
be accompanied by payment of a fee in such amount as determined from time to
time by the Corporate Authorities. No application fee is required to be paid by
any electricity utility that is paying the Municipal electricity infrastructure
maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act.
(Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-6: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Village Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Village
Engineer within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not
conform to the requirements of all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the Village Engineer shall reject such application in writing,
stating the reasons therefor. If the Village Engineer is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this article and all applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the Village Engineer shall
recommend to the Village Administrator that a permit be issued therefor as soon
as practicable.
   B.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the Village
that it intends to commence work governed by this article for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the Village not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The Village
Engineer shall specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the facility
may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the Village Engineer fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either: a)
ten (10) days after service of notice to the Village by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction or
b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new construction, the
telecommunications retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under
this article.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the Village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to this article the telecommunications
retailer shall submit to the Village an application for a permit and any and
all plans, specifications and documentation available regarding the facility to
be constructed. Such application shall be subject to the requirements of
subsection A of this section.
   C.   Additional Village Review: Applications by a utility that is a holder
of a State issued authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of
2007 shall be deemed granted sixty (60) days after submission to the Village,
unless otherwise acted upon by the Village, provided the holder has complied
with applicable Village codes, ordinances, and regulations. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-
2017)
9-9-7: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the Village authorizes a permittee only to undertake certain
activities in accordance with this article on Village rights-of-way, and does
not create a property right in any right-of-way or grant authority to the
permittee to impinge upon the rights of others who may have an interest in the
public rights-of-way.
   B.   Duration: Any permit issued pursuant to this article shall be and
remain valid for a period of six (6) months after date of issuance; provided,
construction work on the project must be actually commenced within said time,
and thereafter be diligently pursued to completion, in which case the validity
of the permit shall be deemed to be extended to the date of completion, but in
no event longer than one (1) year. If no such construction work has commenced
within six (6) months of the date of issuance, the permit shall be deemed to
have expired and shall be then null and void.
   C.   Pre-Construction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this article prior to the conclusion of a
preconstruction meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held at a date,
time and place designated by the Village. The utility, any general contractor,
and all major subcontractors shall attend the meeting. The meeting shall be for
the purpose of reviewing the work to be performed under the permit, and
reviewing any special considerations necessary in the areas where work will
occur, including, without limitation, the presence or absence of other utility
facilities in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of
other utilities, use of the right-of-way by the public during construction, and
ingress and egress by adjacent property owners.
   D.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
Village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the Village and all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and
regulations. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-8: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the Village within ninety (90)
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit requirements also constitutes a deviation from the requirements of this
article, it shall be considered as a request for variance under this article.
If after consideration the Village denies the request for a variance, then the
permittee shall either remove the facility from the right-of- way or modify the
facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans
therefor. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-9: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying any right-of-way or
portion thereof, or constructing any facility in a right-of-way, shall secure
and maintain the following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as
named insured and naming the Village, and its elected and appointed officers,
officials, agents, and employees as additional insureds, on the policies listed
in subsections A1 and A2 of this section:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products- completed operations coverage
with limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one (1) accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
If the utility does not provide such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the Village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the Village.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor may
the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by
the Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of
a written notice addressed to the Village Administrator of such intent to
cancel or not to renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the Village of said notice, and in no
event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the Village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by this section. A utility
that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such self-insurance, to
comply with the requirement for the naming of additional insureds under
subsection A of this section, or the requirements of subsections B, C, and D of
this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the Village
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required under subsection A of this
section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private self-insurer" under
the Workers' Compensation Act.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the Village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business and licensed in the State of Illinois. All
insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A" or better and
of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-10: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the Village and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this article or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
article by the Village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-11: SECURITY:
   A.   Condition Of Permit/Purpose: As a condition of the Village's issuance
of any permit under this article, the permittee shall establish a security fund
in a form and in an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund
shall be continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the
permittee's sole cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized
under the permit. The security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this article;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the Village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the Village issued pursuant to this
article; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the Village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this article including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this article to perform that the Village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the Village from the permittee pursuant to
this article or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the Village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the Village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the Village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
Village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the Village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Provide a location convenient to the Village and within the State of
Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Village Engineer, and may also include reasonable,
directly related costs that the Village estimates are likely to be incurred if
the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the construction of
facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in phases in multiple
locations in the Village, with each phase consisting of construction of
facilities in one (1) location or a related group of locations, and where
construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Village Engineer
may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single
amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction
under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased construction shall
be equal to the greatest amount that would have been required under the
provisions of this subsection for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The Village, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written
notice clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal
rights under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the security fund,
provided that the permittee has not reimbursed the Village for such amount
within the fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the
permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the Village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the Village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this article that the Village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the Village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security
fund, the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in
this section.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the Village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the Village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, and satisfactory restoration of any disturbed
area, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of the security fund, or
such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a reasonable time after
account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate the Village for
failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this article or other
applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit, the security
fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the property of
the Village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs, loss or
damage incurred by the Village as a result of said revocation, provided that
any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to the
permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the Village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the Village, whether
reserved by this article or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the Village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-
2017)
9-9-12: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Village Right To Revoke Or Suspend Permit: The Village may revoke or
suspend a permit issued pursuant to this article for one (1) or more of the
following reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Non-compliance with the requirements of this article;
      3.   The physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities on,
over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public rights-of-way
that presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or
welfare; or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The Village shall send to permittee
written notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to
this article stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and
the alternatives available to permittee under this article.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the Village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the Village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the Village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the Village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-of-way
to the satisfaction of the Village providing written proof of such removal to
the Village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
The Village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this subsection.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the Village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth in this section.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the Village or
its designee may, at the option of the Village:
      1.   Correct the deficiencies;
      2.   Upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove
the subject facilities or equipment; or
      3.   After not less than thirty (30) days' notice to the permittee of
failure to cure the non-compliance, deem the facilities to be abandoned and to
be property of the Village.
The permittee shall be liable in all events to the Village for all costs of
removal. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-13: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the Village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right-of-way or any change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the
utility or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed
by the former owner under the original permit, if any, and all applicable laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations, including this article, with respect to the
work and facilities in the right-of-way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to request that a new
or amended permit be issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to
have accepted and to have agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions of the
original permit, if the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on
the Village's right-of-way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner immediately upon transfer.
(Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-14: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right-of-way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications:
      1.   "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices";
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
article, the Village Engineer shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the Village Engineer shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-15: TRAFFIC CONTROL STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The Village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this Code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting all applicable Federal, State, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the public rights-of-way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs the utility shall
provide such notice as is practicable under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the Village. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-16: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
      1.   No Interference With Village Facilities: No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the Village Engineer determines that the proposed
location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the Village's
utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the Village's utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   B.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
      1.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way line
and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
      2.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') behind the face of the curb,
where available;
      3.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement edge
as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') outside the outer
shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
      4.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
      5.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1') of
the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
   C.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility may
be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
      1.   The facility is located as near as practicable to the outside
boundary of the right-of-way, and so as not to interfere with other existing or
planned utilities, and parallel to the right- of-way line;
      2.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a highway
or any sidewalk located within the right-of-way only if all other locations are
impracticable or inconsistent with sound engineering judgment (e.g., a new
cable may be installed in existing conduit without disrupting the pavement).
   D.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of Village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ILCC's
rules entitled, "Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines" (83
Ill. Adm. Code 305) in effect from time to time;
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') of the right-of-way line
of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The Village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current Federal regulations (49 CFR 192.707 (1989)).
   E.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights-Of-Way: The Village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   F.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The Village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      2.   The Village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   G.   Aboveground Facilities Installed: Aboveground facilities may be
installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. The Village may require a particular style of pole; otherwise, suitable
designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting armless, single pole
construction with vertical configuration of conductors and cable. Existing
utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever practicable; the
installation of additional utility poles is strongly discouraged.
   H.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   I.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The Village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the highway user or impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-17: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS FOR FACILITIES NOT PERSONAL WIRELESS
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Village
Engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be
excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of boring or jacking
operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after boring or jacking
operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and
protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced,
and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads
that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following pipe,
and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of the
following pipe by more than one inch (1").
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the Village to be preserved shall be bored under or
around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction".
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the Village Engineer.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   Drip Line: The utility shall not trench within the drip line of
any tree designated by the Village to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the engineer, the utility, at its expense, shall remove any pavement
and backfill material to the top of the installed facility, place and properly
compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and
driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the engineer.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if the pertinent portion of the highway is
closed to traffic during the work and in accordance with the provisions of this
article. If a variance to this provision is requested under this article, the
following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled as soon as
practicable with granular material of CA-6 gradation, as designated by the
Village Engineer.
         b.   Restoration of pavement shall be as determined by the Village
Engineer and shall be accomplished as soon as practicable, and temporary repair
with bituminous mixture shall be provided immediately. Any subsequent failure
of either the temporary repair or the restoration shall be rebuilt upon
notification by the Village.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For any right-of-way which has been reconstructed with a concrete
surface/base in the seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the three (3) years, last
preceding the date of application, no permit for pavement cutting shall be
issued unless such work is determined to be either: 1) an emergency repair or
other work now considered necessary and unforeseen at the time of such
reconstruction or resurfacing, as the case may be, or 2) necessary for a JULIE
locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
Village.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or Village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the Village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                         Minimum Cover
Electric lines                           30 inches
Cable or video service lines             18 to 24 inches (as determined by
                                         Village)
Gas or petroleum products                30 inches
Water line                               Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                         protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                     protection
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within Village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois Administrative Code 305 (formerly
General Order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled "Rules for
Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines", and the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a Village
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, part 192 -
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 CFR 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Mains, Sanitary Sewers, Storm Sewers, Or Drainage Lines: Water
mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, and drainage lines within rights-of-way
shall meet or exceed the recommendations of the current "Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois" and the IDOT
"Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction".
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the engineer. With the approval of the engineer,
shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation free
area. The housing for ground mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral
color to blend with the surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right-Of-Way: All pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way
prior to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public
or an obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and
other property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval
must be obtained from the Village.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the
Village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the Village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the engineer when emergency work
is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   The hours of construction shall be as set forth in the permit.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the Village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The Village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the Village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act 1 . (Ord. 17-12,
3-16-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
9-9-18: STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS FOR PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES:
Personal wireless telecommunication facilities will be permitted to be placed
in right-of-way within the jurisdiction of the Village as attachments to PWTF
structures subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Height: No PWTF structure shall be greater than sixty feet (60') in
height, subject to the following exception(s):
      1.   If the Village Board of Trustees finds, based on clear and
convincing evidence submitted by the applicant, that it is necessary to locate
a PWTF structure in the right-of-way at a height greater than sixty feet (60')
specifically: a) to close a significant coverage or capacity gap in the
applicant's services or b) to otherwise provide adequate services to customers
in the Village, and further, in the sole discretion of the Village, that the
proposed new PWTF structure is the least intrusive means to do so, then the
PWTF structure may be greater than sixty feet (60') but in any case no more
than the one hundred twenty feet (120') in height.
      2.   Any tower, utility pole, monopole, alternative antenna structure or
Village-owned infrastructure existing at a height greater than sixty feet (60')
at the time of enactment of this article may be permitted as a PWTF structure.
      3.   In all cases, the top of the highest point of an antenna on any PWTF
structure shall not extend more than seven feet (7') above the highest point of
the PWTF structure on which it is placed.
   B.   Other Applicable Restrictions: No personal wireless telecommunication
antenna or facility within the right-of-way will be attached to any PWTF
structure unless all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      1.   Surface Area Of Antenna: The personal wireless telecommunication
antenna, including antenna panels, whip antennas, or dish-shaped antennas,
shall not have a surface area of more than seven (7) cubic feet in volume.
      2.   Size Of Above-Ground Personal Wireless Telecommunication Facility:
The total combined volume of all above-ground equipment and appurtenances
comprising a personal wireless telecommunication facility, exclusive of the
antenna itself, cannot exceed thirty two (32) cubic feet.
      3.   Personal Wireless Telecommunication Equipment: The operator of a
personal wireless telecommunication facility must, whenever possible, mount any
equipment or appurtenances on any PWTF structure so that the base of such
equipment or appurtenance is at a height of no lower than eight feet (8') above
grade.
      4.   Personal Wireless Telecommunication Services Equipment Mounted At
Grade: In the event that the operator of a personal wireless telecommunication
facility proposes to install a facility where equipment or appurtenances are to
be installed at grade, screening must be provided to minimize the visibility of
the facility. Screening must be installed at least three feet (3') from such
equipment and at least eight feet (8') from any roadway and shall not otherwise
obstruct or hinder visibility for vehicular traffic and/or pedestrians in the
right-of-way so as to be a hazard to safety.
      5.   Color: A personal wireless telecommunication facility, including all
related equipment and appurtenances, including ground-mounted equipment, must
be a color that blends with the surroundings of the pole, structure, tower or
infrastructure on which it is mounted and must use non-reflective materials
which blend with the materials and colors of the surrounding area and
structures. Any wiring must be covered with an appropriate cover.
      6.   Antenna Panel Covering: A personal wireless telecommunication
antenna may include a radome cap or other antenna panel covering or shield, to
the extent such covering would not result in a larger or more noticeable
facility and, if proposed, such covering must be of a color that blends with
the color of the pole, structure, tower or infrastructure on which it is
mounted.
      7.   Wiring And Cabling: Wires and cables connecting the antenna to the
remainder of the facility must be installed in accordance with the Electrical
Code currently in effect. No wiring and cabling serving the facility will be
allowed to interfere with any wiring or cabling installed by a cable television
or video service operator, electric utility or telephone utility.
      8.   Grounding: The personal wireless telecommunication facility must be
grounded in accordance with the requirements of the Electrical Code currently
in effect in the Village.
      9.   Guy Wires: No guy or other support wires will be used in connection
with a personal wireless telecommunication facility unless the facility is to
be attached to an existing PWTF structure that incorporated guy wires prior to
the date that the applicant applied for a permit.
      10.   Pole Extensions: Extensions to PWTF structures utilized for the
purpose of connecting a personal wireless telecommunications antenna and its
related personal wireless telecommunications equipment must have a degree of
strength capable of supporting the antenna and any related appurtenances and
cabling and capable of withstanding wind forces and ice loads in accordance
with the applicable structural integrity standards as set forth in subsection
B11 of this section. Such an extension must be securely bound to the PWTF
structure in accordance with applicable engineering standards for the design
and attachment of such extensions.
      11.   Structural Integrity: The personal wireless telecommunication
facility, including the antenna, pole extension and all related equipment must
be designed to withstand a wind force and ice loads in accordance with
applicable standards established in chapter 25 of the National Electric Safety
Code for utility poles, Rule 250-B and 250-C standards governing wind, ice, and
loading forces on utility poles, in the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) in TIA/EIA section 222-G established by the Telecommunications Industry
Association (TIA) and the Electronics Industry Association (EIA) for steel
wireless support structures and the applicable industry standard for other
existing structures. For any facility attached to Village-owned infrastructure
or, in the discretion of the Village, to a tower, utility pole, monopole, or
alternative antenna structure, the operator of the facility must provide the
Village with a structural evaluation of each specific location containing a
recommendation that the proposed installation passes the standards described
above. The evaluation must be prepared by a professional structural engineer
licensed in the State of Illinois.
   C.   Number Limitation/Co-Locations: The Village shall regulate the number
of personal wireless telecommunications facilities allowed on each utility pole
or unit of Village-owned infrastructure, as follows:
      1.   No more than two (2) personal wireless telecommunications facilities
will be permitted on any PWTF structure of sixty feet (60') or less in height.
      2.   No more than three (3) personal wireless telecommunications
facilities will be permitted on any PWTF structure in excess of sixty feet
(60') and less than one hundred twenty feet (120') in height.
      3.   This provision does not preclude or prohibit co-location of personal
wireless telecommunication facilities on any PWTF structure that meet the
requirements as set forth elsewhere in this section or as required by Federal
law.
   D.   Separation And Clearance Requirements: Personal wireless
telecommunication facilities may be attached to a PWTF structure only where
such tower, pole, structure or infrastructure is located no closer than a
distance equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the height of such facility to
any residential building and no closer than three hundred feet (300') from any
other personal wireless telecommunication facility. A separation or lesser
clearance may be allowed by the Village as a variance but only when the
applicant establishes that the lesser separation or clearance is necessary to
close a significant coverage or capacity gap in the applicant's services or to
otherwise provide adequate services to customers, and the proposed antenna or
facility is the least intrusive means to do so within the right- of-way.
   E.   Village-Owned Infrastructure: Personal wireless telecommunication
facilities can be mounted to Village-owned infrastructure including, but not
limited to, streetlights, traffic signal, towers or buildings only if also
authorized by a written license or other agreement between the applicant and
the Village.
   F.   Signage: Other than signs required by Federal law or regulations, and
identification and location markings, no signs shall be posted or installed on
a personal wireless telecommunication facility.
   G.   Screening: If screening is required under subsection B4 of this
section, it must consist of natural landscaping material or a fence subject to
the approval of the Village, and must comply with all regulations of the
Village. Appropriate landscaping must be located and maintained and must
provide the maximum achievable screening, as determined by the Village, from
view of adjoining properties and public or private streets. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such screening is required to extend more than nine feet (9') in
height. Landscape screening when permitted in the right-of-way must be provided
with a clearance of three feet (3') in all directions from the facility. For a
covered structure, the maximum reasonably achievable screening must be provided
between such facility and the view from adjoining properties and public or
private streets. In lieu of the operator installing the screening, the Village,
at its sole discretion, may accept a fee from the operator of the facility for
the acquisition, installation, or maintenance of landscaping material by the
Village. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-19: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A.   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Law And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, Village ordinances, and any franchise or other agreement with the
Village; and only after prior consultation with the Village Administrator.
   B.   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Required: Tree trimming shall not be
considered a normal maintenance operation, but shall require the application
for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition to any other permit required
under this article.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The Village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The Village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   C.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The Village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use:
      1.   Use Prohibited: Except as provided in the following subsection, no
utility shall spray, inject or put any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs
or vegetation in the Village for any purpose, including the control of growth,
insects or disease, without prior written consent of the Village.
      2.   Chemical Use: Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will
not be permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the Village Engineer that such spraying is the only practicable
method of vegetation control. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-20: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
Village, a utility shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently
remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility facilities within
the rights-of-way whenever the Corporate Authorities have determined that such
removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably necessary for the
construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any Village improvement
in or upon, or the operations of the Village in or upon, the rights-of-way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the Village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the public rights-of-
way shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the public rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and
subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this article; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The Village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the Village, as the Village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the Municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
public rights-of-way of the Village, the utility shall notify the Village
within ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the Village may
direct the utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the Village
Engineer determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the
public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the Village does not
direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice
of abandonment to the Village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to
consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by
another utility or person. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-21: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
Upon completion of all construction or maintenance of facilities, the utility
shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain and other
property within ten (10) days after any portion of the rights-of-way are
disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by the
utility, all to the satisfaction of the Village. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the Village Engineer. Such cleanup and repair
may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding, re-sodding, or
any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition substantially
equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the project. The
time period provided in this section may be extended by the Village
Administrator for good cause shown. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-22: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the Village and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of any
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will be permitted only when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Village Engineer or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the Village Police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file with the Village Administrator
a written description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within
forty eight (48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-23: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authority To Grant Variances: The Village may grant a variance from any
of the terms and provisions of this article.
   B.   Request For Variance: An applicant requesting a variance from one (1)
or more of the provisions of this article must do so in writing as a part of
the permit application. The request shall identify each provision of this
article from which a variance is requested and the reasons why a variance
should be granted.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The Village may allow a variance
only if the utility requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
      1.   Any condition specifically prescribed herein for the particular type
of variance requested;
      2.   One (1) or more conditions not under the control of the utility
(such as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision;
      3.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the application; and
      4.   Any other reasonable standards and conditions that may or may not be
expressly contained within this article but which carry out the purposes of
this article. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-24: RIGHT TO APPEAL:
Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement, decision or determination,
including denial of a variance, made by the Village under the provisions of
this article shall have the right to appeal to the Village Board, or such other
board or commission as it may designate. The application for appeal shall be
submitted in writing to the Village Clerk within thirty (30) days after the
date of such order, requirement, decision or determination. The Village Board
or other board or commission shall commence its consideration of the appeal at
the Board's next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least seven (7) days
after the filing of the appeal. The Village Board shall timely decide the
appeal. (Ord. 17-12, 3-16-2017)
9-9-25: PENALTIES AND SANCTIONS:
   A.   Penalty:
      1.   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this article shall be subject to fine in
accordance with the penalty provisions of this Code.
      2.   In addition, the utility shall reimburse the Village for any costs
or damages incurred by the Village:
         a.   Arising out of or resulting from the utility's actions or
omissions, including delay in performance, related to performance due in
compliance with this article, including any third party claims, and
specifically, including reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
         b.   For installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or removing
any facility that is the subject of its permit.
      3.   No administrative agency or commission may review or overrule the
Village's assessment of a permit-related cost to a utility under this section.
      4.   An appropriate sanction or sanctions may also be imposed by the
Village or by any court of competent jurisdiction upon a utility that does not
pay any such costs assessed against it in compliance with this section. (Ord.
17-12, 3-16-2017)
ARTICLE X
STREAM PRESERVATION
SECTION:
9-10-1: Jurisdiction
9-10-2: Deposit Of Wastes, Debris, Obstructions And Other Harmful Materials
Prohibited
9-10-3: Watercourse Protection
9-10-4: Request For Cleanup
9-10-5: Conflicts
9-10-6: Penalty
9-10-1: JURISDICTION:
Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-4-4, the village has jurisdiction
over all waters within or bordering the village to the extent of three (3)
miles beyond the corporate limits. (Ord. 08-55, 12-4-2008)
9-10-2: DEPOSIT OF WASTES, DEBRIS, OBSTRUCTIONS AND OTHER HARMFUL MATERIALS
PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall throw, discharge, dump, place, or cause to be thrown,
dumped, placed, or deposited, or allow to run, into a public watercourse
governed by this article, or into any village storm sewer or other apparatus or
construct for collection or conveyance of stormwater, such as an overland
swale, any of the following:
      1.   Any pollutant, or liquid containing any pollutant;
      2.   Any hazardous material;
      3.   Any clay, earth, ashes, debris, filth, logs, branches, leaves,
brush, grass clippings, refuse, or other heavy material;
      4.   Any garbage, refuse, vegetable matter, waste, animal matter or
waste, or other unwholesome substance; or
      5.   Any flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas, including, but not
limited to, gasoline, oil, tar, benzene, naptha, or fuel oil, or any substance
containing more than one hundred (100) parts per million by weight of fat, oil
or grease; or any cyanides, phenols, or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous
substance.
   B.   For purposes of this section, a "pollutant" shall mean anything that
contributes to or causes pollution, including, but not limited to, paints,
varnishes, solvents; oil and other automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and
solid wastes; yard wastes; pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; hazardous
substances; sewage, fecal coliforms, and pathogens; dissolved and particulate
metals; animal wastes; residues resulting from constructing a building or other
structure; and noxious and offensive matter of any kind. (Ord. 08-55, 12-4-
2008)
9-10-3: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION:
   A.   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or
such person's lessee, or any other person in possession of said property, shall
keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within the property free of all
materials described in section
9-10-2 of this article.
   B.   In addition, such owner, lessee, or other person in possession of such
property shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent
to a watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
   C.   Such owner, lessee or other person in possession of such a property
shall not remove healthy bank vegetation beyond that actually necessary for
usual and customary maintenance, nor remove said vegetation in such a manner as
to increase the vulnerability of the watercourse to erosion.
   D.   Such property owner, lessee, or other person in possession of the
property shall be responsible for maintaining and stabilizing that portion of
the watercourse that is within his property lines in order to protect against
erosion and degradation of the watercourse; provided, such person shall first
obtain a permit from the village and from any other governing agency before
undertaking any regulated activity in such watercourse.
   E.   Whenever the village finds that any such owner has failed or refused to
comply with the requirements of this article, the village may by written notice
to such person require that the violation be remediated and/or the affected
property or watercourse be restored within a specified reasonable time.
      1.   Upon the failure of the person so notified to take action as
required, then the village may remediate or cause to be remediated any such
pollutant or other prohibited material, and/or shall restore the affected
property or watercourse, in or related to any natural and other watercourse,
whether located inside or within three (3) miles of the corporate limits, and
for that purpose may enter onto and go across the lands or waters of any person
and remove same; provided, the village shall be responsible for any damages
which shall be occasioned thereby.
      2.   To the extent allowed by law, the village may secure a lien against
such property to recover the cost of such removal.
   F.   Furthermore, the village may by written notice thereof require that any
person engaged in any activity and/or owning, leasing, or in possession of any
property or facility which may cause or contribute to stormwater pollution,
illegal discharges, and/or nonstormwater discharges to the village storm drain
system or waters of the United States, undertake at said person's expense such
monitoring and analysis and furnish such reports to the village as deemed
necessary from time to time to determine compliance with the requirements of
this article. (Ord. 08-55, 12-4-2008)
9-10-4: REQUEST FOR CLEANUP:
Any property owner, lessee or other person in possession of a property seeking
cleanup of a watercourse on his or any adjoining property may request in
writing that the village effect said cleanup. The village shall in its sole
discretion determine whether any such request shall be granted. (Ord. 08-55,
12-4-2008)
9-10-5: CONFLICTS:
   A.   No provision of this article shall be construed as authorizing or
permitting any act which is now or shall hereafter be prohibited by the state,
or any of its agencies, and its regulations; or as prohibiting any act which
shall be authorized or permitted by the state, or any of its agencies, or its
regulations.
   B.   In each instance where the provisions of this article may be construed
to conflict with any other specific provision(s) of this code, pertaining to
the regulation, construction, or use of any public or private sewer or drain,
such other specific provision(s) of this code shall prevail. (Ord. 08-55, 12-4-
2008)
9-10-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined an amount not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each offense. Provided, each day such violation occurs or continues shall
be considered a separate offense under this article. Any fine imposed under
this section shall be in addition to the obligation to pay or reimburse the
costs of removal or remediation of the condition(s) caused by such violation,
and/or the costs of monitoring, analyzing, and reporting to determine
compliance with the requirements of this article. (Ord. 08-55, 12-4-2008)
CHAPTER 10
REVENUE BONDS
Industrial Project Revenue Bonds   I
ARTICLE I
INDUSTRIAL PROJECT REVENUE BONDS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Definitions
10-1-2: Declaration Of Purpose
10-1-3: Additional Powers
10-1-4: Exercise Of Powers; Bonds
10-1-5: Vote Required
10-1-6: Covenants In Bonds
10-1-7: Signatures Of Officers On Bonds; Validity Of Bonds
10-1-8: Lien Of Bonds
10-1-9: Liability For Bonds
10-1-10: Revenues From Industrial Projects
10-1-11: Necessity Of Certificate, Franchise, License, Etc.
10-1-12: Powers Conferred As Additional And Supplemental; Limitations Imposed;
Effect
10-1-13: Disclosure Of Interest
10-1-14: Financing Fee
10-1-15: Deposit
10-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this Article, shall, for the
purposes of this Article, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this Article, except when the context otherwise requires and except where
another definition set forth in another section of this Article and applicable
to that section or a designated part thereof is applicable:
BOND(S): Industrial project revenue bonds.
BOND ORDINANCE: An ordinance authorizing a specific issue of bonds adopted by
the President and Board of Trustees of the Village in accordance with the
policies and procedures set forth in this Article.
INDUSTRIAL PROJECT: Any capital project, including one or more buildings and
other structures, improvements, machinery and equipment whether or not on the
same site or sites now existing or hereafter acquired, suitable for use by any
manufacturing, industrial, research or commercial enterprise, including but not
limited to, use as a factory, mill, processing plant, assembly plant, packaging
plant, fabricating plant, office building, industrial distribution center,
warehouse, repair, overhaul or service facility, freight terminal, research
facility, test facility, commercial facility, and including also the sites
thereof and other rights and land therefor whether improved or unimproved, site
preparation and landscaping, and all appurtenances and facilities incidental
thereto such as utilities, access roads, railroad sidings, truck docking and
similar facilities, parking facilities, dockage, wharfage, and other
improvements necessary or convenient thereto; or any land, buildings, machinery
or equipment comprising an addition to, or renovation, rehabilitation or
improvement of any existing capital project.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, or any other
legal entity, whether legal representative, agent or their assigns.
PROJECT COSTS: The sum total of all reasonable or necessary costs incidental to
the acquisition, construction, or reconstruction, repair, alteration,
improvement and extension of an industrial project, including without
limitation the cost of studies and surveys; plans, specifications,
architectural and engineering services; legal, marketing or other special
services; financing, acquisition, demolition, construction, equipment and site
development of new and rehabilitated buildings; rehabilitation, reconstruction,
repair or remodeling of existing buildings and all other necessary and
incidental expenses, including an initial bond and interest reserve together
with interest on bonds issued to finance a project to a date six (6) months
subsequent to the date of completion.
USER: The person or persons who will occupy, operate, maintain or employ the
project after acquisition or construction thereof whether as owner, purchaser,
lessee or otherwise.
VILLAGE: The Village of Hampshire, Kane County, Illinois. (1985 Code)
10-1-2: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined and declared that the purpose of this Article is to
provide a financing device which will aid in financing the costs of industrial
projects; and in particular, those projects whose economic feasibility are
predicated on obtaining financing, pursuant to the terms of this Article; and
the same is hereby declared and determined to be a public purpose and is
necessary for the public safety, benefit and welfare of the residents of the
Village. (1985 Code)
10-1-3: ADDITIONAL POWERS:
In addition to the powers which it may now have, the Village shall have the
power under this Article:
   A.   To construct, acquire by gift, lease or purchase, reconstruct, improve,
better or extend, or to finance the construction, acquisition, reconstruction,
improvement, betterment, or extension of any industrial project within or
without the Village or partially within or partially without the Village, but
in no event further than ten (10) miles from the territorial boundaries of the
Village, and to acquire by gift, lease or purchase, lands or rights in land in
connection therewith.
   B.   To issue its bonds to finance in whole or in part the cost of the
acquisition, purchase, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment or
extension of any industrial project. The Village need not acquire or hold title
to such industrial project. The President and Board of Trustees of the Village
in determining such cost may include all cost and estimated cost of the
issuance of such bonds, all engineering, inspection, fiscal and legal expenses,
and interest which it is estimated will accrue during the construction period
and for six (6) months thereafter on money borrowed or which it is estimated
will be borrowed pursuant to this Article.
   C.   To rent, lease, sell or otherwise dispose of such industrial project or
to loan the proceeds of its bonds to industrial or commercial enterprises
(which may include corporations, partnerships or individuals engaged in
business or commerce) in such manner that rents or other payments to be derived
with respect to the industrial project shall be fixed and revised from time to
time so as to produce income and revenues sufficient to provide for the prompt
payment of interest upon all bonds issued under this Article, and to create a
sinking fund to pay the principal of such bonds when due, and to provide for
the operation and maintenance of such industrial project and for an adequate
depreciation account in connection therewith.
   D.   To pledge to the punctual payment of bonds authorized under this
Article and interest thereon the income and revenues to be received with
respect to such industrial project (including improvements, betterments or
extensions thereto thereafter constructed or acquired) sufficient to pay such
bonds and interest as they become due and to create and maintain reasonable
reserves therefor.
   E.   To mortgage or grant a security interest in such industrial project in
favor of the holder or holders of bonds issued therefor.
   F.   To sell and convey such industrial project, including without
limitation the sale and conveyance thereof subject to a mortgage or security
interest as provided in this Article, for such price and at such time as the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village may determine. However, no sale
or conveyance of such industrial project shall ever be made in such manner as
to impair the rights or interests of the holder or holders of any bonds issued
for the construction, purchase, improvement or extension of any such industrial
project.
   G.   To issue its bonds to refund in whole or in part, bonds theretofore
issued by the Village under authority of this Article.
The Village shall be exempt from the payment of taxes with respect to property
acquired by the Village pursuant to the provisions of this Article while such
property is owned by the Village, but the occupant of such property shall be
subject to taxation as if he were the owner of such property. (1985 Code)
10-1-4: EXERCISE OF POWERS; BONDS:
The financing of the construction, acquisition, reconstruction, improvement,
betterment or extension of any industrial project may be authorized under this
Article and bonds may be authorized to be issued under this Article to provide
funds for such purpose or purposes or for the refunding of bonds theretofore
issued under this Article, by an ordinance which may be adopted at the same
meeting at which it is introduced by a majority of all the corporate
authorities thereof then in office and shall take effect immediately upon
adoption.
The bonds shall bear interest at such rate or rates without regard to any
limitation in any other law, shall be payable at such times, may be in one or
more series, may bear such date or dates, may mature at such time or times not
exceeding forty (40) years from their respective dates, may be payable in such
medium of payment at such place or places, may carry such registration
privileges, may be subject to such terms of redemption, may be executed in such
manner, may contain such terms, covenants, and conditions, and may be in such
form, either coupon or registered, as such bond ordinance or subsequent bond
ordinances may provide. The bonds may be sold in such manner and upon such
terms as may be deemed advisable by the President and Board of Trustees.
Pending the preparation of the definitive bonds, interim receipts or
certificates in such form and with such provisions as the President and Board
of Trustees may determine, may be issued to the purchaser or purchasers of
bonds sold pursuant to this Article. The bonds and interim receipts or
certificates are fully negotiable within the meaning and for all purposes of
the "Uniform Commercial Code". (1985 Code)
10-1-5: VOTE REQUIRED:
No bonds may be issued under this Article unless the bond issue is approved by
the affirmative vote of three-fifths (3/5) of the President and Board of
Trustees. (1985 Code)
10-1-6: COVENANTS IN BONDS:
Any bond ordinance may contain covenants as to a) the use and disposition of
the income and revenues from or with respect to the industrial project for
which the bonds are to be issued, including the creation and maintenance of
reserves; b) the issuance of other or additional bonds payable from the income
and revenues from or with respect to such industrial project; c) the
maintenance and repair of such industrial project; d) the insurance to be
carried thereon and the use and disposition of the insurance moneys; and e) the
terms and conditions upon which the holders of the bonds or any portion thereof
or any trustees therefor, are entitled to the appointment of a receiver by the
chancery court, which court has jurisdiction in such proceedings, and which
receiver may enter and take possession of the industrial project if it is then
owned by the Village and lease, sell or otherwise dispose of it and maintain
it, prescribe rentals or other payments and collect, receive and apply all
income and revenues thereafter arising therefrom in the same manner and to the
same extent as the Village itself might do.
Any bond ordinance may provide that the principal of and interest on any bonds
issued under this Article shall be secured by a mortgage or deed of trust
covering such industrial project for which the bonds are issued and may include
any improvements or extensions thereafter made. Such mortgage or deed of trust
may contain such covenants and agreements to properly safeguard the bonds as
may be provided for in the bond ordinance but not inconsistent with this
Article and shall be executed in the manner as may be provided for in the bond
ordinance. A mortgage or deed of trust by which a security interest is created
or a financing statement relating thereto need not be filed or recorded under
the Uniform Commercial Code, or otherwise, except in the records of the
Village. The provisions of this Article and any such bond ordinance or bond
ordinances and any such mortgage or deed of trust is a contract with the holder
or holders of the bonds and continues in effect until the principal of and the
interest on the bonds so issued has been fully paid, and the duties of the
Village and its President and Board of Trustees and officers under this Article
and any such bond ordinance or bond ordinances and any such mortgage or deed of
trust are enforceable by any bondholder by mandamus, foreclosure of any such
mortgage or deed of trust or other appropriate suit, action or proceedings in
any court of competent jurisdiction. (1985 Code)
10-1-7: SIGNATURES OF OFFICERS ON BONDS; VALIDITY OF BONDS:
The bonds bearing the signatures of officers in office on the date of the
signing thereof are valid and binding obligations, notwithstanding that before
the delivery thereof and payment therefor any or all the persons whose
signatures appear thereon ceased to be officers of the Village. The validity of
the bonds is not dependent on nor affected by the validity or regularity of any
proceedings relating to the acquisition, purchase, construction,
reconstruction, improvement, betterment or extension of the industrial project
for which the bonds are issued. The bond ordinance may provide that the bonds
shall contain a recital that they are issued pursuant to the Illinois Revised
Statutes, chapter 24, sections 11-74-1 et seq., and this Article, which recital
is conclusive evidence of their validity and of the regularity of their
issuance. (1985 Code)
10-1-8: LIEN OF BONDS:
All bonds issued under this Article have a lien upon the income and revenues
delivered by the Village with respect to the industrial project for which the
bonds have been issued, and the President and Board of Trustees may provide in
any bond ordinance for the issuance of additional bonds to be equally and
ratably secured by a lien upon such income and revenues or may provide that the
lien upon such income and revenues for future bonds is subordinate. (1985 Code)
10-1-9: LIABILITY FOR BONDS:
No holder of any bonds issued under this Article has the right to compel any
exercise of taxing power of the Village to pay the bonds or the interest
thereon, and the bonds do not constitute an indebtedness of the Village or a
loan of credit thereof within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory
provision. It shall be plainly stated on the face of each bond that it has been
issued under the provisions of Illinois Revised Statutes, chapter 24, sections
11-74-1 et seq., and this Article, and that it does not constitute an
indebtedness of the Village or a loan of credit thereof within the meaning of
any constitutional or statutory provision. (1985 Code)
10-1-10: REVENUES FROM INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS:
The President and Board of Trustees of the Village shall prescribe and collect
revenues with respect to an industrial project and shall review such from time
to time whenever necessary so that such revenues are always sufficient to pay
when due all bonds and interest thereon for the payment of which such revenues
are pledged, including reserves therefor. (1985 Code)
10-1-11: NECESSITY OF CERTIFICATE, FRANCHISE, LICENSE, ETC.:
It is not necessary for the Village, proceeding under this Article, to obtain
any certificate of convenience or necessity, franchise, license, permit, or
other authorization from any bureau, board, commission, or other lay
instrumentality of the State of Illinois in order to acquire, construct,
purchase, reconstruct, improve, better or extend any industrial project or for
the issuance of bonds in connection therewith. (1985 Code)
10-1-12: POWERS CONFERRED AS ADDITIONAL AND SUPPLEMENTAL; LIMITATIONS IMPOSED;
EFFECT:
The powers conferred by this Article are in addition and supplemental to, and
the limitations imposed by this Article shall not affect, the powers conferred
by any other law. Industrial projects may be acquired, purchased, constructed,
reconstructed, improved, bettered and extended, and bonds may be issued under
this Article for such purposes, notwithstanding that any other law may provide
for the acquisition, purchase, construction, reconstruction, improvement,
betterment and extension of a like industrial project, or the issuance of bonds
for like purposes, and without regard to the requirements, restrictions,
limitation or other provisions contained in any other law. (1985 Code)
10-1-13: DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST:
Any member of the corporate authority of the Village shall disclose any
pecuniary interest in any employment, financing, agreement or other contract
made under the provisions of this Article before any action by the President
and Board of Trustees on it, and shall not vote on any such matter.
Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, any financing agreement or
other contract made or procured in conformity with the provisions of this
Section shall not be void by reason of the pecuniary interest of any member of
the corporate authority of the Village therein; nor shall such person be
subject to any penalty by reason of the making or procuring thereof. (1985
Code)
10-1-14: FINANCING FEE:
The Village shall charge a financing fee each time that bonds are issued by it
as provided in this Article. Said fee shall be computed at the rate of ten
dollars ($10.00) per thousand dollars ($1,000.00) of bonds for the first one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) of bonds issued; for bond issues exceeding one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00), the Village shall charge an additional fee to
be computed at the rate of five dollars ($5.00) per one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) of bonds issued in excess of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
Financing fees shall be calculated on the principal amount of bonds issued at
the time of the issuance of bonds by the Village. Financing fees shall be
deemed reimbursement to the Village for its administrative costs in reviewing,
evaluating and administering any bond issue and shall be a project cost in
addition to those costs described in Section
10-1-1 of this Article. (1985 Code)
10-1-15: DEPOSIT:
Any person requesting the Village to finance any project by issuance of its
bonds shall make a nonrefundable deposit with the Village Clerk in the amount
of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), such amount being necessary to reimburse
the Village for its preliminary expenses in investigating the desirability and
feasibility of such financing. Upon the adoption of a resolution indicating the
Village's preliminary agreement to issue a specific amount of bonds for the
proposed project, an additional deposit equal to one-half (1/2) of the
financing fee shall be paid to the Village, provided that the initial,
nonrefundable deposit shall be allowed as a credit against said one-half (1/2)
financing fee. Said deposits shall be disbursed by the Village in payment of
the Village's expenses notwithstanding that financing is not completed;
however, said deposits may be repaid as a project cost from the proceedings of
any bonds issued to finance the project. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 11
STORMWATER REGULATIONS
Kane County Stormwater Management
Ordinance   I
ARTICLE I
KANE COUNTY STORMWATER MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE
SECTION:
11-1-1: Adopted By Reference
11-1-1: ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
This code of 1985, as amended, shall be and is hereby further amended by
adopting as its stormwater management regulations, the Kane County stormwater
ordinance 01-312, adopted October 9, 2001, and the revisions to said ordinance,
thereafter adopted in county ordinance 01-442, dated December 11, 2001; and by
ordinance 04-392, dated October 12, 2004; and by ordinance 08-342, dated
November 12, 2008; and as modified thereafter from time to time by the Kane
County board. (Ord. 08-54, 11-20-2008)
CHAPTER 12
THE CODE
Title; Interpretation   I
Amendments   II
Printing   III
Repealing Clause   IV
Effective Date   V
ARTICLE I
TITLE; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
12-1-1: Title
12-1-2: Construction Of Words
12-1-3: Penalties
12-1-4: Officers Or Employees
12-1-5: Intent
12-1-1: TITLE:
This code shall be known as the MUNICIPAL CODE OF HAMPSHIRE OF 1985. Any
reference to the number of any section contained herein shall be understood to
refer to the position of the same under its appropriate heading, its article
heading, if any, and to the penalty clause relating thereto as well as to the
section itself, when reference is made to this code by title in any legal
document or ordinance of the village. (1985 Code)
12-1-2: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this code imparting the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not be used.
   B.   When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this code by
words imparting the singular person or number only, or the masculine gender,
several matters, parties or persons, and females as well as males, and bodies
corporate shall be deemed to be included.
   C.   The words "person, firm or corporation" shall be deemed to include any
association or organization of any kind.
   D.   Words in the present shall be deemed to include the future.
   E.   The words "this code" shall be held, whenever used in this code, to
mean the entire code, including each and every section thereof.
   F.   The word "village", whenever used in this code, shall be held and taken
to mean the village of Hampshire, Kane County, Illinois.
   G.   The words "written" and "in writing" may include printing or
mimeographing, provided that these rules of construction shall not be applied
to any section of this code which contains an express provision excluding such
construction or where the subject matter or content of such section may be
repugnant thereto. (1985 Code)
12-1-3: PENALTIES:
   A.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense, provided that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
   B.   Whenever in this code the doing of any act or the omission to do an act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty declared for such breach, any person who shall be
convicted of any such breach shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00), nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   C.   In addition to any other penalty authorized by any provision of this
code, the court may enter an order for court supervision if, after considering
the circumstances of the offense, and the history, character and condition of
the offender, the court is of the opinion that the offender is not likely to
commit further offenses, and the offender, the public and the best interests of
justice would be best served by an order of supervision, subject to such
reasonable conditions as the court shall deem necessary or advisable under the
circumstances. (Ord. 11-11, 2-17-2011)
12-1-4: OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES:
Whenever in this code reference is made to a village officer or employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though it were followed by the words "of
the village of Hampshire", and shall be taken to mean officer or employee of
this village having the title mentioned or performing the duties indicated.
(1985 Code)
12-1-5: INTENT:
All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this code
shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the
village board may be fully carried out. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE II
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Reference To Code
12-2-2: Penalties
12-2-3: Recording Amendments
12-2-1: REFERENCE TO CODE:
Any additions or amendments to this Code when passed in such form as to
indicate the intention of the Village Board to make the same a part of this
Ordinance shall be deemed to be incorporated in this Ordinance so that a
reference to the Municipal Code of Hampshire of 1985 shall be understood to
include them. (1985 Code)
12-2-2: PENALTIES:
In case of amendment of any section of this Ordinance containing provisions for
which a penalty is provided in another section, the penalty so provided in such
other section shall be held to relate to the section so amended or the amending
section whether re-enacted in the amendatory ordinance or not, unless such
penalty is specifically repealed therein. (1985 Code)
12-2-3: RECORDING AMENDMENTS:
It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to keep at least one copy of the
Municipal Code of Hampshire of 1985 which he shall make in the following
manner:
   A.   Whenever an ordinance which amends or makes an addition to the Code is
passed and approved, he shall note on the margin of the section or sections
amended that such amendment has been made, with a reference to the place in the
amendment book, hereinafter described, where the amendment may be found; and in
case of an addition, he shall mark in the appropriate place a notation that
such an addition has been made, with a similar reference to the aforesaid
amendment book.
   B.   The Village Clerk shall also keep a separate book containing every
amendment or addition passed to this Code, with a reference on each copy of
such amendment or addition as to the place in the record of ordinances which
the Clerk is required to keep by statute.
   C.   The abovementioned records shall be kept in addition to the record of
ordinances which the Clerk is required to keep by statute. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE III
PRINTING
SECTION:
12-3-1: Authorization
12-3-2: Distribution Of Copies
12-3-3: Presentation Of Copies
12-3-1: AUTHORIZATION:
This Ordinance, the Municipal Code of Hampshire of 1985, shall be printed or
mimeographed, and published in book or pamphlet form. (1985 Code)
12-3-2: DISTRIBUTION OF COPIES:
All copies of the Municipal Code of Hampshire of 1985 belonging to the Village
shall be deposited with the Village Clerk. He shall deliver one copy thereof to
the Village President, one to each member of the Village Board, and copies to
such other persons as the Board may direct. (1985 Code)
12-3-3: PRESENTATION OF COPIES:
The Village President shall have the power to extend to or reciprocate the
courtesies of other municipalities by presenting to them a copy of the
Municipal Code of Hampshire of 1985, bound at the expense of the Village as to
him may seem suitable; and he shall have the power to present two (2) copies of
this Code to the Illinois Municipal League. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE IV
REPEALING CLAUSE
SECTION:
12-4-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances, Exceptions
12-4-2: Public Utilities Ordinances
12-4-3: Pending Suits
12-4-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES, EXCEPTIONS:
All general ordinances passed by the President and Board of Trustees prior to
April 18, 1985, except as are expressly excepted from repeal herein, and except
such as are referred to herein as being still in force or are by necessary
implication herein reserved from repeal, are hereby repealed (subject to the
saving clauses contained in the following section). The following ordinances
are expressly excluded from the general repealer in this Section and are not
repealed:
   A.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   B.   Franchise and other ordinances granting special privileges to persons
or corporations;
   C.   Contract ordinances;
   D.   Salary ordinances;
   E.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   F.   Ordinances setting speed limits;
   G.   Ordinances authorizing the execution of a contract;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by the
Village; and,
   L.   All special ordinances. (1985 Code)
12-4-2: PUBLIC UTILITIES ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets or other
public ways or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the passage of this Ordinance or by
virtue of the preceding section, or considered as amending such ordinance or
ordinances in the respect of such provisions only. (1985 Code)
12-4-3: PENDING SUITS:
   A.   No new ordinances shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against the former ordinance, or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claims arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall
conform, as far as possible, to the ordinance in force at the time of
proceeding.
   B.   If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision
of a new ordinance, such provision may, by consent of the party affected, be
applied to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
   C.   This Section shall extend to all repeals, whether the repeal is in the
ordinance making any new provisions upon the same subject or any other
ordinance.
   D.   Nothing contained in this or the preceding section shall be construed
as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance
of the Village herein repealed; or as discontinuing, abating, or modifying or
altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any
person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the Village under any
section or provision of ordinances existing at the time of the passage of this
Ordinance. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE V
EFFECTIVE DATE
SECTION:
12-5-1: Time Of Taking Effect
12-5-1: TIME OF TAKING EFFECT:
This Ordinance, the same being herein designated as the MUNICIPAL CODE OF
HAMPSHIRE OF 1985, shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage
and publication in pamphlet form pursuant to the authority of the Board of
Trustees.
Passed this 18th day of April, 1985.
                                                   
   Robert Kudlicki, Village President
Attest:
                                         
Deanne Tamms, Village Clerk
(1985 Code)
CHAPTER 13
FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS
General Provisions   I
Flood Fringe Areas   II
Identified Floodways   III
Floodway Not Identified   IV
Permitting Requirements   V
Other Development Requirements   VI
Variances   VII
Disclaimer Of Liability   VIII
Penalty   IX
Abrogation And Greater Restrictions   X
Fees   XI
ARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
13-1-1: Purpose
13-1-2: Definitions
13-1-3: Procedure
13-1-4: Duties Of The Enforcement Official
13-1-5: Base Flood Elevation
13-1-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   This Chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this
Village by Illinois Revised Statutes, chapter 24, sections, 1-2-1, 11-12-12,
11-30-8, and 11-31-2.
   B.   The purpose of this Chapter is to maintain this Village's eligibility
in the National Flood Insurance Program; to minimize potential losses due to
periodic flooding including loss of life, loss of property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare;
and to preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters, conserve economic
and natural values and provide for the wise utilization of water and related
land resources.
   C.   This Chapter is adopted in order to accomplish the following specific
purposes:
      1.   To meet the requirement of chapter 19, paragraph 65(g) of the
Illinois Revised Statutes, An Act in Relation to the Regulation of the Rivers,
Lakes and Streams in the State of Illinois, approved June 10, 1911, as amended;
      2.   To assure that new development does not increase the flood or
drainage hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible to
erosion;
      3.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
      4.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
      5.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood-damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
      6.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property
in the Village by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program;
      7.   To comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 CFR 59-79, as amended;
      8.   To protect, conserve, and promote the orderly development of land
and water resources;
      9.   To preserve the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of
watercourses and flood plains and to protect water quality and aquatic
habitats; and
      10.   To preserve the natural characteristics of stream corridors in
order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve water quality, reduce
soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
13-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
ACT: An Act in Relation to the Regulation of the Rivers, Lakes and Streams in
the State of Illinois, Illinois Revised Statutes 1987, chapter 19, paragraph 52
et seq.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, corporation or agency which submits an
application.
APPROPRIATE USE: Only uses of the regulatory floodway that are permissible will
be considered for permit issuance. The only uses that will be allowed are as
specified in Section
13-3-3 of this Chapter.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year
frequency flood event. Application of the base flood elevation at any location
is as defined in Section
13-1-5 of this Article.
BUILDING: A structure that is principally above ground and enclosed by walls
and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a manufactured
home, mobile home or a prefabricated building. This term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site for more
than one hundred eighty (180) days, unless such are fully licensed and ready
for highway use.
CHANNEL: Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash, or natural or man-made drainageway, which has a definite bed and
banks or shoreline, in or into which surface or groundwater flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes
damming, riprapping or other armoring, widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining and significant removal of bottom or woody vegetation.
Channel modification does not include the clearing of dead or dying vegetation,
debris, or trash from the channel. Channelization is a severe form of channel
modification typically involving relocation of the existing channel (e.g.,
straightening).
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the SFHA used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the flood
plain. The uncompensated loss of natural flood plain storage can increase off-
site flood water elevations and flows.
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A REGULATORY FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE: Preconstruction
approval by DWR and the Federal Emergency Management Agency of a proposed
change to the floodway map. This preconstruction approval, pursuant to this
Section, gives assurances to the property owner that once an appropriate use is
constructed according to permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed, as
previously agreed, upon review and acceptance of as-built plans.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A letter which indicates that the
Federal Emergency Management Agency will revise base flood elevations, flood
insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or floodway as shown on an effective
Flood Hazard Boundary Map or Flood Insurance Rate Map, once the as-built plans
are submitted and approved.
CONTROL STRUCTURE: A structure designed to control the rate of flow that passes
through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water surface
elevation.
DWR: Illinois Department of Transportation, Division of Water Resources.
DAM: All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate, including:
   A.   Construction, reconstruction, repair or placement of a building or any
addition to a building.
   B.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days. Any travel trailer or recreational vehicle on site
for less than one hundred eighty (180) days must be fully licensed and ready
for highway use.
   C.   Drilling, mining, installing utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
or similar projects.
   D.   Demolition of a structure or redevelopment of a site.
   E.   Clearing of land as an adjunct of construction.
   F.   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams, or culverts;
channel modification; filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or other
nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface; storage of materials;
deposit of solid or liquid waste.
   G.   Any other activity of man that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface water, including extensive vegetation removal.
   H.   Development does not include maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities such as reroofing; resurfacing of roads when there is no increase in
elevations; or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practice that do not
involve filling, or construction of levees.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATES: A form published by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that is used to certify the elevation to which a building has been
elevated.
EROSION: The general process whereby soils are moved by flowing water or wave
action.
EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS: Organizations which are exempt from this Chapter per the
Illinois Compiled Statutes including State, Federal or local units of
government.
FEMA: Federal Emergency Management Agency and its regulations at 44 CFR 59-79
effective as of October 1, 1986. This incorporation does not include any later
editions or amendments.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the unusual
and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the flood plain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS (FIRM): A map prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that depicts the special flood hazard areas (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and flood plains and may or
may not depict floodways.
FLOOD PLAIN: The land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. Flood plains may also include detached special flood hazard areas,
ponding areas, etc. The flood plain is also known as the special flood hazard
area (SFHA). The flood plains are those lands within the jurisdiction of the
Village that are subject to inundation by the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood. The SFHAs of the Village of Hampshire, those parts of unincorporated
Kane County that lie within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village,
and those parts of unincorporated Kane County that may be annexed into the
Village, are generally identified as such on the Countywide Flood Insurance
Rate Map of Kane County, Illinois and Incorporated Areas prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated November 2, 1995.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood elevation or
100-year frequency flood plus one foot (1') of freeboard at any given location
in the SFHA.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, unknown localized
conditions, wave actions and unpredictable effects such as those caused by ice
or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on the State inventory of historic places by the
Illinois Historic Preservation Agency;
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency. (Rev. 11-89)
HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS: Engineering analyses which determine
expected flood flows and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): Letter that revises base flood or 100-year
flood zone; amends the effective Flood Hazard Boundary Map or FIRM.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): Letter that revises base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or
floodways as shown on an effective FHBM or FIRM.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a recreational vehicle.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MITIGATION: Mitigation includes those measures necessary to minimize the
negative effects which flood plain development activities might have on
mitigation including compensatory storage, soil erosion and sedimentation
control, and channel restoration.
NGVD: National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929. Reference surface set by the
National Geodetic Survey deducted from continental adjustment of all existing
adjustments in 1929.
NATURAL: When used in reference to channels means those channels formed by the
existing surface topography of the earth prior to changes made by man. A
natural stream tends to follow a meandering path; its flood plain is not
constrained by levees; the area near the bank has not been cleared, mowed or
cultivated; the stream flows over soil and geologic materials typical of the
area with no substantial alteration of the course or cross section of the
stream caused by filling or excavating. A modified channel may regain some
natural characteristics over time as the channel meanders and vegetation is re-
established. Similarly, a modified channel may be restored to more natural
conditions by man through regrading and revegetation.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after December 1,
1991.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHWM): The point on the bank or shore up to which the
presence and action of surface water is so continuous so as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized
characteristics.
PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT: A flood control project which will be operated
and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing buildings
and structures which includes a hydrologic and hydraulic study of the existing
and proposed conditions of the watershed. Nothing in this definition shall
preclude the design, engineering, construction or financing, in whole or in
part, of a flood control project by persons or parties who are not public
agencies.
PUBLIC NAVIGABLE WATERS: All streams and lakes capable of being navigated by
watercraft.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered in the State of Illinois,
under The Illinois Land Surveyors Act (225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 330/
1 through 330/49).
REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: An engineer registered in the State of
Illinois, under the Illinois Professional Engineering Act (225 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 325/1 through 325/49).
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: The channel, including on-stream lakes, and that portion
of the flood plain adjacent to a stream of watercourse as designated by DWR,
which is needed to store and convey the existing and anticipated future 100-
year frequency flood discharge with no more than a one-tenths of one foot
(0.1') increase in stage due to the loss of flood conveyance or storage, and no
more than a ten percent (10%) increase in velocities. The regulatory floodway
for Hampshire Creek Tributary within the Village of Hampshire, those parts of
unincorporated Kane County that are in the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
Village, and those parts of unincorporated Kane County that may be annexed into
the Village are designated on the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Kane
County, Illinois and Incorporated Areas prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated November 2, 1995. To locate the regulatory floodway
boundary on any site, the regulatory floodway boundary should be scaled off the
Regulatory Floodway Map and located on a site plan, using reference marks
common to both maps. Where interpretation is needed to determine the exact
location of the regulatory floodway boundary, this office should be contacted
for the interpretation.
REPAIR, REMODELING OR MAINTENANCE: Development activities which do not result
in any increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes to the
dimensions of a structure.
RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY: A retention facility stores storm water runoff
without a gravity release. A detention facility provides for storage of storm
water runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a flood or
storm.
RIVERINE SFHA: Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek, intermittent
stream, ditch, on-stream lake system or any other identified channel. This term
does not include areas subject to flooding from lakes, ponding areas, areas of
sheet flow, or other areas not subject to overbank flooding.
RUNOFF: The water derived from melting snow or rain falling on the land
surface, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or
conduits.
SEDIMENTATION: The processes that deposit soils, debris, and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or watercourses.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Any base flood area subject to flooding from
a river, creek, intermittent stream, ditch, or any other identified channel or
ponding and shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or Flood Insurance Rate Map as
Zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, A99, AH, VO, V30, VE, V, M, or E.
STRUCTURE: The results of a man-made change to the land constructed on or below
the ground, including the construction, reconstruction or placement of a
building or any addition to a building; installing a manufactured home on a
site; preparing a site for a manufactured home; or installing a travel trailer
on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, unless it is fully
licensed and ready for highway use.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either: 1) before the improvement or repair is
started, or 2) if the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. This term includes structures which were damaged whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its predamaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value before the damage occurred,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. For the purposes of this
definition "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. The term does not, however, include either: a) any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing State or local health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
safe living conditions or b) any alteration of an "historic structure" provided
that the alteration will not preclude continued designation as an "historic
structure".
TRANSITION SECTION: Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from a
narrow cross section to a wide cross section or vice versa. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-
1991; amd. Ord. 95-20, 10-19-1995)
13-1-3: PROCEDURE:
   A.   The Enforcement Official shall be responsible for fulfilling all of the
duties listed in Section
13-1-4 of this Article.
   B.   To fulfill those duties, the Enforcement Official first should use the
criteria listed in Section
13-1-5 of this Article to determine whether the development site is located
within a flood plain. Once it has been determined that a site is located within
a flood plain, the Enforcement Official must determine whether the development
site is within a flood fringe, a regulatory floodway, or within a SFHA or flood
plain on which no floodway has been identified. If the site is within a flood
fringe, the Enforcement Official shall require that the minimum requirements of
Article II be met. If the site is within a floodway, the Enforcement Official
shall require that the minimum requirements of Article III be met. If the site
is located within a SFHA or flood plain for which no detailed study has been
completed and approved, the Enforcement Official shall require that the minimum
requirements of Article IV be met.
   C.   In addition, the general requirements of Article V shall be met for all
developments meeting the requirements of Articles II, III, and IV. The
Enforcement Official shall assure that all subdivision proposals shall meet the
requirements of Article VI.
   D.   If a variance is to be granted for a proposal, the Enforcement Official
shall review the requirements of Article VII to make sure they are met. In
addition, the Enforcement Official shall complete all notification
requirements.
   E.   In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as required in
this Chapter, the Enforcement Official may take any and all actions as outlined
in Article IX. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
13-1-4: DUTIES OF THE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
The Enforcement Official shall be responsible for the general administration
and enforcement of this Chapter which shall include the following: (Ord. 91-20,
12-12-1991)
   A.   Determining The Flood Plain Designation: Check all new development
sites to determine whether they are in a special flood hazard area (SFHA),
whether they are in a floodway, flood fringe, or a flood plain which drains
more than one square mile on which a detailed study has not been conducted.
(Ord. 92-3, 6-18-1992)
   B.   Professional Engineer Review: If the development site is within a
floodway or in a flood plain which drains more that one square mile on which a
detailed study has not been conducted then the permit shall be referred to a
registered professional engineer (P.E.) under the employ or contract of the
Village for review to ensure that the development meets the requirements of
Article III. In the case of an appropriate use, the P.E. shall state in writing
that the development meets the requirements of Article III.
   C.   Dam Safety Requirements: Ensure that a DWR dam safety permit has been
issued or a letter indicating no dam safety permit is required, if the proposed
development activity includes construction of a "dam" as defined in Section
13-1-2. Regulated dams may include weirs, restrictive culverts or impoundment
structures.
   D.   Other Permit Requirements: Ensure that any and all required Federal,
State and local permits are received prior to the issuance of a flood plain
development permit.
   E.   Plan Review And Permit Issuance: Ensure that all development activities
within the SFHAs of the jurisdiction of the Village meet the requirements of
this Chapter and issue a flood plain development permit in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter and other regulations of this community when the
development meets the conditions of this Chapter.
   F.   Inspection Review: Inspect all development projects before, during and
after construction to assure proper elevation of the structure and to ensure
they comply with provisions of this Chapter.
   G.   Elevation And Floodproofing Certificates: Maintain in the permit files
an elevation certificate certifying the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of a residential or nonresidential building has been
floodproofed, using a floodproofing certificate, for all buildings subject to
article V of this chapter for public inspection and provide copies of same.
   H.   Records For Public Inspection: Maintain for public inspection and
furnish upon request base flood data, SFHA and regulatory floodway maps, copies
of federal or state permit documents, variance documentation, conditional
letter of map revision, letter of map amendment and "as built" elevation and
floodproofing or elevation and floodproofing certificates for all buildings
constructed subject to this chapter.
   I.   State Permits: Ensure that construction authorization has been granted
by the Illinois division of water resources, for all development projects
subject to articles III and IV of this chapter, unless enforcement
responsibility has been delegated to the village. Upon acceptance of this
chapter by DWR and FEMA, responsibility is hereby delegated to the village as
per 92 Illinois administrative code 708 for construction in the regulatory
floodway and floodplain when floodways have not been defined in articles III
and IV of this chapter. However, the following review approvals are not
delegated to the village and shall require review or permits from DWR:
      1.   Organizations which are exempt from this chapter, as per the
Illinois Compiled Statutes;
      2.   Department of transportation projects, "dams" or impoundment
"structures" as defined in section
13-1-2 of this article and all other state, federal or local units of
government projects, including projects of the village and county, except for
those projects meeting the requirements of section
13-3-7 of this chapter;
      3.   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, per subsection 13-3-3D5 of this chapter;
      4.   An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to subsection 13-3-
3D4 of this chapter;
      5.   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage as indicated in subsections 13-3-3D1, D2 and D8 of this
chapter;
      6.   Permit issuance of structures within or over publicly navigable
rivers, lakes and streams;
      7.   Any changes in the base flood elevation or floodway locations; and
      8.   Base flood elevation determinations where none now exist.
   J.   Cooperation With Other Agencies: Cooperation with state and federal
floodplain management agencies to improve base flood or 100-year frequency
flood and floodway data and to improve the administration of this chapter.
Submit data to DWR and the federal emergency management agency for proposed
revisions of a regulatory map. Submit reports as required for the national
flood insurance program. Notify the federal emergency management agency of any
proposed amendments to this chapter.
   K.   Promulgate Regulations: Promulgate rules and regulations as necessary
to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, subject however to
the review and approval of DWR and FEMA for any chapter changes. (Ord. 91-20,
12-12-1991)
13-1-5: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is based on the countywide flood insurance
study ("FIS") for Kane County, Illinois, and incorporated areas, prepared by
the federal emergency management agency ("FEMA") and dated November 2, 1995,
which FIS shall be and is superseded and is to be replaced by a new study
effective June 2, 2015. The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevations
shall be governed by the November 2, 1995 FIS and FIRM until June 1, 2015, and
thereafter by the new FIS and FIRM issued by FEMA and effective on June 2,
2015, and thereafter by any other revision(s) and/or amendment(s) to same.
If the base flood elevation or 100-year frequency flood elevation is not
available for a particular site, then the protection standard shall be
according to the best of existing data available in the "Illinois State Water
Survey's Flood Plain Information Repository". When a party disagrees with the
best available data, he/she may pay for the detailed engineering study needed
to replace existing data with better data and submit it to DWR and FEMA.
   A.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
Hampshire Creek tributary shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles
in the countywide flood insurance rate map ("FIRM") including territory within
the village, prepared by FEMA, and dated November 2, 1995, and shall be as
delineated on the new FIRM issued by FEMA and effective June 2, 2015, from and
after that date, and shall be as delineated in the future on such revision(s)
and amendment(s) to said FIRM as may be approved from time to time.
   B.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
those parts of unincorporated Kane County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed into the village shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the countywide FIS of Kane County,
Illinois, and incorporated areas, prepared by FEMA and dated November 2, 1995,
and shall be as delineated on the new FIS issued by FEMA and effective June 2,
2015, from and after that date, and shall be as thereafter delineated on such
amendments or revisions to such FIS and/or FIRM as may be prepared from time to
time.
   C.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for such SFHA
delineated as an "AH zone or AO zone" shall be that elevation (or depth)
delineated on the countywide FIRM of Kane County, Illinois, and incorporated
areas, prepared by FEMA and dated November 2, 1995, and delineated on the new
FIRM issued by FEMA and effective June 2, 2015, from and after that date.
   D.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each of the
remaining SFHAs delineated as an "A zone" on the countywide FIRM for Kane
County, Illinois, and incorporated areas, prepared by FEMA, and dated November
2, 1995, and delineated on the new FIRM issued by FEMA and effective June 2,
2015, from and after that date, shall be according to the best existing data
available in the "Illinois State Water Survey Flood Plain Information
Repository". When no base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation exists,
the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for a riverine SFHA shall
be determined from a backwater model, such as HEC-II, WSP-2 or a dynamic model
such as HIP. The flood flows used in the hydraulic model shall be obtained from
a hydrologic model such as HEC-I, TR-20, or HIP, or by techniques presented in
various publications prepared by the United States geological survey for
estimating peak flood discharges. Flood flows should be based on anticipated
future land use conditions in the watershed as determined from adopted local
and regional land use plans. Along any watercourses draining more than one
square mile, the above analyses shall be submitted to DWR for approval. Once
approved it must be submitted to the "Illinois State Water Survey Flood Plain
Information Repository" for filing. For a nonriverine SFHA, the base flood
elevation shall be the historic flood of record plus three feet (3'), unless
calculated by a detailed engineering study and approved by the Illinois state
water survey. (Ord. 15-06, 2-5-2015)
ARTICLE II
FLOOD FRINGE AREAS
SECTION:
13-2-1: Occupation And Use Of Flood Fringe Areas
13-2-2: Development Permit
13-2-3: Preventing Increased Damages
13-2-4: Compensatory Storage
13-2-1: OCCUPATION AND USE OF FLOOD FRINGE AREAS:
   A.   Development in and/or filling of the flood fringe will be permitted if
protection is provided against the base flood or 100-year frequency flood by
proper elevation and compensatory storage and other provisions of this Chapter
are met.
   B.   No use will be permitted which adversely affects the capacity of
drainage facilities or systems.
   C.   Developments located within the flood fringe shall meet the
requirements of this Section, along with the requirements of Article V of this
Chapter. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
13-2-2: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by State law
shall commence any development in the SFHA without first obtaining development
permit from the Village.
   A.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form provided
by the Village. The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site,
drawn to scale, showing property line dimensions and legal description for the
property and sealed by a licensed engineer, architect or land surveyor;
existing grade elevations in M.S.L., 1929 adj. datum or NGVD and all changes in
grade resulting from excavation or filling; the location and dimensions of all
buildings and additions to buildings. For all proposed buildings, the elevation
of the lowest floor (including basement) and lowest adjacent grade shall be
shown on the submitted plans and the development will be subject to the
requirements of Article V of this Chapter.
   B.   Upon receipt of a development permit application, the Village Engineer
shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown to have been
higher than the base flood elevation as of the site's first Flood Insurance
Rate Map identification is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the
requirements of this Chapter. The Village shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first Flood Insurance
Rate Map identification.
   C.   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed areas shall
be submitted. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance.
   D.   The Village Engineer shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant, copies of all other local, State and Federal permits, approvals or
permit-not-required letters that may be required and shall not issue a permit
unless all other local, State and Federal permits have been obtained. (Ord. 91-
20, 12-12-1991)
13-2-3: PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES:
   A.   No development in the flood fringe shall create a threat to public
health and safety.
   B.   If fill is being used to elevate the site above the base flood or 100-
year frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall submit sufficient data and
obtain a letter of map revision (LOMR) from FEMA for the purpose of removing
the site from the flood plain. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
13-2-4: COMPENSATORY STORAGE:
Whenever any portion of flood plain is authorized for use, the volume of space
which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the base flood
or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated for and balanced by
a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from below the base flood
or 100-year frequency flood elevation. The excavation volume shall be at least
equal to one and five-tenths (1.5) times the volume of storage lost due to the
fill or structure. In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation
shall be made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied. All
flood plain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All flood plain storage
lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be replaced above the
existing 10-year flood elevation. All such excavations shall be constructed to
drain freely and openly to the watercourse. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
ARTICLE III
IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS
SECTION:
13-3-1: Occupation And Use Of Identified Floodways
13-3-2: Development Permit
13-3-3: Preventing Increased Damages And A List Of Appropriate Uses
13-3-4: State Review
13-3-5: Other Permits
13-3-6: Dam Safety Permits
13-3-7: Activities Permitted Without Engineer's Review
13-3-1: OCCUPATION AND USE OF IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS:
This Article applies to proposed development, redevelopment, site modification
or building modification within a regulatory floodway.
   A.   The regulatory floodway for Hampshire Creek and Hampshire Creek
Tributary shall be as delineated on the regulatory floodway maps designated by
DWR and referenced in Section
13-1-2 of this Chapter.
   B.   Only those uses and structures will be permitted which meet the
criteria in this Article.
   C.   All floodway modifications shall be the minimum necessary to accomplish
the purpose of the project.
   D.   The development shall also meet the requirements of Article V of this
Chapter. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
13-3-2: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by State law
shall commence any development in a floodway without first obtaining a
development permit from the Village.
   A.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form provided
by the Village. The application shall include the following information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant.
      2.   Site location (including legal description) of the property, drawn
to scale, on the regulatory floodway map, indicating whether it is proposed to
be in an incorporated or unincorporated area.
      3.   Name of stream or body of water affected.
      4.   Description of proposed activity.
      5.   Statement of purpose of proposed activity.
      6.   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity.
      7.   Name and mailing address of the owner of the subject property if
different from the applicant.
      8.   Signature of applicant or the applicant's agent.
      9.   If the applicant is a corporation, the president or other authorized
officer shall sign the application form.
      10.   If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form.
      11.   If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign the
application, and a disclosure affidavit shall be filed with the application,
identifying each beneficiary of the trust by name and address and defining the
respective interest therein.
      12.   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as a
minimum:
         a.   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow.
         b.   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or
NGVD, adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control
easements, location of any channels and any existing or future access roads,
distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the proposed
construction is near a commercially navigable body of water), regulatory
floodway limit, flood plain limit, specifications and dimensions of any
proposed channel modifications, location and orientation of cross sections,
north arrow, and graphic or numerical scale.
         c.   Cross section views of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevation, normal water
elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and graphic or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical).
         d.   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed
areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance.
         e.   A copy of the regulatory floodway map, marked to reflect any
proposed change in the regulatory floodway location.
      13.   Any and all other local, State and Federal permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development.
      14.   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the permit criteria of Section
13-3-3 of this Article.
      15.   If the regulatory floodway delineation, base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation will change due to the proposed project, the
application will not be considered complete until DWR has indicated conditional
approval of the regulatory floodway map change. No structures may be built
until a letter of map revision has been approved by FEMA.
      16.   The application for a structure shall be accompanied by drawings of
the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions and existing ground
elevations and all changes in grade resulting from any proposed excavation or
filing, and flood plain and floodway limits; sealed by a registered
professional engineer, licensed architect or registered land surveyor; the
location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings; and the
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed buildings
subject to the requirements of Article V of this Chapter.
      17.   If the proposed project involves a channel modification, the
applicant shall submit the following information:
         a.   A discussion of the purpose of and need for the proposed work;
         b.   A discussion of the feasibility of using alternative locations or
methods to accomplish the purpose of the proposed work;
         c.   An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts the
project would have on the physical and biological conditions of the body of
water affected;
         d.   An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts each
feasible alternative identified in subsection 13-3-3D4a would have on the
physical and biological conditions of the body of water affected; and
         e.   An analysis of the impacts of the proposed project, considering
cumulative effects on the physical and biological conditions of the body of
water affected.
   B.   The Village Engineer shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other local, State, and Federal permits and approvals
that may be required for this type of activity.
   C.   The Village shall not issue the development permit unless all required
Federal and State permits have been obtained. A registered professional
engineer, under the employ or contract of the Village shall review and approve
applications reviewed under this Section. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
13-3-3: PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES AND A LIST OF APPROPRIATE USES:
   A.   The only development in a floodway which will be allowed is an
appropriate use, which will not cause a rise in the base flood elevation, and
which will not create a damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood
heights or velocity or be a threat to public health and safety and welfare or
impair the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of the floodway or
channel, or permanently impair existing water quality or aquatic habitat.
   B.   Construction impacts shall be minimized by appropriate mitigation
methods as called for in this construction.
   C.   Only those appropriate uses listed in 92 Illinois Administrative Code
708 will be allowed.
      1.   Appropriate uses do not include the construction or placement of any
new structures, fill, building additions, building on stilts, excavation or
channel modifications done to accommodate otherwise nonappropriate uses in the
floodway, fencing (including landscaping or planting designed to act as a
fence) and storage of materials except as specifically defined above as an
appropriate use.
      2.   The approved appropriate uses are as follows:
         a.   Flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public works or
private improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding, erosion, or
water quality or habitat for fish and wildlife.
         b.   Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring
access to, the water or shoreline, such as pumping and treatment facilities,
and facilities and improvements related to recreational boating, commercial
shipping and other functionally water dependent uses.
         c.   Storm and sanitary sewer outfalls.
         d.   Underground and overhead utilities.
         e.   Recreational facilities such as playing fields and trail systems
including any related fencing (at least 50% open when viewed from any one
direction) built parallel to the direction of flood flows, and including open
air pavilions.
         f.   Bridges, culverts, roadways, sidewalks, railways, runways and
taxiways and any modification hereto.
         g.   Parking lots and any modification thereto (where depth of
flooding at the 100-year frequency flood event will not exceed 1.0') and
aircraft parking aprons built at or below ground elevation.
         h.   Regulatory floodway regrading, without fill, to create a positive
nonerosive slope toward a watercourse.
         i.   Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful
structures including the construction of watertight window wells, elevating
structures, or construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or
industrial principal structures where the outside toe of the floodwall shall be
no more than ten feet (10') away from the exterior wall of the existing
structure, and which are not considered substantial improvements to the
structure.
         j.   In the case of damaged or replacement buildings, reconstruction
or repairs made to a building that are valued at less than fifty percent (50%)
of the market value of the building before it was damaged or replaced, and
which do not increase the outside dimensions of the building.
         k.   Additions to existing building as above the BFE that do not
increase the building's footprint and are valued at less than fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the building.
   D.   Within the regulatory floodway as identified on the regulatory floodway
maps designated by DWR, the construction of an appropriate use, will be
considered permissible provided that the proposed project meets the following
engineering and mitigation criteria and is so stated in writing with supporting
plans, calculations and data by a registered professional engineer and provided
that any structure meets the protection requirements of Article V of this
Chapter:
      1.   Preservation of Flood Conveyance, so as Not to Increase Flood Stages
Upstream: For appropriate uses other than bridge or culvert crossings, on-
stream structures or dams, all effective regulatory floodway conveyance lost
due to the project will be replaced for all flood events up to and including
the 100-year frequency flood. In calculating effective regulatory floodway
conveyance, the following factors shall be taken into consideration: (Ord. 91-
20, 12-12-1991)
         a.   Regulatory floodway conveyance, 'K' = 1.486 AR2/3 n
(Ord. 92-3, 6-18-1992)
where "n" is Manning's roughness factor, "A" is the effective area of the cross
section, and "R" is the ratio of the area to the wetted perimeter. (See Open
Channel Hydraulics, Ven Te Chow, 1959, McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York.)
         b.   The same Manning's "n" value shall be used for both existing and
proposed conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement with Federal,
State, or local unit of government can assure the proposed conditions will be
maintained or the land cover is changing from a vegetative to a nonvegetative
land cover.
         c.   Transition sections shall be provided and used in calculations of
effective regulatory floodway conveyance. The following expansion and
contraction ratios shall be used unless an applicant's engineer can prove to
DWR through engineer calculations or model tests that more abrupt transitions
may be used with the same efficiency:
            (1)   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot (1') horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length.
            (2)   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow
section, the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of
one foot (1') horizontal for every one foot (1') horizontal of the flooded
stream's length.
            (3)   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction,
a minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of
stream length shall be used.
            (4)   Transition sections shall be provided between cross sections
with rapid expansions and contraction and when meeting the regulatory floodway
delineation on adjacent properties.
            (5)   All cross sections used in the calculations shall be located
perpendicular to flood flows.
      2.   Preservation Of Floodway Storage So As Not To Increase Downstream
Flooding: Compensatory storage shall be provided for any regulatory floodway
storage lost due to the proposed work from the volume of fill or structures
placed and the impact of any related flood control projects. Compensatory
storage for fill or structures shall be equal to at least one and five-tenths
(1.5) times the volume of flood plain storage lost. Artificially created
storage lost due to a reduction in head loss behind a bridge shall not be
required to be replaced. The compensatory regulatory floodway storage shall be
placed between the proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year
flood elevation. All regulatory floodway storage lost below the existing 10-
year flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood
elevation. All regulatory floodway storage lost above the existing 10-year
flood elevation shall be replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the
watercourse. If the compensatory storage will not be placed at the location of
the proposed construction, the applicant's engineer shall demonstrate to DWR
through a determination of flood discharges and water surface elevations that
the compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent. Finally, there shall be
no reduction in floodway surface area as a result of a floodway modification,
unless such modification is necessary to reduce flooding at existing structure.
      3.   Preservation Of Floodway Velocities So As Not To Increase Stream
Erosion Or Flood Heights: For all appropriate uses, except bridges or culverts
or on-stream structures, the proposed work will not result in an increase in
the average channel or regulatory floodway velocities or stage, for all flood
events up to and including the 100-year frequency event. However in the case of
bridges or culverts or on-stream structures built for the purpose of backing up
water in the stream during normal or flood flows, velocities may be increased
at the structure site if scour, erosion and sedimentation will be avoided by
the use of riprap or other design measures.
      4.   Construction Of New Bridges Or Culvert Crossings And Roadway
Approaches: The proposed structure shall not result in an increase of upstream
flood stages greater than one-tenth foot (0.1') when compared to the existing
conditions for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency
event; or the upstream flood stage increases will be contained within the
channel banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks)
such as within the design protection grade of existing levees or flood walls or
within recorded flood easements. If the proposed construction will increase
upstream flood stages greater than one-tenth foot (0.1'), the developer must
contact DWR, Dam Safety Section for a dam safety permit or waiver.
         a.   The engineering analysis of upstream flood stages must be
calculated using the flood study flows, and corresponding flood elevations for
tailwater conditions for the flood study specified in Section
13-1-5 of this Chapter. Culverts must be analyzed using the U.S. DOT FHWA
Hydraulic Chart for the Selection of Highway Culverts. Bridges must be analyzed
using the U.S. DOT Federal Highway Administration Hydraulics of Bridge
Waterways calculation procedures.
         b.   Lost floodway storage must be compensated for per subsection 13-
3-3D2 herein.
         c.   Velocity increases must be mitigated per subsection 13-3-3D3
herein.
         d.   If the crossing is proposed over a public water that is used for
recreational or commercial navigation, a Department of Transportation permit
must be received.
         e.   The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the bridge
showing the existing condition and proposed regulatory profile must be
submitted to DWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required by this Section.
         f.   All excavations for the construction of the crossing shall be
designed per subsection 13-3-3D8 herein.
      5.   Reconstruction Or Modification Of Existing Bridges, Culverts, And
Approach Roads:
         a.   The bridge or culvert and roadway approach reconstruction or
modification shall be constructed with no more than one-tenth foot (0.1')
increase in backwater over the existing flood profile for all flood frequencies
up to and including the 100-year event, if the existing structure is not a
source of flood damage.
         b.   If the existing bridge or culvert and roadway approach is a
source of flood damage to buildings or structures in the upstream flood plain,
the applicant's engineer shall evaluate the feasibility of redesigning the
structure to reduce the existing backwater, taking into consideration the
effects on flood stages on upstream and downstream properties.
         c.   The determination as to whether or not the existing crossing is a
source of flood damage and should be redesigned must be prepared in accordance
with the Department of Transportation Rules 92 Illinois Administrative Code 708
(Floodway Construction in Northeastern Illinois) and submitted to the Division
for review and concurrence before a permit is issued.
      6.   On-Stream Structures Built for the Purpose of Backing Up Water: Any
increase in upstream flood stages greater than zero foot (0.0') when compared
to the existing conditions, for all flood events up to and including the 100-
year frequency event shall be contained within the channel banks (or within
existing vertical extensions of the channel banks) such as within the design
protection grade of existing levees or flood walls or within recorded flood
easements. A permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must be
obtained from DWR, Dam Safety Section for a dam safety permit or waiver for any
structure built for the purpose of backing up water in the stream during normal
or flood flow. All dams and impoundment structures as defined in Section
13-1-2 of this Chapter shall meet the permitting requirements of 92 Illinois
Administrative Code 702 (Construction and Maintenance of Dams). If the proposed
activity involves a modification of the channel or floodway to accommodate an
impoundment, it shall be demonstrated that:
         a.   The impoundment is determined to be in the public interest by
providing flood control, public recreation, or regional storm water detention.
         b.   The impoundment will not prevent the migration of indigenous fish
species, which require access to upstream areas as part of their life cycle,
such as for spawning.
         c.   The impoundment will not cause or contribute to degrade water
quality or habitat conditions. Impoundment design should include gradual bank
slopes, appropriate bank stabilization measures, and a pre-sedimentation basin.
         d.   A nonpoint source control plan has been implemented in the
upstream watershed to control the effects of sediment runoff as well as
minimize the input of nutrients, oil and grease, metals, and other pollutants.
If there is more than one municipality in the upstream watershed, the
municipality in which the impoundment is constructed should coordinate with
upstream municipalities to ensure comprehensive watershed control.
         e.   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this
Article III.
      7.   Floodproofing Of Existing Habitable, Residential And Commercial
Structures: If construction is required beyond the outside dimensions of the
existing building, the outside perimeter of the floodproofing construction
shall be placed no further than ten feet (10') from the outside of the
building. Compensation of lost storage and conveyance will not be required for
floodproofing activities.
      8.   Excavation In The Floodway: When excavation is proposed in the
design of bridges and culvert openings, including the modifications to and
replacement of existing bridge and culvert structures, or to compensate for
lost conveyance for other appropriate uses, transition sections shall be
provided for the excavation. The following expansion and contraction ratios
shall be used unless an applicant's engineer can prove to DWR through
engineering calculations or model tests that more abrupt transitions may be
used with the same efficiency:
         a.   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider section,
the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one foot (1')
horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length.
         b.   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section,
the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot
(1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's length.
         c.   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a
minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of stream
length shall be used.
         d.   Erosion/scour protection shall be provided inland upstream and
downstream of the transition sections.
      9.   If the proposed activity involves a channel modification, it shall
be demonstrated that:
         a.   There is no practicable alternative to the activity which would
accomplish its purpose with less impact to the natural conditions of the body
of water affected. Possible alternatives include levees, bank stabilization,
floodproofing of existing structures, removal of structures for the flood
plain, clearing the channel, high flow channel, or the establishment of a
stream side buffer strip or green belt. Channel modification is acceptable if
the purpose is to restore natural conditions and improve water quality and fish
and wildlife habitat.
         b.   Water quality, habitat, and other natural functions would be
significantly improved by the modification and no significant habitat area may
be destroyed, or the impacts are offset by the replacement of an equivalent
degree of natural resource values.
         c.   The activity has been planned and designed and will be
constructed in a way which will minimize its adverse impacts on the natural
conditions of the body of water affected, consistent with the following
criteria:
            (1)   The physical characteristics of the modified channel shall
match as closely as possible those of the existing channel in length, cross
section, slope and sinuosity. If the existing channel has been previously
modified, restoration of more natural physical conditions should be
incorporated into channel modification design, where practical.
            (2)   Hydraulically effective transitions shall be provided at both
the upstream and downstream ends of the project, designed such that they will
prevent erosion.
            (3)   One-sided construction of a channel shall be used when
feasible. Removal of streamside (riparian) vegetation should be limited to one
side of the channel, where possible, to preserve the shading and stabilization
effects of the vegetation.
            (4)   Clearing of vegetation shall be limited to that which is
essential for construction of the channel.
            (5)   Channel banks shall be constructed with a side slope no
steeper than three to one (3:1) horizontal to vertical, wherever practicable.
Natural vegetation and gradual side slopes are the preferred methods for bank
stabilization. Where high velocities or sharp bends necessitate the use of
alternative stabilization measures, natural rock or riprap are preferred
materials. Artificial materials such as concrete, gabions, or construction
rubble should be avoided unless there are no practicable alternatives.
            (6)   All disturbed areas associated with the modification shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized as soon as possible upon completion of
construction. Erosion blanket or an equivalent material shall be required to
stabilize disturbed channel banks prior to establishment of the vegetative
cover.
            (7)   If the existing channel contains considerable bottom
diversity such as deep pools, riffles, and other similar features, such
features shall be provided in the new channel. Spawning and nesting areas and
flow characteristics compatible with fish habitat shall also be established,
where appropriate.
            (8)   A sediment basin shall be installed at the downstream end of
the modification to reduce sedimentation and degradation of downstream water
quality.
            (9)   New or relocated channels should be built in the dry and all
items of construction, including vegetation, should be completed prior to
diversion of water into the new channel.
            (10)   There shall be no increases in stage or velocity as the
channel enters or leaves the project site for any frequency flood unless
necessitated by a public flood control project or unless such an increase is
justified as part of a habitat improvement or erosion control project.
            (11)   Unless the modification is for a public flood control
project, the shall be no reduction in the volume of flood water storage outside
the floodway as a result of the modification.
         d.   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this
Article III.
      10.   Seeding And Stabilization Plan: For all activities located in a
floodway, a seeding and stabilization plan shall be submitted by the applicant.
      11.   Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Measures: For all activities in the
floodway, including grading, filling, and excavation, in which there is
potential for erosion of exposed soil, soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures shall be employed consistent with the following criteria:
         a.   The construction area shall be minimized to preserve the maximum
vegetation possible. Construction shall be scheduled to minimize the time soil
is exposed and unprotected. In no case shall the existing natural vegetation be
destroyed, removed, or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days prior to the
initiation of improvements.
         b.   Temporary and/or permanent soil stabilization shall be applied to
denuded areas as soon as possible. As a minimum, soil stabilization shall be
provided within fifteen (15) days after final grade is reached on any portion
of the site, and within fifteen (15) days to denuded areas which may not be at
final grade but will remain undisturbed for longer than sixty (60) days.
         c.   Sedimentation control measures shall be installed before any
significant grading or filling is initiated on the site to prevent the movement
of eroded sediments off site or into the channel. Potential sediment control
devices include filter fences, straw bale fences, check dams, diversion
ditches, and sediment basins.
         d.   A vegetated buffer strip of at least twenty five feet (25') in
width shall be preserved and/or re-established, where possible, along existing
channels (see subsection 13-3-3D16 herein). Construction vehicle use of
channels shall be minimized. Temporary stream crossings shall be constructed,
where necessary, to minimize erosion. Necessary construction in or along
channels shall be restabilized immediately.
         e.   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be designed
and implemented consistent with "Procedures and Standards for Urban Soil
Erosion and Sedimentation Control in Illinois" (1988) also known as the "Green
Book" and "Standards and Specifications for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control"
(IEPA, 1987).
      12.   Public Flood Control Projects: For public flood control projects,
the permitting requirements of this Section will be considered met if the
applicant can demonstrate to DWR through hydraulic and hydrologic calculations
that the proposed project will not singularly or cumulatively result in
increased flood heights outside the project right of way or easements for all
flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
      13.   General Criteria For Analysis Of Flood Elevations:
         a.   The flood profiles, flows and floodway data in the regulatory
floodway study, referenced in Section
13-1-5 of this Chapter, must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If
the study data appears to be in error or conditions have changed, DWR shall be
contacted for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base conditions data
to use.
         b.   If the 100-year regulatory floodway elevation at the site of the
proposed construction is affected by backwater from a downstream receiving
stream with a larger drainage area, the proposed construction shall be shown to
meet the requirements of this Section for the 100-year frequency flood
elevations of the regulatory floodway conditions and conditions with the
receiving stream at normal water elevations.
         c.   If the applicant learns from DWR, local governments, or a private
owner that a downstream restrictive bridge or culvert is scheduled to be
removed, reconstructed, modified, or a regional flood control project is
scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the next five
(5) years, the proposed construction shall be analyzed and shown to meet the
requirements of this Section for both the existing conditions and the expected
flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control project is
built.
      14.   Conditional Letter Of Map Revision: If the appropriate use would
result in a change in the regulatory floodway location or the 100-year
frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall submit to DWR and to FEMA all
the information, calculations and documents necessary to be issued a
conditional regulatory floodway map revision and receive from DWR a conditional
approval of the regulatory floodway change before a permit is issued. However,
the final regulatory floodway map will not be changed by DWR until as-built
plans or record drawings are submitted and accepted by FEMA and DWR. In the
case of nongovernment projects, the Municipality in incorporated areas and the
County in unincorporated areas shall concur with the proposed conditional
regulatory floodway map revision before DWR approval can be given. No further
development activities shall take place until a final letter of map revision
(LOMR) is issued by FEMA and DWR.
      15.   Professional Engineer's Supervision: All engineering analyses shall
be performed by or under the supervision of a registered professional engineer.
      16.   For all activities in the floodway involving construction within
twenty five feet (25') of the channel, the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   A natural vegetation buffer strip shall be preserved within at
least twenty five feet (25') of the ordinary high water mark of the channel.
         b.   Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during the
construction of an appropriate use, a vegetated buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction.
         c.   The use of native riparian vegetation is preferred in the buffer
strip. Access through this buffer strip shall be provided, when necessary, for
stream maintenance purposes.
   E.   After receipt of conditional approval of the regulatory floodway change
and issuance of a permit and a conditional letter of map revision, construction
as necessary to change the regulatory floodway designation may proceed but no
buildings or structures or other construction that is not an appropriate use
may be placed in that area until the regulatory floodway map is changed and a
final letter of map revision is received. The regulatory floodway map will be
revised upon acceptance and concurrence by DWR and FEMA of the "as built"
plans. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
13-3-4: STATE REVIEW:
For those projects listed below located in a regulatory floodway, the following
criteria shall be submitted to DWR for their review and concurrence prior to
the issuance of a permit:
   A.   DWR will review an engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to a
proposed bridge pursuant to subsection 13-3-3D4 of this Article.
   B.   DWR will review an engineer's determination that an existing bridge or
culvert crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating
the proposed flood profile, pursuant to subsection 13-3-3D5 of this Article.
   C.   The DWR will review alternative transition sections and hydraulically
equivalent storage pursuant to subsection 13-3-3D1, D2 and D8 of this Article.
   D.   The DWR will review and approve prior to the start of construction any
Department projects, dams (as defined in Section
13-1-2 of this Chapter) and all other State and Federal or local units of
government projects, including projects of the Municipality or County. (Ord.
91-20, 12-12-1991)
13-3-5: OTHER PERMITS:
In addition to the other requirements of this Chapter, a development permit for
a site located in a floodway shall not be issued unless the applicant first
obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is not required from
DWR, issued pursuant to Illinois Revised Statutes, chapter 19, section 52 et
seq. No permit from DWR shall be required if the Division has delegated this
responsibility to the Village. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
13-3-6: DAM SAFETY PERMITS:
Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of a dam as
defined in Section
13-1-2 of this Chapter, per 92 Illinois Administrative Code 702 (Rules for
Construction of Dams) shall obtain an Illinois Division of Water Resources dam
safety permit prior to the start of construction of a dam. If the Enforcement
Officer finds a dam that does not have a DWR permit he shall immediately notify
the Dam Safety Section of the Division of Water Resources. If the Enforcement
Officer finds a dam which is believed to be in unsafe condition, he shall
immediately notify the owner of the dam, DWR, Dam Safety Section in Springfield
and the Illinois Emergency Services and Disaster Agency (ESDA). (Ord. 91-20,
12-12-1991)
13-3-7: ACTIVITIES PERMITTED WITHOUT ENGINEER'S REVIEW:
The following activities may be permitted without a registered professional
engineer's review. Such activities shall still meet the other requirements of
this Chapter, including the mitigation requirements:
   A.   Underground and overhead utilities that:
      1.   Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations; or
      2.   Do not require the placement of above ground structures in the
floodway; or
      3.   In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the pipe or
encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing stream
bed; and
      4.   In the case of overhead utilities, no supporting towers are placed
in the watercourse and all such towers are designed in such a fashion as not to
catch debris.
   B.   Storm and sanitary sewer outfalls that:
      1.   Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural
bank slope; and
      2.   Do not result in an increase in ground elevation; and
      3.   Are designed so as not to cause stream erosion at the outfall
location.
   C.   Construction of sidewalks, athletic fields (excluding fences), properly
anchored playground equipment and patios at grade.
   D.   Construction of shoreline and streambank protection that:
      1.   Does not exceeds one thousand feet (1,000') in length.
      2.   Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of bank.
      3.   Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross-sectional area of
the stream channel or bank of the lake.
      4.   Vegetation stabilization and gradual side slopes are the preferred
mitigation methods for existing erosion problems. Where high channel
velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use of alternative
stabilization measures, natural rock or riprap are preferred materials.
Artificial materials such as concrete, construction rubble, and gabions should
be avoided unless there are no practicable alternatives.
   E.   Temporary stream crossings in which:
      1.   The approach roads will be one-half foot (1/2') or less above
natural grade.
      2.   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing up the
water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile or
outfall invert.
      3.   The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least two feet
(2') below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall be
nonerosive material, such as riprap or gravel.
      4.   All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise stabilized as
soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of construction.
      5.   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed within one
year after authorization. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
ARTICLE IV
FLOODWAY NOT IDENTIFIED
SECTION:
13-4-1: Occupation And Use Of SFHA Areas Where Floodways Are Not Identified
13-4-2: Development Permit
13-4-3: Preventing Increased Damages
13-4-4: Other Standards
13-4-5: Dam Safety Permits
13-4-6: Activities Permitted Without Engineer's Review
13-4-7: Capacity
13-4-8: Compensatory Storage
13-4-1: OCCUPATION AND USE OF SFHA AREAS WHERE FLOODWAYS ARE NOT IDENTIFIED:
In SFHA or flood plains, (including AO Zones, AH Zones or Un-numbered A Zones)
where no floodways have been identified and no base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevations have been established by FEMA, and draining more than a square
mile, no development shall be permitted unless the cumulative effect of the
proposals, when combined with all other existing and anticipated uses and
structures, shall not significantly impede or increase the flow and passage of
the floodwaters nor significantly increase the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
13-4-2: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body, not exempted by
State law, shall commence any development in a SFHA or flood plain without
first obtaining a development permit from the Village.
      1.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the Village.
      2.   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site, drawn
to scale showing property line dimensions; and existing grade elevations and
all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling, sealed by a licensed
engineer, architect or surveyor; the location and dimensions of all buildings
and additions to buildings; and the elevation of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the requirements of Article V of
this Chapter.
      3.   The application for a development permit shall also include the
following information:
         a.   A detailed description of the proposed activity, its purpose, and
intended use.
         b.   Site location (including legal description of the property, drawn
to scale, on the regulatory floodway maps, indicating whether it is proposed to
be in an incorporated or unincorporated area.
         c.   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity.
         d.   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as
a minimum:
            (1)   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
            (2)   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or
NGVD, adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control
easements, distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the
proposed construction is near a commercially navigable body of water), flood
plain limit, location and orientation of cross sections, north arrow, and
graphical or numerical scale;
            (3)   Cross section views of the project and engineering study
reach showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions
of the work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal
water elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and graphical or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical); and
            (4)   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed
areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization of a responsible party to ensure post-
construction maintenance.
         e.   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the criteria of Section
13-4-3 of this Article.
         f.   Any and all other local, State and Federal permits or approvals
that may be required for this type of development.
   B.   Based on the best available existing data according to the Illinois
State Water Survey's Flood Plain Information Repository, the Village Engineer
shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation. Should no elevation information exist for the site, the
developer's engineer shall calculate the elevation according to subsection 13-
1-5D of this Chapter. Any development located on land that can be shown to have
been higher than the base flood elevation as of the site's first Flood
Insurance Rate Map identification is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not
subject to the requirements of this Chapter. The Village Engineer shall
maintain documentation of the existing ground elevation at the development site
and certification that this ground elevation existed prior to the date of the
site's first Flood Insurance Rate Map identification.
   C.   The Village Engineer shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all the local, State and Federal permits, approvals or
permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
Village shall not issue the development permit unless all required local, State
and Federal permits have been obtained. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
13-4-3: PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES:
No development in the SFHA, where a floodway has not been determined, shall
create a damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity
or threat to public health, safety and welfare or impair the natural hydrologic
and hydraulic functions of the floodway or channel, or impair existing water
quality or aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be minimized by
appropriate mitigation methods as called for in this Chapter. (Ord. 91-20, 12-
12-1991)
13-4-4: OTHER STANDARDS:
Within all riverine SFHAs where the floodway has not been determined, the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   The developer shall have a registered professional engineer state in
writing and show through supporting plans, calculations, and data that the
project meets the engineering requirements of subsections 13-3-3D1 through D12
for the entire flood plain as calculated under the provisions of subsection 13-
1-5D of this Chapter. As an alternative, the developer should have an
engineering study performed to determine a floodway and submit that engineering
study to DWR for acceptance as a regulatory floodway. Upon acceptance of the
floodway by the Department, the developer shall then demonstrate that the
project meets the requirements of Article III of this Chapter for the
regulatory floodway. The floodway shall be defined according to the definition
in Section
13-1-2 of this Chapter.
   B.   A development permit shall not be issued unless the applicant first
obtains a permit from DWR or written documentation that a permit is not
required from DWR.
   C.   No permit from DWR shall be required if the Division has delegated
permit responsibility to the Village per 92 Illinois Administrative Code, part
708 for regulatory floodways, per DWR Statewide permit entitled "Construction
in Flood Plains with No Designated Floodways in Northeastern Illinois". (Ord.
91-20, 12-12-1991)
13-4-5: DAM SAFETY PERMITS:
Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of dam or an on-
stream structure to impound water as defined in Section
13-1-2 of this Chapter shall obtain an Illinois Division of Water Resources dam
safety permit or letter indicating a permit is not required prior to the start
of construction of a dam. If the Enforcement Officer finds a dam that does not
have a DWR permit he shall immediately notify the Dam Safety Section of the
Division of Water Resources. If the Enforcement Officer finds a dam which is
believed to be in unsafe condition, he shall immediately notify the owner of
the dam and the Illinois Emergency Services and Disaster Agency (ESDA), and the
DWR, Dam Safety Section, in Springfield. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
13-4-6: ACTIVITIES PERMITTED WITHOUT ENGINEER'S REVIEW:
The following activities may be permitted without a registered professional
engineer's review or calculation of a base flood elevation and regulatory
floodway. Such activities shall still meet the other requirements of this
Chapter:
   A.   Underground and overhead utilities that:
      1.   Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations; or
      2.   Do not require the placement of above ground structures in the
floodway; or
      3.   In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the pipe or
encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing streambed;
and
      4.   In the case of overhead utilities, no supporting towers are placed
in the watercourse and any such towers are designed in such a fashion as not to
catch debris.
   B.   Storm and sanitary sewer outfalls that:
      1.   Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural
bank slope; and
      2.   Do not result in an increase in ground elevation; and
      3.   Are designed so as not to cause stream bank erosion at the outfall
location.
   C.   Construction of shoreline and streambed protection that:
      1.   Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length or two (2)
cubic yards per lineal foot of streambed.
      2.   Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of bank.
      3.   Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross-sectional area of
the stream channel by more than ten percent (10%).
      4.   Vegetative stabilization and gradual side slopes are the preferred
mitigation methods for existing erosion problems. Where high channel
velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use of alternative
stabilization measures, natural rock or riprap are preferred materials.
Artificial materials such as concrete, construction rubble, and gabions should
be avoided unless there are no practicable alternatives.
   D.   Temporary stream crossings in which:
      1.   The approach roads will be one-half foot (1/2') or less above
natural grade.
      2.   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing up the
water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile or
outfall invert.
      3.   The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least two feet
(2') below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall be
nonerosive material, such as riprap or gravel.
      4.   All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise stabilized as
soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of construction.
      5.   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed within one
year after authorization.
   E.   The construction of light poles, sign posts and similar structures.
   F.   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields (excluding
fences), patios and similar surfaces which are built at grade.
   G.   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures such
as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports built at or below existing
grade that would not obstruct the flow of flood water.
   H.   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding seventy (70)
square feet in size, nor ten feet (10') in any one dimension (e.g., animal
shelters and tool sheds).
   I.   The construction of additions to existing buildings which do not
increase the first floor area by more than twenty percent (20%), which are
located on the upstream or downstream side of the existing building, and which
do not extend beyond the sides of the existing building that are parallel to
the flow of flood waters.
   J.   Minor maintenance dredging of a stream channel where:
      1.   The affected length of stream is less than one thousand feet
(1,000').
      2.   The work is confined to re-establishing flows in natural stream
channels.
      3.   The cross-sectional area of the dredged channel conforms to that of
the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-
1991)
13-4-7: CAPACITY:
The flood carrying capacity within any altered or relocated watercourse shall
be maintained. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
13-4-8: COMPENSATORY STORAGE:
Whenever any portion of a flood plain is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated for and
balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from below
the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation. The excavation volume
shall be at least equal to one and five-tenths (1.5) times the volume of
storage lost due to the fill or structure. In the case of streams and
watercourses, such excavation shall be made opposite or adjacent to the areas
so filled or occupied. All flood plain storage lost below the existing 10-year
flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
All flood plain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall
be replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such excavations
shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse. (Ord. 91-
20, 12-12-1991)
ARTICLE V
PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
13-5-1: Permitting Requirements Applicable To All Flood Plain Areas
13-5-1: PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOOD PLAIN AREAS:
In addition to the requirements found in Articles II, III, and IV of this
Chapter for development in flood fringes, regulatory floodways, and SFHA or
flood plains where no floodways have been identified (Zones A, A0, AH, AE, A1-
A30, A99, VO, V1-30, VE, V, M or E), the following requirements shall be met:
   A.   Public Health Standards:
      1.   No developments in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable
liquids, pollutants, or other hazardous or toxic materials below the FPE.
      2.   New and replacement water supply systems, wells, sanitary sewer
lines and on-site waste disposal systems may be permitted providing all
manholes or other above ground openings located below the FPE are watertight.
   B.   Carrying Capacity And Notification: For all projects involving channel
modification, fill, or stream maintenance (including levees), the flood
carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be maintained. In addition, the
Village shall notify adjacent communities in writing thirty (30) days prior to
the issuance of a permit for the alternative or relocation of the watercourse.
   C.   Protecting Buildings: All buildings located within a 100-year flood
plain also known as a SFHA, shall be protected from flood damage below the
flood protection elevation:
      1.   However, existing buildings located within a regulatory floodway
shall also meet the more restrictive appropriate use standards included in
Article III of this Chapter.
      2.   This building protection criteria applies to the following
situations:
         a.   Construction or placement of a new building;
         b.   A structural alteration to an existing building that either
increases the first floor area by more than twenty percent (20%) or the
building's market value by more the fifty percent (50%), such increase to be
figured cumulatively, commencing with any alteration which takes place after
April 1, 1990;
         c.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This building protection requirement
does not apply to returning a mobile home to the same site it lawfully occupied
before it was removed to avoid flood damage; and
         d.   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days.
   D.   This building protection requirement may be met by one of the following
methods:
      1.   A residential or nonresidential building, when allowed, may be
constructed on permanent land fill in accordance with the following:
         a.   The lowest floor, (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         b.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot (1')
deep before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation of the building before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
The top of the fill shall be above the flood protection elevation. However, the
ten foot (10') minimum may be waived if a structural engineer certifies an
alternative method to protect the building from damages due to hydrostatic
pressures. The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour. The fill
shall not adversely affect the flow or surface drainage from or onto
neighboring properties.
      2.   A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following:
         a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl space,
stilts, piles, walls, or other foundation that is permanently open to flood
waters and not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures of the base flood or
100-year frequency flood. The permanent openings shall be no more than one foot
(1') above grade, and consist of a minimum of two (2) openings. The openings
must have a total net area of not less than one square inch for every one
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation.
         b.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris.
         c.   All areas below the flood protection elevation shall be
constructed of materials resistant to flood damage. The lowest floor (including
basement) and all electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at or above the
flood protection elevation. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone
lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities may be
located below the flood protection elevation.
         d.   The areas below the flood protection elevation may only be used
for the parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement.
         e.   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement by being tied down in accordance with the Rules
and Regulations for the Illinois Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77
Illinois Administrative Code 870.
         f.   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers shall be required to
meet the elevation and anchoring requirements of subsection 13-5-1D2d above
unless:
            (1)   They are on site for less than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days; and
            (2)   They are fully licensed and ready for highway use.
            (3)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utility and service devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
      3.   Only a nonresidential building may be structurally dry floodproofed
(in lieu of elevation) provided that a registered professional engineer shall
certify that the building has been structurally dry floodproofed below the
flood protection elevation, the structure and attendant utility facilities are
watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood. The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of
buoyancy, and impacts from debris or ice. Floodproofing measures shall be
operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity. (Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.)
      4.   Nonconforming structures located in a regulatory floodway may remain
in use, but may not be enlarged, replaced or structurally altered. A
nonconforming structure damaged by flood, fire, wind or other natural or man-
made disaster may be restored unless the damage exceeds fifty percent (50%) of
its market value before it was damaged, in which case it shall conform to this
Chapter. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
ARTICLE VI
OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
13-6-1: Other Development Requirements
13-6-1: OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
The Board of Trustees shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent that
they are known in all official actions related to land management, use and
development.
   A.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements, and
planned unit developments (PUDs) within the SFHA shall be reviewed to assure
that the proposed developments are consistent with Articles II, III, IV and V
of this Chapter and the need to minimize flood damage. Plats or plans for new
subdivisions, manufactured home parks and planned unit developments (PUDs)
shall include a signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
plat or plans account for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (Illinois Revised Statutes, chapter 109, section
2).
   B.   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel trailer
parks, planned unit developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured home
parks and additions to subdivisions shall include base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation data and floodway delineations. Where this
information is not available from an existing study filed with the Illinois
State Water Survey, the applicant's engineer shall be responsible for
calculating the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation per subsection
13-1-5D and the floodway delineation per the definition in Section
13-1-2 of this Chapter, and submitting it to the State Water Survey and DWR for
review and approval as best available regulatory data.
   C.   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the flood plains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
   D.   The Board of Trustees shall not approve any planned unit development
(PUD) or plat of subdivision located outside the corporate limits unless such
agreement or plat is in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord.
91-20, 12-12-1991)
ARTICLE VII
VARIANCES
SECTION:
13-7-1: Variances
13-7-1: VARIANCES:
   A.   No variances shall be granted to any development located in a
regulatory floodway, as defined in Section
13-1-2 of this Chapter.
   B.   However, when a development proposal is located outside of a regulatory
floodway, and whenever the standards of this Chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Village Board for
a variance.
   C.   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA;
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety,
beneficial stream uses and functions, especially aquatic habitat, or creation
of a nuisance;
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
lost environmental stream uses and functions, rescue or relief operations,
policing, or repairs to stream beds and banks, roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      6.   The provisions of Sections
13-2-3 and
13-4-3 of this Chapter shall still be met;
      7.   The activity is not in a regulatory floodway;
      8.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not represent a
general problem; and
      9.   The granting of the variance will not alter the essential character
of the area involved including existing stream uses.
   D.   The Enforcement Officer shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of Article V of this Chapter that would lessen
the degree of protection to a building will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars ($100.00) of
insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that he will acknowledge in writing that he assumes the risk and liability.
   E.   Variances requested in connection with restoration of a historic site
or historic structure as defined in Section
13-1-2 of this Chapter may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of subsections C and D of this Section, subject to the conditions
that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
ARTICLE VIII
DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY
SECTION:
13-8-1: Disclaimer Of Liability
13-8-1: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this Chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur or flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This
Chapter does not imply that development, either inside or outside of the SFHA,
will be free from flooding or damage. This Chapter does not create liability on
the part of the Village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from reliance on this Chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
ARTICLE IX
PENALTY
SECTION:
13-9-1: Penalty
13-9-1: PENALTY:
   A.   Failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a
variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this Chapter. The Village shall
notify the owner in writing of any violation of this Chapter.
   B.   If such owner fails after ten (10) days notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The Village may make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this Chapter or make such other order as
the Court deems necessary to secure compliance with this Chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this Chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not less that fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
      4.   The Village may record a notice of violation on the title to the
property.
   C.   The Village shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and, therefore, may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   D.   Nothing herein shall prevent the Village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
ARTICLE X
ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
13-10-1: Abrogation; Greater Restrictions
13-10-1: ABROGATION; GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This Chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this Chapter and other
ordinances, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. This Chapter
is intended to repeal the original ordinance or resolution which was adopted to
meet the National Flood Insurance Program regulations, but is not intended to
repeal the resolution which the Village passed in order to establish initial
eligibility for the program. (Ord. 91-20, 12-12-1991)
ARTICLE XI
FEES
SECTION:
13-11-1: New Development Fees
13-11-1: NEW DEVELOPMENT FEES:
   A.   For all new development sites in the Village, a fee shall be paid by
the owner as follows:
 
For determining the flood plain designation         $25.00
For a permit for development in the flood fringe    25.00
For a permit for development in identified floodway  25.00
For development in a floodway not identified        25.00
 
   B.   In addition, for all development sites in the Village in the flood
fringe or floodway of the northern boundary of the Hampshire Creek Tributary,
the owner shall pay a supplemental fee equal to seventy five cents ($0.75) per
lineal foot of creekway on the property which is to be developed, where both
banks of the creek are on said property; provided, however, where only one bank
of the creekway is on the property to be developed, the supplemental fee shall
be thirty eight cents ($0.38) per lineal foot of creekway on the property.
   C.   All fees shall be paid by the applicant to the Village Clerk prior to
the issuance of any permit.
   D.   Issuance of such a permit by the Village in no way affects the
responsibility of such owner to comply with any and all State and Federal
regulations and to obtain any and all State and Federal permits. (Ord. 92-4, 7-
16-1992)
CHAPTER 14
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
General Provisions   I
Calculations   II
Determination Of Land Value   III
Distribution Of Funds Collected   IV
Miscellaneous   V
ARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
14-1-1: Purposes
14-1-2: Intent
14-1-3: Procedure And Administration
14-1-4: Effect Of Regulations
14-1-1: PURPOSES:
   A.   It is declared to be the policy of the Village that providing for
various public facilities is subject to the control of the Village in accord
with its Comprehensive Plan for the orderly, efficient and economical
development of the Village, including the public facilities necessary to serve
new development.
   B.   New development causes and imposes increased and excessive demands upon
public facilities and services that are specifically and uniquely attributable
to those developments.
   C.   Public facilities affected by new development include but are not
limited to schools, parks, sanitary sewer and water facilities and other
miscellaneous public facilities.
   D.   The cost of increased demand upon public facilities created by new
development should be satisfied and paid by the new development creating such
demand.
   E.   The amount of any development impact fees to be assessed by the Village
and required of new development shall be determined by calculating the
proportionate share of the cost of additional public facilities necessitated by
such development. (Ord. 92-15, 11-19-1992)
14-1-2: INTENT:
The intent of this Chapter is to require payment of various development impact
fees by the developer of land in the Village prior to or at the time of
issuance of a building permit, in an amount based upon the proportionate share
of the cost of the increased demand on public facilities created by such
development. (Ord. 95-19, 8-17-1995)
14-1-3: PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Any and all development impact fees due pursuant to the terms of this
Chapter shall be paid by the developer and collected by the Village Clerk prior
to the issuance of each respective building permit for the development;
provided, the Village Board may in its sole discretion require payment of the
fees due under this Chapter by the developer in a lump sum for the entire
development, or phase by phase, as a condition to the approval by the Village
of the final plat of subdivision, final site plan, or other applicable
development plan or agreement for the development; and execution thereof by the
Village President and Village Clerk shall be conditioned upon prior payment in
full of any and all amounts due pursuant to this Chapter.
   B.   The Village Clerk shall pay any such funds so collected over to the
Village Treasurer, according to ordinance.
   C.   The Village Treasurer shall establish separate interest- bearing
accounts, in a bank or savings institution authorized to receive deposit of
Village funds, for each type of development impact fee authorized under this
Chapter.
      1.   The Treasurer shall deposit any funds collected by the Clerk
pursuant to this Chapter into the separate accounts maintained therefor.
      2.   Interest earned in each account shall be credited to that account
and shall be used solely for the purposes specified for funds in such account.
      3.   The Treasurer shall account for all monies received; shall maintain
and keep adequate financial records for each account, which shall show the
source of and disbursement of all revenues; and shall ensure that the
disbursement of funds from each account shall be solely and exclusively for the
provision of public facilities consistent with the terms of this Chapter.
   D.   Development impact fees established pursuant to this Chapter shall be
calculated by the Village as to each new development proposed in the Village.
(Ord. 95-19, 8-17-1995)
14-1-4: EFFECT OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   The terms of this Chapter shall not affect the zoning, subdivision or
other regulations of the Village regulating the development of land or
provision for public improvements.
   B.   The development impact fees described in this Chapter shall be
additional and supplemental to and not in substitution of any other
requirements imposed by the Village on the development of land or the issuance
of building permits.
   C.   The terms of this Chapter shall apply to new construction and additions
for which building permits are requested in the Village from and after the
effective date of these regulations. For purposes of this Chapter, the term
building permit shall not refer to permits for remodeling, for rehabilitation
or other improvements to an existing structure, or for rebuilding a damaged or
destroyed structure; provided, that no increase in gross floor area or number
of dwelling units results therefrom.
   D.   The terms of this Chapter shall not apply to lots of record as of the
effective date of these regulations. (Ord. 92-15, 11-19-1992)
ARTICLE II
CALCULATIONS
SECTION:
14-2-1: Public Use Contributions
14-2-2: School Contributions
14-2-3: Park And Recreation Contributions
14-2-4: Wastewater Treatment Contributions
14-2-5: Water Supply And Storage Contributions
14-2-6: Fire Protection Contributions
14-2-7: Library Contributions
14-2-8: Cemetery Contributions
14-2-1: PUBLIC USE CONTRIBUTIONS:
   A.   The following criteria shall govern contributions for public uses:
      1.   Population Ratio: The ultimate density of a proposed development
shall bear directly upon the amount of the contribution required for public
uses, and the total requirement shall be based on a requirement of ten (10)
acres of land, or cash equivalent, per one thousand (1,000) persons of ultimate
population in accordance with the following standards by type of public uses:
 
Types Of Public Uses                            Minimum Acres Per
                                                1,000 Population
Municipal service areas including Village Hall, 4
Police Department and Street Department
Total                                           10 acres per 1,000 population
 
(Ord. 98-32, 11-4-1998; amd. Ord. 06-58, 11-2-2006)
14-2-2: SCHOOL CONTRIBUTIONS:
   A.   The following criteria shall govern the dedication of school sites:
      1.   Population Ratio: The estimated number of students to be generated
by a proposed development shall bear directly upon the amount of contribution
required for school purposes.
         a.   The contribution requirement shall be determined by calculating
the ratio of: 1) the estimated number of children to be generated by the
proposed development to be served in each school classification, derived from
the table described in subsection A3 of this section, to the 2) maximum
recommended number of students to be served in each such school classification
set forth in subsection A2a of this section; and then applying such ratio to 3)
the minimum recommended number of acres for a school site for each such school
classification set forth in subsection A2b of this section.
         b.   The product obtained by the calculation made pursuant to
subsection A1a of this section shall be the number of acres of land deemed
necessary for the schools needed to serve the estimated number of students in
each school classification to be generated by the proposed development.
      2.   School Classifications And Sizes Of School Sites: School
classifications and the amount of land to be contributed shall be determined in
accordance with the following criteria:
         a.   Maximum Number Of Students For Each School Classification:
 
Elementary schools (K - 6) 670
Middle schools (7 - 9)     850
High schools (10 - 12)     1,500
 
         b.   Minimum Number Of Acres Of Land For A Site For Each School
Classification:
 
Elementary schools (K - 6) 15
Middle schools (7 - 9)     25
High schools (10 - 12)     70
 
      3.   Estimating School Population: For purposes of estimating the
ultimate school population per dwelling unit for this section, the Village
adopts the Table of Estimated Ultimate School Population Per Dwelling Unit,
prepared by the Illinois School Consulting Service/Associated Municipal
Consultants, dated 1996, and located in this chapter. (Ord. 16-27, 11-17-2016)
14-2-3: PARK AND RECREATION CONTRIBUTIONS:
   A.   The following shall be the criteria for contributions for park and
recreation purposes:
      1.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate density of a proposed
development shall bear directly upon the amount of contribution required, and
the total requirement shall be the equivalent of ten (10) acres of land or cash
equivalent per one thousand (1,000) persons of ultimate population in
accordance with the following standards by types of recreation and park areas:
 
Types Of                       Estimated Size         Minimum Acres
Recreation Area                                       Per 1,000 Population
Play lot                          7,500   squaren/aet
Neighborhood park                 1   acre      1.5 acres
Park (neighborhood playground)    5   acres     2.0 acres
Districtwide park or playfield    10   acres    2.5 acres
Communitywide recreation park     15   acres    4.0 acres
Total                                                 10 acres of land per
                                                      1,000 population
 
(Ord. 98-32, 11-4-1998)
14-2-4: WASTEWATER TREATMENT CONTRIBUTIONS:
   A.   The following shall be the criteria for contributions for wastewater
treatment facilities:
      1.   The ultimate density of the proposed development shall bear directly
upon the amount of contribution required, and the total requirement shall be
derived from a base figure of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per
population equivalent of the development. (Ord. 98-32, 11-4-1998)
   B.   Any nonresidential sewer user in the Village shall be assessed a sewer
connection fee, pursuant to section
8-1-3 of this Code, together with a wastewater treatment contribution, pursuant
to this section. (Ord. 07-57, 11-15-2007)
14-2-5: WATER SUPPLY AND STORAGE CONTRIBUTIONS:
   A.   The following shall be the criteria for contributions for water supply
and storage:
      1.   The ultimate density of the proposed development shall bear directly
upon the amount of contribution required, and the total requirement shall be
derived from a base figure of three hundred sixty dollars ($360.00) per
population equivalent of the development for the water supply; and two hundred
twenty dollars ($220.00) per population equivalent of the development for water
storage. (Ord. 02-09, 5-16-2002)
   B.   Any nonresidential water user in the Village shall be assessed a water
connection fee, pursuant to section
8-1-3 of this Code, together with a water supply and storage contribution,
pursuant to this section. (Ord. 07-57, 11-15-2007)
14-2-6: FIRE PROTECTION CONTRIBUTIONS:
   A.   The following shall be the criteria for contributions for fire
protection purposes:
      1.   For Residential Uses: The fee shall be set per dwelling unit from
time to time by the board of trustees. For purposes of this section, "dwelling
unit" shall be defined as otherwise defined in chapter 6 of this Code.
      2.   For Commercial Or Industrial Uses: The fee shall be set per building
from time to time by the board of trustees.
      For purposes of this section, "building" shall mean any principal and
accessory structure(s) on the property in question; but shall exclude any
parking area, yard, and open space. (Ord. 06-52, 9-7-2006; amd. Ord. 25-12, 4-
17-2025)
14-2-7: LIBRARY CONTRIBUTIONS:
   A.   The following shall be the criteria for contributions for library
purposes:
      1.   The number of dwelling units in the proposed development shall bear
directly upon the amount of contribution required; the total contribution shall
be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per dwelling unit.
For purposes of this section, "dwelling unit" shall be defined as otherwise
defined in chapter 6 of this Code. (Ord. 98-32, 11-4-1998)
14-2-8: CEMETERY CONTRIBUTIONS:
   A.   The following shall be the criteria for contributions for cemetery
purposes:
      1.   The number of dwelling units in the proposed development shall bear
directly upon the amount of contribution required: The total contribution shall
be eighty dollars ($80.00) per dwelling unit.
For purposes of this section, "dwelling unit" shall be defined as otherwise
defined in chapter 6 of this Code. (Ord. 06-57, 10-19-2006)
ARTICLE III
DETERMINATION OF LAND VALUE
SECTION:
14-3-1: Determination Of Land Value For Calculation Of Impact Fees
14-3-2: Dwelling Unit And Commercial/Industrial Uses Population Equivalent
Formula
14-3-3: Dedication Of Land
14-3-1: DETERMINATION OF LAND VALUE FOR CALCULATION OF IMPACT FEES:
   A.   The development impact fees described in this chapter shall be based on
the fair market value of an acre of land in the area to be developed.
   B.   The present fair market value of improved land in the area of the
village is determined to be one hundred thirty thousand dollars ($130,000.00)
per acre.
      1.   The fair market value of improved land in the area of the village
shall be reviewed and may be adjusted by the corporate authorities from time to
time hereafter, and in any event, specifically as follows:
         a.   At least once annually, within thirty (30) days after publication
of the consumer price index increase or decrease for the prior calendar year;
and
         b.   At least once every three (3) years, for which purpose the
village shall obtain a new or updated MAI appraisal relating to the fair market
value of improved land in the area of the village.
   C.   The land value set forth in this article is to be used in the
calculation of any and all development impact fees due under the terms of this
chapter, unless the developer shall submit, at his or her own cost, an
independent appraisal from an MAI designated appraiser, indicating that the
fair market value in question is less.
      1.   Any such MAI appraisal shall be submitted to the village board for
its consideration in setting the amount of contributions due under this
chapter.
      2.   Final determination of the amount of contributions due shall be made
by the corporate authorities in its sole discretion, based on information
submitted by the developer, and based on any other information before the
corporate authorities at the time.
   D.   The following land areas shall be excluded from consideration of the
population equivalent for purposes of this chapter:
      1.   Land dedicated as a site for a water system capital improvement;
      2.   Area in excess of one acre devoted exclusively to active recreation
uses;
      3.   Area in excess of one acre designated by the army corps of engineers
as a wetland. (Ord. 92-15, 11-19-1992; amd. Ord. 13-08, 1-24-2013; Ord. 15-08,
3-5-2015; Ord. 18-32,
14-3-2: DWELLING UNIT AND COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL USES POPULATION EQUIVALENT
FORMULA:
   A.   Calculation of the required impact fees under this chapter shall be
made according to the estimated population and population equivalent factors
set forth in the following tables: (Ord. 92-15, 11-19-1992)
   TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION
   PER DWELLING UNIT
Children Per Unit
                             Junior               High
        Preschool Elementary High      Total      School              Total Per
Type Of                      Grades 7- Grades K-8 Grades 9- Adults    Dwelling
Unit    0-4 Years Grades K-6 8         5-13 Years 12        18+ Years Unit
                  5-11 Years 12-13                14-17
                             Years                Years
Children Per Unit
                                Junior Total     High
           Preschool Elementary High   Grades K- School              Total Per
Type Of                         Grades 8         Grades 9- Adults    Dwelling
Unit       0-4 Years Grades K-6 7-8    5-13      12        18+ Years Unit
                     5-11 Years 12-13  Years     14-17
                                Years            Years
                                                               
Detached single-family:
2 bedroom  0.113     0.136      0.048  0.184     0.020     1.700     2.017
3 bedroom  0.292     0.369      0.173  0.542     0.184     1.881     2.899
4 bedroom  0.418     0.530      0.298  0.828     0.360     2.158     3.764
5 bedroom  0.283     0.345      0.248  0.593     0.300     2.594     3.770
 
Attached single-family:
1 bedroom  --        --         --     --        --        1.193     1.193
2 bedroom  0.064     0.088      0.048  0.136     0.038     1.752     1.990
3 bedroom  0.212     0.234      0.058  0.292     0.059     1.829     2.392
4 bedroom  0.323     0.322      0.154  0.476     0.173     2.173     3.145
 
Apartments:
Efficiency --        --         --     --        --        1.294     1.294
1 bedroom  --        --         0.001  0.003     0.001     1.754     1.758
2 bedroom  0.047     0.086      0.042  0.128     0.046     1.693     1.914
3 bedroom  0.052     0.234      0.123  0.357     0.118     2.526     3.053
 
Note:   There are only 3 significant categories provided in this chart.
Because of the similarity of yields of all types of attached single-family
dwelling units, only 1 category is provided. The same is true with apartments;
thus, only 1 category. Because of the relatively short history of some newer
types of detached and attached single-family units, individual evaluations may
be necessary.
 
(Ord. 07-03, 2-8-2007)
TABLE OF ESTIMATED POPULATION EQUIVALENT
Residential Uses
Type                        Population Equivalent
Efficiency/studio apartment   1
1 bedroom apartment           1.5
2 bedroom apartment           3
3 bedroom apartment           3
Single-family dwelling        3.5
                              
Industrial/Commercial Uses
Zoning Classification       Population Equivalent
 B-1                        0.00025 PE/SF of building
 B-2                        0.00025 PE/SF of building
 B-3                        0.00025 PE/SF of building
 M-1                        0.000075 PE/SF of building
 M-2                        0.000075 PE/SF of building
 
(Ord. 92-15, 11-19-1992; amd. Ord. 07-03, 2-8-2007)
   B.   In the event a developer files a written objection to the use of the
tables the developer shall obtain and submit, at his or her own cost, a
demographic study and in the case of sewer and water fees, an engineering study
prepared by an Illinois registered professional engineer showing the estimated
population or population equivalent, respectively to be generated from the
development; and in that event, the final determination of the calculation
shall be made by the corporate authorities, in their sole discretion, based
upon such information as has been submitted by the developer, and based upon
any other pertinent information before the corporate authorities at the time.
   C.   It is recognized that population density, age distribution and local
conditions change over the years and the specific formula for the dedication of
land, or the payment of fees in lieu thereof, as stated herein, is subject to
periodic review and amendment if necessary. (Ord. 92-15, 11-19-1992)
14-3-3: DEDICATION OF LAND:
   A.   Satisfaction Of Fees: In the discretion of the village, a developer
shall dedicate land to satisfy the development impact fees due.
      1.   Any such dedications shall be consistent with the comprehensive plan
of the village for the uses described in this chapter.
      2.   The dedication of land may satisfy the required development impact
fee in whole or in part.
   B.   Credit For Private Open Spaces And Recreation Acres: When a developer
provides open space for recreation areas and facilities, it has the effect of
reducing the demand for local public recreational services, and depending on
the size of the development, all or a portion of the park and recreation area
in the proposed development may, at the option of the village, be credited
toward the contribution due for park and recreation purposes.
      1.   The extent to which private park and recreation area may be
substituted for the required public park and recreation area shall be
determined by the village based upon the nature of the projected areas of such
open space, the needs of the projected residents, the adopted plans of the area
and after consideration of the total park and recreation land for the general
area.
      2.   In general, a substitution of private park and recreation area for
dedicated parks and recreation areas may require a substantially higher degree
of improvement and the installation of recreational facilities, including
equipment, by the developer as part of his obligation.
      3.   Detailed plans of such areas, including specification of facilities
to be installed, must be approved by the village, and before any credit is
given for private parks and recreation areas, the subdivider or developer must
guarantee that these private parks and recreation areas will be permanently
maintained, by the execution of appropriate legal documents.
      4.   In addition, if approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission, a
substitution of private parks and recreation areas for dedicated parks and
recreation areas may also be allowed for conservation purposes through the use
of easement rights or other similar techniques used to preserve land in its
natural condition.
      5.   When an adjustment for private park and recreation areas is
warranted, it will be necessary to compute the total park and recreation areas
land dedication that would have been required from the proposed development and
then subtract the credit to be given.
   C.   Reservation Of Additional Land: Where the comprehensive plan or the
standards of the village call for a larger number of sites in a particular
development than the developer would be required to dedicate the village may
require that land needed beyond the developer's contribution shall be reserved
for subsequent purchase by the appropriate public body. Such reservation shall
be made for at least one year from the date of approval of the final plat.
   D.   Combining With Adjoining Developments: Where the development is less
than forty (40) acres the village may require that a site which is to be
dedicated be combined with dedications from adjoining developments in order to
produce a usable site without hardship on a particular developer.
   E.   General Site Standards:
      1.   The topography, geology and soils of the dedicated site as well as
its surroundings must be suitable for its intended purpose.
      2.   Wetlands shall not be accepted for village ownership and
maintenance, and shall not be accepted as a credit toward any required
development impact fee.
      3.   Stormwater detention areas shall not, in the discretion of the
village, be accepted for village ownership and maintenance, and the portion of
a detention area designed to function primarily as a component of the
stormwater control system shall not serve as a credit toward any required
development impact fee.
      4.   Retention areas shall not, in the discretion of the village, be
accepted for village ownership and maintenance, and shall not serve as a credit
toward any required development impact fee.
      5.   Any park site shall be not less than one acre in size.
      6.   Areas of steep slope shall not in the discretion of the village be
accepted as sites, and shall not serve as a credit toward any required
development impact fee.
   F.   Improved Sites: Prior to dedication of any land, the site shall be
improved with full service of electrical, water, sewer and street services
where these services are included in the development and are applicable to the
location of the site, or acceptable provision must be made therefor. (Ord. 92-
15, 11-19-1992; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
ARTICLE IV
DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS COLLECTED
SECTION:
14-4-1: Distribution Of Contributions
14-4-1: DISTRIBUTION OF CONTRIBUTIONS:
   A.   Park Improvements: The contributions received by the Village for park
improvements shall be held by the Village solely for the acquisition of, or
improvement to, parks which will serve the immediate or future needs of the
residents of the development; or for the improvement or expansion of existing
parks which already serve such needs; and may be forwarded from time to time to
the park district for park purposes permitted by law.
   B.   School Improvements: The contributions received by the Village for
school improvements shall be held by the Village and forwarded from time to
time to the school district, for the acquisition of school sites and for other
school purposes as permitted by law.
   C.   Wastewater Treatment: The contributions received by the Village for
wastewater treatment shall be held by the Village and utilized solely for
wastewater treatment facilities which will serve the immediate and future needs
of the residents of the development.
   D.   Water System Improvements: The contributions received by the Village
for water system improvements shall be held by the Village and utilized solely
for water system facilities which will serve the immediate and future needs of
the residents of the development.
   E.   Public Uses: The contributions received by the Village for public uses
shall be held by the Village and utilized solely for the public uses or
facilities which will serve the immediate or future needs of the residents of
the development, or for the improvement of other existing public uses which
already service such needs.
   F.   Library Purposes: The contributions received by the Village for library
purposes shall be held by the Village and forwarded from time to time to the
library district, for the use of the district permitted by law.
   G.   Fire Protection: The contributions received by the Village for fire
protection purposes shall be held by the Village and forwarded from time to
time to the fire protection district, for the use of the district permitted by
law.
   H.   Indemnification: The school district, park district, fire protection
district, and library district, or any other recipient of funds collected by
the Village and transferred to another entity, respectively, agree to indemnify
and hold the Village harmless from any and all claims, demands, suits or
damages incurred in assessing, collecting, holding and/or paying over amounts
due received under the terms of this Chapter. As a condition of the Village
assessing, collecting, holding and/or paying over said sums, any school
district, park district, fire protection district, library district, or any
other entity, respectively, shall execute and deliver to the Village an
indemnification agreement in form designated from time to time by the Village.
(Ord. 99-2, 3-18-1999)
ARTICLE V
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION:
14-5-1: Dedication Or Contribution As A Condition Of Annexation
14-5-1: DEDICATION OR CONTRIBUTION AS A CONDITION OF ANNEXATION:
   A.   The dedication of land or payment of cash contributions as required by
this chapter shall be required as a condition to the annexation of any land to
the village. The village board shall consider, and may in its sole discretion
require payment of the fees due under this chapter by the developer in a lump
sum for the entire development, or phase by phase, as a condition to the
annexation of any land to the village. (Ord. 95-19, 8-17-1995)
CHAPTER 15
SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
Findings And Purpose   I
Site Development Permit   II
Design And Operation Standards And Requirements   III
Enforcement   IV
ARTICLE I
FINDINGS AND PURPOSE
SECTION:
15-1-1: Findings
15-1-2: Purpose
15-1-3: Definitions
15-1-4: General Principles
15-1-1: FINDINGS:
   A.   The Board of Trustees of the Village hereby finds that:
      1.   Excessive quantities of soil may erode from areas undergoing
development for certain nonagricultural uses including, but not limited to, the
construction of dwelling units, commercial buildings and industrial plants, the
building of roads and highways, the modification of stream channels and
drainageways, and the creation of recreational facilities;
      2.   The washing, blowing, and falling of eroded soil across and upon
roadways endangers the health and safety of users thereof, by decreasing vision
and reducing traction of road vehicles;
      3.   Soil erosion necessitates the costly repairing of gulleys, washed
out fills, and embankments;
      4.   Sediment from soil erosion tends to clog sewers and ditches and to
pollute and silt rivers, streams, lakes, wetlands, and reservoirs;
      5.   Sediment limits the use of water and waterways for most beneficial
purposes, promotes the growth of undesirable aquatic weeds, destroys fish and
other desirable aquatic life, and is costly and difficult to remove; and
      6.   Sediment reduces the channel capacity of waterways and the storage
capacity of floodplains and natural depressions, resulting in increased chances
of flooding at risk to public health and safety. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-1-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   The Board of Trustees therefore declares that the purpose of this
Chapter is to safeguard persons, protect property, prevent damage to the
environment, and promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and
controlling the design, construction, use and maintenance of any development or
other activity which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or otherwise results in the
movement of earth on land situated in the Village.
   B.   It is the intention of this Chapter that the delivery of sediment from
sites affected by land disturbing activities be limited, as closely as
practicable, to that which would have occurred if the land had been left in its
natural undisturbed state. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter certain terms used herein are defined as set
forth below:
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit issued by the Village for the construction, erection
or alteration of a structure or building.
CERTIFY OR CERTIFICATION: Formally attesting that the specific inspections and
tests where required have been performed, and that such tests comply with the
applicable requirements of this Chapter.
CLEARING: Any activity which removes vegetative ground cover.
CUBIC YARDS: The amount of material in excavation and/or fill measured by the
method of "average end areas".
EXCAVATION: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any
other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
EXISTING GRADE: The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to
excavation or filling.
FILL: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
man to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
FINAL GRADE: The vertical location of the ground or pavement surface after the
grading work is completed in accordance with the site development plan.
GRADING: Excavation or fill or any combination thereof and shall include the
conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
NATURAL DRAINAGE: Channels formed in the existing surface topography of the
earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
PARCEL: All contiguous land in one ownership.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a site development permit is issued.
PERSON: Any individual, firm or corporation, public or private, the State of
Illinois and its agencies or political subdivisions, and the United States of
America, its agencies and instrumentalities, and any agent, servant, officer or
employee of any of the foregoing.
REMOVAL: Cutting vegetation to the ground or stumps, complete extraction, or
killing by spraying.
SITE: A lot or parcel of land, or a contiguous combination thereof, where
grading work is performed as a single unified operation.
SITE DEVELOPMENT: Altering terrain and/or vegetation and constructing
improvements.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit issued by the Village for the construction or
alteration of ground improvements and structures for the control of erosion,
runoff and grading.
STREAM: Any river, creek, brook, branch, flowage, ravine, or natural or manmade
drainageway which has a definite bed and banks or shoreline, in or into which
surface or groundwater flows, either perennially or intermittently.
STRIPPING: Any activity which removes the vegetative surface cover including
tree removal, clearing, and storage or removal of top soil.
VACANT: Land on which there are no structures or only structures which are
secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself.
VILLAGE: The Village of Hampshire, Kane County, Illinois.
WETLANDS: Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-1-4: GENERAL PRINCIPLES:
   A.   It is the objective of this Chapter to control soil erosion and
sedimentation caused by development activities, including clearing, grading,
stripping, excavating, and filling of land, in the Village. Measures taken to
control soil erosion and off-site sediment runoff should be adequate to assure
that sediment is not transported from the site by a storm event of ten (10)
year frequency or less.
   B.   The following principles shall apply to all development activities
within the Village and to the preparation of the submissions required under
Article II of this Chapter.
      1.   Development should be related to the topography and soils of the
site so as to create the least potential for erosion. Areas of steep slopes
where high cuts and fills may be required should be avoided wherever possible,
and natural contours should be followed as closely as possible.
      2.   Natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever
possible. Areas immediately adjacent to natural watercourses, lakes, ponds, and
wetlands should be left undisturbed wherever possible. Temporary crossings of
watercourses, when permitted, must include appropriate stabilization measures.
      3.   Special precautions should be taken to prevent damages resultant
from any necessary development activity within or adjacent to any stream, lake,
pond, or wetland. Preventative measures should reflect the sensitivity of these
areas to erosion and sedimentation.
      4.   The smallest practical area of land should be exposed for the
shortest practical time during development.
      5.   Sediment basins or traps, filter barriers, diversions, and any other
appropriate sediment or runoff control measures should be installed prior to
site clearing and grading and maintained to remove sediment from runoff waters
from land undergoing development.
      6.   The selection of erosion and sedimentation control measures should
be based on assessment of the probable frequency of climatic and other events
likely to contribute to erosion, and on evaluation of the risks, costs, and
benefits involved.
      7.   In the design of erosion control facilities and practices,
aesthetics and the requirements of continuing maintenance should be considered.
      8.   Provision should be made to accommodate the increased runoff caused
by changed soil and surface conditions during and after development.
Drainageways should be designed so that their final gradients and the resultant
velocities and rates of discharge will not create additional erosion on-site or
downstream.
      9.   Permanent vegetation and structures should be installed and
functional as soon as practical during development.
      10.   Those areas being converted from agricultural purposes to other
land uses should be vegetated with an appropriate protective cover prior to
development.
      11.   All waste generated as a result of site development activity should
be properly disposed of and should be prevented from being carried off the site
by either wind or water.
      12.   All construction sites should provide measures to prevent sediment
from being tracked onto public or private roadways. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
ARTICLE II
SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT
SECTION:
15-2-1: Permit Required
15-2-2: Exceptions
15-2-3: Application For Permit
15-2-4: Submissions
15-2-5: Bonds
15-2-6: Review And Approval
15-2-7: Expiration Of Permit
15-2-8: Appeals
15-2-9: Retention Of Plans
15-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided in this Article, no person shall commence or
perform any clearing, grading, stripping, excavating, or filling of land which
meets the following provisions without having first obtained a site development
permit from the Village:
   A.   Any land disturbing activity (i.e., clearing, grading, stripping,
excavation, fill, or any combination thereof) that will affect an area in
excess of five thousand (5,000) square feet;
   B.   Any land disturbing activity that will affect an area in excess of five
hundred (500) square feet if the activity is within twenty five feet (25') of a
lake, pond, stream, or wetland; or
   C.   Excavation, fill, or any combination thereof that will exceed one
hundred (100) cubic yards. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-2-2: EXCEPTIONS:
A permit shall not be required for any of the following provided that the
person responsible for any such development shall implement necessary soil
erosion and sediment control measures to satisfy the principles set forth in
Section
15-1-4 of this Chapter:
   A.   Agricultural use of land, including the implementation of conservation
measures included in a farm conservation plan approved by the Soil and Water
Conservation District, and including the construction of agricultural
structures;
   B.   Installation, renovation, or replacement of a septic system to serve an
existing dwelling or structure. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-2-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Application for a site development permit shall be made by the owner of the
property or his authorized agent to the Village on a form furnished for that
purpose. Each application shall bear the name(s) and address(es) of the owner
or developer of the site and of any consulting firm retained by the applicant
together with the name of the applicant's principal contact at such firm. Each
application shall include certification that any land clearing, construction,
or development involving the movement of earth shall be in accordance with the
plans approved upon issuance of the permit. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-2-4: SUBMISSIONS:
   A.   Each application for a site development permit shall be accompanied by
the following information:
      1.   A vicinity map in sufficient detail to enable easy location in the
field of the site for which the permit is sought, and including the boundary
lines and approximate acreage of the site, existing zoning, and a legend and
scale.
      2.   A development plan of the site showing:
         a.   Existing topography of the site and adjacent land within
approximately one hundred feet (100') of the boundaries, drawn at no greater
than one foot (1') contour intervals and clearly portraying the conformation
and drainage pattern of the area.
         b.   The location of existing buildings, structures, utilities,
streams, lakes, floodplains, wetlands and depressions, drainage facilities,
vegetative cover, paved areas, and other significant natural or manmade
features on the site and adjacent land within one hundred feet (100') of the
boundary.
         c.   A general description of the predominant soil types on the site,
their location, and their limitations for the proposed use.
         d.   Proposed use of the site, including present development and
planned utilization; areas of clearing, stripping, grading, excavation, and
filling; proposed contours, finished grades, and street profiles; provisions
for storm drainage, including storm sewers, swales, detention basins and any
other measures to control the rate of runoff, with a drainage area map,
indications of flow directions, and computations; kinds and locations of
utilities; and areas and acreages proposed to be paved, covered, sodded or
seeded, vegetatively stabilized, or left undisturbed.
      3.   An erosion and sediment control plan showing all measures necessary
to meet the objectives of this Chapter throughout all phases of construction
and permanently after completion of development of the site, including:
         a.   Location and description, including standard details, of all
sediment control measures and design specifics of sediment basins and traps,
including outlet details.
         b.   Location and description of all soil stabilization and erosion
control measures, including seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of
seedbed preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime and
fertilizer application, kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary and
permanent vegetative control measures, and types of nonvegetative stabilization
measures.
         c.   Location and description of all runoff control measures,
including diversions, waterways, and outlets.
         d.   Location and description of methods to prevent tracking of
sediment off-site, including construction entrance details, as appropriate.
         e.   Description of dust and traffic-control measures.
         f.   Locations of stockpiles and description of stabilization methods.
         g.   Description of off-site fill or borrow volumes, locations, and
methods of stabilization.
         h.   Provisions for maintenance of control measures, including type
and frequency of maintenance, easements, and estimates of the cost of
maintenance.
         i.   Identification (name, address, and telephone) of the person(s) or
entity which will have legal responsibility for maintenance of erosion control
structures and measures during development and after development is completed.
      4.   The proposed phasing of development of the site, including stripping
and clearing, rough grading and construction, and final grading and
landscaping.
         a.   Phasing should identify the expected date on which clearing will
begin, the estimated duration of exposure of cleared areas, and the sequence of
installation of temporary sediment control measures (including perimeter
controls), clearing and grading, installation of temporary soil stabilization
measures, installation of storm drainage, paving streets and parking areas,
final grading and the establishment of permanent vegetative cover, and the
removal of temporary measures.
         b.   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to notify the
Village Engineer of any significant changes which occur in the site development
schedule after the initial erosion and sediment control plan has been approved.
         c.   These submissions shall be prepared in accordance with the
requirements of this Article and the standards and requirements contained in
Standards and Specifications for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control (the Yellow
Book) published by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the
Illinois Procedures and Standards for Urban Soil Erosion and Sedimentation
Control Steering committee and adopted by the Kane-DuPage Soil and Water
Conservation District, which standards and requirements are hereby incorporated
into this Section by reference.
         d.   The Village Engineer may waive specific requirements for the
content of submissions upon finding that the information submitted is
sufficient to show that the work will comply with the objectives and principles
of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-2-5: BONDS:
The applicant is required to file with the Village a faithful performance bond
or bonds, letter of credit, or other improvement security satisfactory to the
Village Attorney in an amount deemed sufficient by the Village Engineer to
cover all costs of improvements, landscaping, maintenance of improvements and
landscaping, and soil erosion and sediment control measures for such period as
specified by the Village, and engineering and inspection costs to cover the
cost of failure or repair of improvements installed on the site. (Ord. 97-4, 2-
20-1997)
15-2-6: REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
   A.   Each application for a site development permit shall be reviewed and
acted upon according to the following procedures:
      1.   The Village Engineer will review each application for a site
development permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this
Article. The Village Engineer may also refer any application to the Kane-DuPage
Soil and Water Conservation District and/or any other local government or
public agency within whose jurisdiction the site is located for review and
comment. Within thirty (30) days after receiving an application, the Village
Engineer shall in writing:
         a.   Approve the permit application if it is found to be in
conformance with the provisions of this Article, and issue the permit;
         b.   Approve the permit application subject to such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary to secure substantially the objectives of this
Chapter, and issue the permit subject to these conditions; or
         c.   Disapprove the permit application, indicating the deficiencies
and the procedure for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
      2.   No site development permit shall be issued for an intended
development site unless:
         a.   The development, including, but not limited to, subdivisions and
planned unit development, has been approved by the Village where applicable; or
         b.   Such permit is accompanied by or combined with a valid building
permit issued by the Village; or
         c.   The proposed earth moving is coordinated with any overall
development program previously approved by the Village for the area in which
the site is situated; and
         d.   All relevant Federal and State permits (i.e., for floodplains and
wetlands) have been received for the portion of the site subject to soil
disturbance.
      3.   Failure of the Village Engineer to act on an original or revised
application within thirty (30) days of receipt shall authorize the applicant to
proceed in accordance with the plans as filed unless such time is extended by
agreement between the Village Engineer and the applicant. Pending preparation
and approval of a revised plan, development activities shall be allowed to
proceed in accordance with conditions established by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-2-7: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
Every site development permit shall expire and become null and void if the work
authorized by such permit has not been commenced within one hundred eighty
(180) days, or is not completed by a date which shall be specified in the
permit; except that the Village Engineer may, if the permittee presents
satisfactory evidence that unusual difficulties have prevented work being
commenced or completed within the specified time limits, grant a reasonable
extension of time if written application is made before the expiration date of
the permit. The Village Engineer may require modification of the erosion
control plan to prevent any increase in erosion or off-site sediment runoff
resulting from any extension. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-2-8: APPEALS:
Any applicant may appeal any decision of the Village Engineer to the Village
Board of Trustees, provided that no such appeal shall be taken until and unless
the applicant has requested a conference with the Village Engineer, not a
subordinate of the Village Engineer, and either the conference has been held or
the Village Engineer has not scheduled a conference. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-2-9: RETENTION OF PLANS:
Plans, specifications, and reports for all site developments shall be retained
in original form by the Village. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
ARTICLE III
DESIGN AND OPERATION STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
15-3-1: Applicability
15-3-2: Responsibility
15-3-3: Site Design Requirements
15-3-4: Handbooks Adopted By Reference
15-3-5: Maintenance Of Control Measures
15-3-6: Inspection
15-3-7: Special Precautions
15-3-8: Amendment Of Plans
15-3-1: APPLICABILITY:
All clearing, grading, stripping, excavating, and filling which is subject to
the permit requirements of Article II of this Chapter shall be subject to the
applicable standards and requirements set forth in this Article. (Ord. 97-4, 2-
20-1997)
15-3-2: RESPONSIBILITY:
The permittee shall not be relieved of responsibility for damage to persons or
property otherwise imposed by law, and the Village or its officers or agents
will not be made liable for such damage, by: a) the issuance of a permit under
Article II of this Chapter, b) compliance with the provisions of that permit or
with conditions attached to it by the Village Engineer, c) failure of Village
officials to observe or recognize hazardous or unsightly conditions, d) failure
of Village officials to recommend denial of or to deny a permit, or e)
exemptions from the permit requirements of Article II of this Chapter. (Ord.
97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-3-3: SITE DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   On-site sediment control measures, as specified by the following
criteria, shall be constructed and functional prior to initiating clearing,
grading, stripping, excavating or fill activities on the site:
      1.   For disturbed areas draining less than one acre, filter barriers
(including filter fences, straw bales, or equivalent control measures) shall be
constructed to control all off-site runoff as specified in referenced
handbooks. Vegetated filter strips, with a minimum width of twenty five feet
(25'), may be used as an alternative only where runoff in sheet flow is
expected.
      2.   For disturbed areas draining more than one but less than five (5)
acres, a sediment trap or equivalent control measure shall be constructed at
the downslope point of the disturbed area.
      3.   For disturbed areas draining more than five (5) acres, a sediment
basin or equivalent control measure shall be constructed at the downslope point
of the disturbed area.
      4.   Sediment basin and sediment trap designs shall provide for both
detention storage and sediment storage. The detention storage shall be composed
of equal volumes of "wet" detention storage and "dry" detention storage and
each shall be sized for the two (2) year, twenty four (24) hour runoff from the
site under maximum runoff conditions during construction. The release rate of
the basin shall be that rate required to achieve minimum detention times of at
least ten (10) hours. The elevation of the outlet structure shall be placed
such that it only drains the dry detention storage.
      5.   The sediment storage shall be sized to store the estimated sediment
load generated from the site over the duration of the construction period with
a minimum storage equivalent to the volume of sediment generated in one year.
For construction periods exceeding one year, the one year sediment load and a
sediment removal schedule may be substituted.
   B.   Storm water conveyance channels, including ditches, swales, and
diversions, and the outlets of all channels and pipes shall be designed and
constructed to withstand the expected flow velocity from the ten (10) year
frequency storm without erosion. All constructed or modified channels shall be
stabilized within forty eight (48) hours, consistent with the following
standards:
      1.   For grades up to four percent (4%), seeding in combination with
mulch, erosion blanket, or an equivalent control measure shall be applied. Sod
or erosion blanket or mat shall be applied to the bottom of the channel.
      2.   For grades of four percent (4%) to eight percent (8%), sod or an
equivalent control measure shall be applied in the channel.
      3.   For grades greater than eight percent (8%), rock, riprap, or an
equivalent control measure shall be applied, or the grade shall be effectively
reduced using drop structures.
   C.   Disturbed areas shall be stabilized with temporary or permanent
measures within seven (7) calendar days following the end of active
disturbance, or redisturbance, consistent with the following criteria:
      1.   Appropriate temporary or permanent stabilization measures shall
include seeding, mulching, sodding, and/or nonvegetative measures.
      2.   Areas having slopes greater than twelve percent (12%) shall be
stabilized with sod, mat or blanket in combination with seeding, or equivalent.
   D.   Land disturbance activities in stream channels shall be avoided, where
possible. If disturbance activities are unavoidable, the following requirements
shall be met:
      1.   Construction vehicles shall be kept out of the stream channel to the
maximum extent practicable. Where construction crossings are necessary,
temporary crossings shall be constructed of nonerosive material, such as riprap
or gravel.
      2.   The time and area of disturbance of stream channels shall be kept to
a minimum. The stream channel, including bed and banks, shall be restabilized
within forty eight (48) hours after channel disturbance is completed,
interrupted, or stopped.
      3.   Whenever channel relocation is necessary, the new channel shall be
constructed dry and fully stabilized before flow is diverted.
   E.   Storm sewer inlets and culverts shall be protected by sediment traps or
filter barriers meeting accepted design standards and specifications.
   F.   Soil storage piles containing more than ten (10) cubic yards of
material shall not be located with a downslope drainage length of less than
twenty five feet (25') to a roadway or drainage channel. Filter barriers,
including straw bales, filter fence, or equivalent, shall be installed
immediately on the downslope side of the piles.
   G.   If dewatering devices are used, discharge locations shall be protected
from erosion. All pumped discharges shall be routed through appropriately
designed sediment traps or basins, or equivalent.
   H.   Each site shall have graveled (or equivalent) entrance roads, access
drives, and parking areas of sufficient length and width to prevent sediment
from being tracked onto public or private roadways. Any sediment reaching a
public or private road shall be removed by shoveling or street cleaning (not
flushing) before the end of each workday and transported to a controlled
sediment disposal area.
   I.   All temporary and permanent erosion and sediment control practices must
be maintained and repaired as needed to assure effective performance of their
intended function.
   J.   All temporary erosion and sediment control measures shall be disposed
of within thirty (30) days after final site stabilization is achieved with
permanent soil stabilization measures. Trapped sediment and other disturbed
soils resulting from the disposition of temporary measures should be
permanently stabilized to prevent further erosion and sedimentation. (Ord. 97-
4, 2-20-1997)
15-3-4: HANDBOOKS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The standards and specifications contained in Standards and Specifications for
Soil Erosion and Sediment Control (the Yellow Book) and the Illinois Procedures
and Standards for Urban Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control (the Green Book)
cited in subsection 15-2-4A4c of this Chapter, are hereby incorporated into
this Section and made a part hereof by reference for the purpose of delineating
procedures and methods of operation under site development and erosion and
sedimentation control plans approved under Article II of this Chapter. In the
event of conflict between provisions of said manuals and of this Chapter, this
Chapter shall govern. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-3-5: MAINTENANCE OF CONTROL MEASURES:
All soil erosion and sediment control measures necessary to meet the
requirements of this Article shall be maintained periodically by the applicant
or subsequent land owner during the period of land disturbance and development
of the site in a satisfactory manner to ensure adequate performance. (Ord. 97-
4, 2-20-1997)
15-3-6: INSPECTION:
The Village Engineer shall make inspections as hereinafter required and shall
either approve that portion of the work completed or shall notify the permittee
wherein the work fails to comply with the site development or erosion and
sedimentation control plan as approved.
   A.   Plans for grading, stripping, excavating, and filling work bearing the
stamp of approval of the Village Engineer shall be maintained at the site
during progress of the work.
   B.   In order to obtain inspections and to ensure compliance with the
approved erosion and sediment control plan, the grading or building permit, and
this Chapter, the permittee shall notify the Village Engineer within two (2)
working days of the completion of the construction stages specified below:
      1.   Upon completion of installation of sediment and runoff control
measures (including perimeter controls and diversions), prior to proceeding
with any other earth disturbance or grading;
      2.   After stripping and clearing;
      3.   After rough grading;
      4.   After final grading;
      5.   After seeding and landscaping deadlines; and
      6.   After final stabilization and landscaping prior to removal of
sediment controls.
   C.   If stripping, clearing, grading and/or landscaping are to be done in
phases or areas, the permittee shall give notice and request inspection at the
completion of each of the above work stages in each phase or area.
   D.   If an inspection is not made and notification of the results given
within five (5) working days after notice is received by the Village from the
permittee, the permittee may continue work at his/her own risk, without
presuming acceptance by the Village.
   E.   Notification of the results of the inspection shall be given in writing
at the site. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-3-7: SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS:
   A.   If at any state of the grading of any development site the Village
Engineer determines by inspection that the nature of the site is such that
further work authorized by an existing permit is likely to imperil any
property, public way, stream, lake, wetland, or drainage structure, the Village
Engineer may require, as a condition of allowing the work to be done, that such
reasonable special precautions to be taken as is considered advisable to avoid
the likelihood of such peril.
      1.   "Special precautions" may include, but shall not be limited to, a
more level exposed slope, construction of additional drainage facilities,
berms, terracing, compaction, or cribbing, installation of plant materials for
erosion control, and recommendations of a registered soils engineer and/or
engineering geologist which may be made requirements for further work.
      2.   Where it appears that storm damage may result because the grading on
any development site is not complete, work may be stopped and the permittee
required to install temporary structures or take such other measures as may be
required to protect adjoining property or the public safety.
      3.   On large developments or where unusual site conditions prevail, the
Village Engineer may specify the time of starting grading and time of
completion or may require that the operations be conducted in specific stages
so as to ensure completion of protective measures or devices prior to the
advent of seasonal rains. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-3-8: AMENDMENT OF PLANS:
Major amendments of the site development or erosion and sedimentation control
plans shall be submitted to the Village Engineer and shall be processed and
approved or disapproved in the same manner as the original plans. Field
modifications of a minor nature may be authorized by the Village Engineer by
written authorization to the permittee. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
ARTICLE IV
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
15-4-1: Enforcement
15-4-2: Appeals
15-4-3: Conferences
15-4-4: Fees
15-4-5: Violations And Penalties
15-4-1: ENFORCEMENT:
The administration and enforcement of this Chapter shall be the responsibility
of the Village or its authorized representatives. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-4-2: APPEALS:
Any applicant may appeal any decision of the Village Engineer to the Village
Board of Trustees, provided that no such appeal shall be taken until and unless
the applicant has requested a conference with the Village Engineer, not a
subordinate of the Village Engineer, and either the conference has been held or
the Village Engineer has not scheduled a conference. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-4-3: CONFERENCES:
At any time an applicant may ask for a conference with the Village Engineer
concerning any application under this Chapter, and the Village Engineer will
meet with the applicant to discuss the matter. If an applicant has been dealing
with any person working under the supervision of the Village Engineer, at the
applicant's request the Village Engineer and not a subordinate will hold a
conference with the applicant. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-4-4: FEES:
   A.   Engineering review, legal and construction observation fees are the
responsibility of the applicant.
   B.   A five hundred dollar ($500.00) cash deposit is required prior to the
initiation of review and will be subject to adjustment after the initial
review. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
15-4-5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair or maintain any
grading, excavation or fill, or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in
violation of any terms of this Chapter.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each day during which any violation of any
of the provisions of this Chapter is committed, continued, or permitted shall
constitute a separate offense.
   C.   Upon conviction of any such violation, such person shall be punished by
a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
   D.   In addition to any other penalty authorized by this Section, any
person, partnership or corporation convicted of violating any of the provisions
of this Chapter shall be required to restore the site to the condition existing
prior to commission of the violation, or to bear the expense of such
restoration. (Ord. 97-4, 2-20-1997)
CHAPTER 16
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS 1
Historic Preservation Commission   I
 
Notes
  1. See also Sections
1 3-1-3,
  6-14-3 and
  6-14-4 of this Code.
ARTICLE I
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
16-1-1: Purpose
16-1-2: Historic Preservation Commission
16-1-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this Article is to promote the protection, enhancement,
perpetuation, and use of improvements of special character or historical
interest or value in the interest of the health, prosperity, safety, and
welfare of the people of the Village by:
      1.   Providing a mechanism to identify and preserve the historic and
architectural characteristics of Hampshire, which represents elements of the
Village's cultural, social, economic, political and architectural history.
      2.   To promote civic pride in the beauty and noble accomplishments of
the past as represented in Hampshire's landmarks and historic districts.
      3.   Stabilizing and improving the economic vitality and value of
Hampshire's landmarks and historic areas.
      4.   Protecting and enhancing the attractiveness of the Village to have
buyers, visitors and shoppers and thereby supporting business, commerce,
industry, and providing economic benefit to the Village.
      5.   Fostering and encouraging preservation, restoration of structures,
areas, and neighborhoods and thereby preventing future urban blight. (Ord. 00-
01, 2-17-2000)
16-1-2: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created an Historic Preservation Commission
in the Village.
   B.   Members: The Commission shall consist of five (5) members, three (3) of
whom must be residents of the Village, appointed by the Mayor and approved by
the Village Council.
      1.   One of the members shall be a member of the Hampshire Main Street
Design Committee.
      2.   The remaining members shall be appointed on the basis of expertise,
experience or interest in the area of architectural history, building
construction or engineering, historical and architectural preservation,
neighborhood organizing or real estate.
   C.   Terms Of Office: Members of the Commission shall be appointed for terms
of three (3) years. Of those members first taking office, one shall be
appointed for one year, two (2) for two (2) years, and two (2) for three (3)
years. No member shall serve more than two (2) successive three (3) year terms.
Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term only. Members shall serve
without compensation.
   D.   Officers: Officers shall consist of a chairman, vice chairman, and a
secretary elected by the Preservation Commission. Officers shall serve a term
of one year; no member shall serve in any one office for more than two (2)
consecutive years.
      1.   The chairman shall preside over meetings.
      2.   In the absence of the chairman, the vice chairman shall perform the
duties of the chairman.
      3.   If both are absent, those present shall elect a temporary chairman.
      4.   The secretary to the Preservation Commission shall have the
following duties:
         a.   Take minutes of each Preservation Commission meeting.
         b.   Be responsible for publication and distribution of copies of the
minutes, reports, and decisions of the Preservation Commission to the members
of the Preservation Commission.
         c.   Give notice as provided herein or by law for all public hearings
conducted by the Preservation Commission.
         d.   Advise the Mayor of vacancies on the Preservation Commission and
expiring terms of members; and
         e.   Prepare and submit to the Village Council a complete record of
the proceedings before the Preservation Commission on any matter requiring
Council consideration.
   E.   Meetings: Meetings shall be held at regularly scheduled times to be
established by resolution of the Commission at the beginning of each calendar
year or at any time upon the call of the chairman. There shall be a minimum of
four (4) meetings per year.
      1.   At all meetings, a quorum shall consist of a majority of the
members. All decisions or actions of the Historic Preservation Commission shall
be made by a majority vote of those members present and voting at any meeting
where a quorum exists.
      2.   All meetings of the Preservation Commission shall be open to the
public. The Preservation Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Village Clerk and shall be a public record.
   F.   Powers And Duties: The Commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
      1.   To adopt its own procedural regulations.
      2.   To conduct an ongoing survey to identify historically and
architecturally significant properties, structures and areas.
      3.   To recommend to the Village Board of Trustees procedures to protect
properties or structures having special historic, community, or architectural
value.
      4.   To determine an appropriate system of markers and make
recommendations for the design and implementation of specific markings of
properties or structures which have special historic, community, or
architectural value.
      5.   To advise property owners on physical and financial aspects of
preservation, renovation, rehabilitation, and reuse, and on procedures for
inclusion on the County, State or National Register of Historic Places.
      6.   To inform and educate the citizens of Hampshire concerning the
historic and architectural heritage of the Village by publishing appropriate
maps, newsletters, brochures, and pamphlets, and by holding programs and
seminars.
      7.   To accept and administer on behalf of the Village, upon the specific
designation of the corporate authorities, such gifts, grants and money as may
be appropriate.
      8.   To testify before all boards and commissions, including the Village
Planning and Zoning Commission, on any matter affecting historically and
architecturally significant properties.
      9.   To periodically review the Hampshire Zoning Ordinance and to
recommend to the Village Planning and Zoning Commission and the Village Board
any amendments appropriate for the protection and continued use of historically
or architecturally significant properties.
   G.   Survey And Research: The Historic Preservation Commission shall
undertake an ongoing survey and research effort in the Village to identify
neighborhoods, areas, sites, structures, and objects that have historic,
community, architectural, or aesthetic importance, interest, or value. The
Historic Preservation Commission shall consider the following criteria:
      1.   Architecturally or historically significant properties in one
identifiable neighborhood or distinct geographical area of the Village.
      2.   Association with a particular person, event, or historical period.
      3.   Representation of a particular architectural style or school, or of
a particular architect, engineer, builder, designer or craftsman.
      4.   Such other criteria as may be adopted by the Preservation Commission
to assure systematic survey of all significant properties within the Village.
(Ord. 00-01, 2-17-2000; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-15-2021)
CHAPTER 17
POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITIES
Procedures For Local Siting Approval   I
ARTICLE I
PROCEDURES FOR LOCAL SITING APPROVAL
SECTION:
17-1-1: Applicability
17-1-2: Definitions
17-1-3: Petitions
17-1-4: Payment And Administration Of Costs
17-1-5: Participants
17-1-6: Public Hearing
17-1-7: Public Comment; Written And Oral
17-1-8: The Public Record
17-1-9: Decision By The Board Of Trustees
17-1-1: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   This article is applicable to a request for site location approval of a
new pollution control facility that does not handle hazardous waste as defined
by the Illinois environmental protection act.
   B.   To the extent a facility, described in a petition, proposes to handle
or manage material that is not a waste, or proposes to conduct an activity
which is excluded from the Illinois environmental protection act's definition
of a pollution control facility, or proposes to conduct an activity which does
not require a permit from the Illinois environmental protection agency, this
article does not govern the petition, and authorization to locate such a
facility shall be determined by other provisions in this code, including, but
not limited to, those related to zoning, special use, building or environmental
requirements, as applicable.
   C.   The terms of this article do not constitute or imply a policy decision
by the village concerning siting pollution control facilities of any kind
within the village, but exist to guide the village in the fulfillment of its
statutory duties with respect to requests for local siting location approval.
(Ord. 07-50, 11-1-2007)
17-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
All words used in this article shall have the same meaning and definition as
set forth in the environmental protection act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes
415/1 et seq. (hereinafter the "act"), unless otherwise set forth hereinbelow.
Defined terms in this article need not be capitalized to have the meaning
prescribed to them in this section or the act.
ACT: The environmental protection act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 415/1 et
seq.
APPLICANT: Any person, group of persons, partnership, firm, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind that files an application for
local siting approval pursuant to this article.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The board of trustees of the village.
FACILITY: A new pollution control facility as defined in the act.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: As defined by the act.
HAZARDOUS WASTE SITE: A site where hazardous waste is received, stored,
treated, dumped or disposed.
HEARING OFFICER: An attorney, licensed to practice in the state of Illinois,
appointed by the village president to conduct the public hearing(s) associated
with a siting petition.
IEPA: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
PETITION: The application filed by the applicant requesting site approval for a
facility.
VILLAGE: The village of Hampshire, Illinois. (Ord. 07-50, 11-1-2007)
17-1-3: PETITIONS:
   A.   Filing:
      1.   The applicant shall file one original and twenty (20) copies of the
petition with the village clerk, in the form described in this section.
      2.   The applicant shall include, with the filing of the petition, the
deposit required to pay and/or reimburse fees and costs incurred by the
village, as prescribed in this article.
   B.   Processing: Upon receiving the petition, the village clerk shall do the
following:
      1.   Date as "received" any petition that is presented with the correct
number of copies, and in the form as required, and with the application deposit
described in this article.
         a.   Receipt and acceptance of a petition by the village clerk is pro
forma only, and does not constitute an acknowledgment that the applicant has
complied with the act or this article.
         b.   Should the petition be presented to the village clerk without the
correct number of copies, or in the incorrect form and/or without the required
deposit, the village clerk may refuse to file the petition.
      2.   Upon the presentation of a petition to the village clerk, the
village clerk shall promptly deliver one copy to the village administrator, for
review as to content and completeness.
         a.   If the petition is found by the village administrator to be
complete, he shall direct the village clerk to file it.
         b.   If the petition is found by the village administrator to be
incomplete, he shall notate the deficiencies and promptly notify the applicant
of same in writing.
         c.   The applicant shall remedy the deficiencies and may present the
amended petition to the village for review. Once the petition is found by the
village administrator to be complete, he shall direct the village clerk to file
it.
      3.   Upon the filing of a complete application, the village clerk shall
then:
         a.   Date the petition as "filed"; the date or receipt noted by the
village clerk shall be considered the official filing date for all purposes
relating to the time of filing.
         b.   Distribute copies of the petition to the following parties in the
following number(s): one copy to the village president; one copy to each
trustee; one copy to the village attorney; one copy to the village engineer;
one copy to the finance director; one copy to the police chief; one copy to the
superintendent/director of public works; one copy to the Hampshire township
fire protection district; two (2) copies to the hearing officer, and one copy
to the local public library (for review by the public).
         c.   The original petition and two (2) copies shall be maintained by
the village clerk.
      4.   The village clerk shall make available a copy of the petition and
any documents related thereto for public inspection during the normal business
hours of the village clerk's office. In addition, the village clerk shall
provide to any person so requesting copies of the petition or any such
documents, and upon payment of the actual cost of reproduction pursuant to 415
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/39.2.
   C.   Form Of Petition:
      1.   A petition shall be presented for filing both in writing and in an
electronic PDF format compatible with the computer system utilized by the
village.
      2.   The pages of the petition and all exhibits, including any pages
intentionally left blank, shall be consecutively numbered, with appropriate
dividers for each section and/or exhibit in the application.
   D.   Content Of Petitions: The quality and quantity of information to be
included in a petition is to be determined solely by the applicant, as it is
the applicant's burden to demonstrate that the siting criteria set forth in
section 39.2 of the act are met. However, for purposes of this article, a
petition shall contain, at a minimum, the following documents and information,
in addition to what the applicant submits in support of the section 39.2
criteria, together with citations to the primary source of data, to the extent
such documents and information are based on other information or data; and
considering that it is intended that the applicant provide a full and complete
disclosure of his or her case to facilitate early review and analysis of the
application by members of the public and by all participants:
      1.   Name and current address of the applicant, all owners of the subject
property and the operator for the proposed facility.
         a.   If the proposed site is owned by a land trust, identify each
beneficiary of the land trust by name and current address, and the extent of
the interest of each.
         b.   If the applicant is not the property owner, indicate whether or
not the applicant is to purchase or lease the site.
         c.   Also indicate whether the applicant, the owner of the subject
property, and/or the operator is a corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, or other entity, an individual or a unit of government.
            (1)   In the case of a partnership, submit the names of all
partners.
            (2)   In the case of a corporation, submit the names and addresses
of all officers and directors, and the names and addresses of all shareholders
owning five percent (5%) or more of the capital stock of the corporation.
            (3)   In the case of a limited liability company or other entity,
submit the names and addresses of all members or other participants.
            (4)   In the case of a corporation, attach as exhibits the articles
of incorporation; of a limited liability company or other entity, the document
of registration with the Illinois secretary of state, together with a certified
copy from the secretary of state of the entity's good standing in the state.
      2.   In regard to the proposed operator of the proposed facility:
         a.   The audited financial statements of the proposed operator of the
proposed facility for the three (3) years preceding the time of application, or
the total number of years the entity has been in existence, whichever is less.
Provided, if the proposed operator has no audited financial statements, then
pro forma statements for the same time period as required for audited
statements.
         b.   For any corporation, limited liability company, or other entity
registered with the state, a certificate of good standing issued by the
Illinois secretary of state; and as to any person or entity doing business
under an assumed name, a certificate confirming registration of same with Kane
County.
      3.   A plat of survey of the boundaries of the proposed facility and/or
subject property including the legal description of the proposed site, a street
address and property index number(s), as well as other reasonable description
of where the proposed site is located.
      4.   A brief narrative description of the proposed facility, its
operation, the estimated quantity of waste to be handled at the site, and the
expected longevity thereof.
      5.   Identification of the area to be served by the proposed facility, a
map showing the extent of the service area the facility is intended to serve,
and a statement of the need for the identified area for such a facility.
      6.   The expected types, amounts and methods of treatment, disposal,
consolidation, transfer or storage of all wastes proposed for the site.
      7.   Reasons supporting approval of the application.
      8.   A request for site approval.
      9.   Proof of notice, pursuant to section 39.2 of the act.
      10.   A site plan showing details of the proposed facility, including:
         a.   Location of property lines of neighboring properties and
properties whose owners were provided notice pursuant to subsection 39.2(b) of
the act;
         b.   Any existing uses on the site which will be continued;
         c.   Engineering cross sections;
         d.   Roads, entrances and driveways;
         e.   Surface water drainage systems and ways shown on public records
within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of the property line of the
proposed site, including, but not limited to, drain tiles, creeks, etc.;
         f.   Existing and proposed utility lines (identified as such and
identified as to type of utility), indicating which are above and which are
below the ground;
         g.   Fences, buildings, other structures and berms and landscaping;
         h.   Existing and proposed underground or aboveground storage tanks
(identified as such), identifying, if applicable, any of same which are known
to be out of operation or abandoned;
         i.   All known and proposed wells (identified as such), whether
potable, monitoring or other, within the proposed site and within one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500') of the property line(s) of the proposed site;
         j.   Any information to demonstrate that the proposed facility is so
designed, located and proposed to be operated in such a manner that the public
health, safety and welfare will be protected, in addition to that which has
been provided already pursuant to this article.
      11.   A description of the general characteristics of the site
(industrial park, open field, gravel pit, quarry, strip mine, swamp,
floodplain, etc.).
      12.   A statement of the plan of operation for the proposed facility,
including, but not limited to, the following (where applicable):
         a.   Type of facility, including method of transfer or, if applicable,
landfilling, incineration, resource recovery or other proposed storage,
process, treatment or management, and the proposed layout of the site,
including identification of the location of proposed buildings or other above
or below ground structures, and identification of the location of any proposed
process flows, storage, treatment, disposal, consolidation, or other waste
management activity;
         b.   Description of the design criteria and design features of the
facility, where applicable, including:
            (1)   Leachate collection system.
               (A)   Type, location and construction of the subsurface
collection system;
               (B)   Written narrative describing methods and processes of the
collection, management and treatment of the leachate;
               (C)   Program for monitoring effectiveness of the collection,
management and treatment of the leachate; and
               (D)   Discharge points of effluent.
            (2)   Drainage and erosion control, including a description of the
type, location and design of drainage and erosion control devices.
            (3)   All monitoring systems, including, but not limited to, ground
water, surface water, and air.
               (A)   Techniques, location and construction;
               (B)   Frequency of sampling and analysis;
               (C)   Future corrective action program.
            (4)   Surface water control.
            (5)   Air emissions control.
            (6)   Final cover system, including proposed soil and/or
geomembrane specifications if applicable.
            (7)   Facility construction quality assurance and quality control
program.
               (A)   Hours of operation;
               (B)   Personnel;
               (C)   Both on site and off site litter, vector, dust, odor and
noise control;
               (D)   Fire control;
               (E)   Corrective actions for spills and other operational
accidents;
               (F)   If applicable, the stages of development or use;
               (G)   If applicable, an end use plan;
               (H)   Operating procedures including:
                  (i)   Personnel requirements, including number of full and
part time employees, which personnel positions and in what numbers are
considered minimally necessary for facility operation, and the training and
supervision of employees. In addition, identify whether the proposed facility
intends on utilizing any contract or temporary employees and, if so, the
positions those employees would fill, the training requirements and supervision
of such employees, and whether they would be considered minimally necessary for
the facility operation.
                  (ii)   Plans for chemical analysis of waste.
                  (iii)   Plans for identification and verification of waste.
                  (iv)   Plans for identification of unacceptable waste, soils
or other material and removal of same.
                  (v)   Leachate collection, management and treatment system or
plan.
                  (vi)   Noise control.
                  (vii)   Operation of air emission monitoring system.
                  (viii)   Facility cleaning and maintenance, including, but
not limited to, the interior floor.
                  (ix)   For each type of waste proposed to be received for
storage, treatment, management, consolidation or disposal, provide: the maximum
daily and annual receipt and throughput, and the expected types of sources for
such waste within the proposed area to be served.
      13.   A map showing on site roadways, vehicle and direction flow signage
and road markings, vehicle staging and parking areas, and a description of the
plan of operation with respect to moving vehicular traffic on site, including,
but not limited to, on site traffic flow direction and control.
      14.   A closure plan, including satisfactory proof of financial
responsibility therefor.
      15.   A traffic study in accordance with guidelines recommended by the
Institute of Transportation Engineers regarding the proposed site, including
the anticipated number of vehicles, their size, weight and direction of
movement, and a copy of any driveway permit.
         a.   Included in this study, state the number and type of each vehicle
expected or intended to enter or exit the facility, by each hour of the day.
         b.   If the number of vehicles is expected or intended to be greater
or less on particular days of the week, identify those days, the numbers of
vehicles, and where it includes vehicles other than passenger vehicles, include
the hourly analysis for each day of the week.
      16.   All physical evidence, including, but not limited to, studies,
maps, reports, permits or exhibits that the applicant desires the village to
consider at the public hearing.
      17.   A certificate of or commitment for insurance verifying the
insurance policies carried or to be carried by the applicant to cover single
accidents, such as fires, explosions, and nonsudden accidental occurrences,
whether such accidents occur at the proposed site or while waste is being
transported to or from the proposed site.
      18.   A statement describing the past operating experience of the
applicant (and any subsidiary, parent corporation, or subsidiary of the parent
corporation), in the field of solid waste management and identify all such
experience in the state of Illinois.
      19.   A statement identifying the past record of convictions of the
applicant, including, but not limited to, any individual conviction of its
current officers and directors, concerning a violation of the act or any
federal environmental law, a description of enforcement actions or lawsuits
brought, if any, by government entity or any person, and remedial action taken,
if any, as a result of, in conjunction with, or as part of a settlement of any
conviction or admission of violation.
      20.   A statement regarding adjacent and nearby land uses, and a
description of the manner in the proposed facility would be located so as to
minimize incompatibility with the character of the surrounding area and to
minimize the effect on the values of the surrounding property, providing
documentation detailing:
         a.   Property values of surrounding property, and a property value
impact analysis conducted by a certified real estate appraiser.
         b.   Topographic survey of existing site.
         c.   Final design grades.
         d.   Surrounding zoning and land uses within one mile of the property
line of the site, including identification of any surface or subsurface mining
activities in the area, residential (single-family or multiple-family) housing
areas, schools, hospitals, nursing or extended care facilities, daycare or
other childcare facilities, historic, architectural or archaeological
landmarks.
         e.   Proposed use after operation (i.e., end use), including changes
in topography and all proposed new surface features.
         f.   A description of how the applicant will minimize the effect of
traffic flow to and from the proposed facility vis-a-vis the character and
property values of the area through which the traffic is proposed to pass.
         g.   A description of the external materials to be used in
construction of the proposed facility.
         h.   A description of any proposed landscaping or facility screening.
      21.   A statement as to whether the facility is located outside the
boundary of the 100-year floodplain or whether the site is floodproofed, and
documentation supporting such statement.
      22.   Documentation detailing compliance of the proposed facility with
all applicable storm water ordinances.
      23.   As to whether the plan of operation for the facility is so designed
to minimize the danger to the surrounding area from fire, spills or other
operational accidents, at a minimum, documentation detailing:
         a.   Accident prevention plan, including plans for spill control and
containment;
         b.   Fire prevention plan;
         c.   Proposed responses to spills and other operational accidents.
      24.   An emergency response plan for the proposed site, including, but
not limited to, documentation detailing procedures to be used in case of a
release or spill, as to:
         a.   Notification of appropriate agencies and personnel;
         b.   Containment procedures;
         c.   Evacuation procedures for the facility and the surrounding area.
      25.   A copy of any proposed or final agreement for host fees or any
incentives offered or agreed to by the applicant with the village.
      26.   Signatures of the applicant, the landowner(s), the operator, an
engineer registered in the state of Illinois under the Illinois professional
engineering practice act, a land surveyor and any other technical consultant
responsible for drafting all or any portion of the petition. The application
shall also state a contact address, a phone number and an e-mail address for
each person named.
   E.   Amended Application: At any time prior to completion by the applicant
of the presentation of the applicant's factual evidence and an opportunity for
cross questioning by the village board and any participants, the applicant may
file not more than one amended application, upon payment of the additional
deposit described in this article. (Ord. 07-50, 11-1-2007)
17-1-4: PAYMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF COSTS:
   A.   Costs And Fees Deposit:
      1.   At the time of filing a petition, the applicant shall submit to the
village clerk a costs and fees deposit in the form of a certified or cashier's
check made payable to "Village of Hampshire", to pay or reimburse the
reasonable and necessary fees and costs incurred by the village in processing
and responding to the petition, including, but not limited to: village employee
or staff review time, legal fees, expert witness fees, scientific testing,
records or other investigations, data searches, notices, court reporters,
transcription costs, consultants, as well as the cost of providing an
appropriate forum for the hearing, the hearing officer's expenses and fees, and
any other expenses incurred by the village in conducting its review of the
petition, the public hearing, the village's site location decision, and any
appeal to the Illinois pollution control board ("IPCB"), the appellate or
supreme court of the state of Illinois, any federal court, or any legal action
concerning the siting approval process and/or the interpretation of this
article relating to the siting application or process.
      2.   The initial deposit shall be one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) or such lesser amount as may be specified by the village
administrator in light of the type of pollution control facility for which the
petition has been filed.
   B.   Additional Initial Costs And Fees Deposit: In the event the applicant
files an application for amendment in accordance with 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/39.2(e), an additional deposit of twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) shall be delivered to the village clerk at the same time as the
filing of the amendment, and such deposit shall be in the same form as
described in this section.
   C.   Payment Of Fees And Expenses: All fees and expenses incurred by the
village as described in this section shall be paid from the deposit as provided
herein:
      1.   Records of village incurred fees and costs, including, but not
limited to, relevant time records of village employees and staff, and village
consultants, to the extent the village is seeking reimbursement of their time,
are to be submitted to the finance director at the direction of the village
administrator.
      2.   The village shall organize the records and prepare and submit
periodic reports to the board of trustees, village clerk and the applicant, of
expenses incurred by the village.
         a.   Any and all privileged or confidential information may be
redacted from copies of any invoices and bills submitted to the village and
included in the report submitted to the board of trustees, village clerk and
applicant.
         b.   Inadvertent disclosure of any confidential or privileged
information by the village shall not be deemed to be, and is not, a waiver of
confidentiality or privilege.
      3.   Upon approval of each such report by the board of trustees, the
finance director may draw upon the applicant's deposit in the amount of the
approved fees and costs, or as otherwise provided by the board of trustees.
      4.   In determining the fees to be paid to the village to reimburse the
village for its employees' or staff's time involved in matters concerning the
petition, the village shall determine a rate for each employee who submits a
record of his or her time, including in such rate all costs of the village in
compensating such employee or staff member, such as salary, wages or benefits.
The rate calculated per employee shall be included in each report required
under this section.
      5.   At any time the amount on deposit with the village falls to or below
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), then, upon written demand from the village
administrator, the applicant shall deposit, within five (5) business days of
receipt of the demand, an additional fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00). Any
unpaid amount shall constitute a debt and the village shall recover its costs
and attorney fees, if it is required to make a claim or commence a suit against
the applicant to recover the unpaid fees.
      6.   Any portion of the applicant's deposit that remains unexpended at
the conclusion of the local site location review process (including all appeals
and resolution of any applicant challenge to fees or costs) shall be returned
to the applicant. The amount to be returned under this section shall not
include any interest which may have accumulated during the time the funds were
held on deposit by the village. (Ord. 07-50, 11-1-2007)
17-1-5: PARTICIPANTS:
   A.   The Applicant: The applicant is a participant.
   B.   The Village: The village, its employees and staff, and any experts,
consultants, investigators or attorneys hired by the village to review,
investigate, present at hearing, or otherwise work for the village concerning
the petition, are participants.
   C.   Other Governmental Entities: Members or representatives of the county
board of the county in which the proposed site is to be located, and members or
representatives of the governing authority of any municipality contiguous to
the proposed site, or contiguous to the village, are participants.
   D.   Notice Of Participation:
      1.   Any person, other than the applicant and the village, who desires to
participate in the hearing by presentation of evidence or right to cross
examine any witness, must file a written notification of intent to participate
("notice of participation" form) with the village clerk, either prior to the
start of the first day of public hearing, or after the commencement, but before
adjournment, of the first day of the public hearing.
      2.   To the extent any village employee and staff member may wish to
participate in the public hearing outside of his/her role or employment with
the village, he or she must submit a notice of participation form, as would any
other member of the public.
      3.   Such notification shall state, at a minimum, the name, address,
daytime phone number and, if available, facsimile number and e-mail address of
the person filing the notice of participation, whether the person will be
participating on his or her own behalf or as a representative/spokesperson of
another person or entity (and if on behalf of another person or entity,
identifying the name of that person or entity), whether the person (or the
entity or association he/she represents) will be represented by an attorney
during the public hearing, and whether the person intends on providing oral
testimony of himself or any witness, or other evidence, or any comment during
the public hearing.
      4.   A person may not become a participant after the first day of the
hearing except upon written request to and in the discretion of the hearing
officer. Provided, the hearing officer shall liberally interpret this
limitation, considering if the additional participation will not delay the
process or unfairly prejudice a prior participant.
      5.   No late participant shall be entitled to re-call any witness whose
testimony has been concluded, whether for direct testimony or cross
examination.
   E.   Participant Rights: Participants shall have the right to:
      1.   Present sworn testimony and witnesses;
      2.   Provide unsworn, oral comment during the public hearing (subject to
the hearing officer's judgment and consistent with fundamental fairness);
      3.   Cross examine or question witnesses who provide sworn testimony or,
alternatively, submit to the hearing officer written questions to be asked of
the witnesses by the hearing officer, at the hearing officer's discretion as to
whether and how such written questions are to be posed.
   F.   Attorneys: Any attorney representing a participant must be licensed and
in good standing to practice law in the state of Illinois, or if licensed and
in good standing to practice law in another state in the United States, shall
be allowed to appear as an attorney for a participant upon motion made to and
granted by the hearing officer. Any such attorney shall file an appearance form
with the village clerk, identifying himself or herself, and the participant
whom he/she is representing.
   G.   Unsworn Comments: Any person, including any village employee or staff
member acting outside of his or her role or employment with the village, may
provide unsworn public comment during the hearing, subject to the hearing
officer's discretion and consistent with fundamental fairness, upon filing with
the hearing officer a "speaker form" indicating the desire to provide such
comment. Unsworn comments shall not be subject to cross examination. (Ord. 07-
50, 11-1-2007)
17-1-6: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   No sooner than ninety (90) days but no longer than one hundred twenty
(120) days from the date the petition was filed with the village clerk, a
public hearing shall be conducted by the board of trustees.
   B.   Within forty nine (49) days of the filing date of the petition, the
village president shall determine the date, time and location upon which such
public hearing shall be held, but in any event the public hearing must be
scheduled to commence no sooner than ninety (90) days but no later than one
hundred twenty (120) days from the date the petition was filed with the village
clerk.
   C.   Upon such determination of the hearing date, time and location, the
village president shall notify the village clerk of the date upon which such
hearing shall be held and shall request the village clerk to cause notice of
such hearing to be published and given in accordance with the provisions of
this section.
   D.   Upon receipt of such request, the village clerk shall cause a notice of
the public hearing to be published pursuant to the following requirements:
      1.   By publication of legal notice, not less than fourteen (14) days
prior to the date of the public hearing, in a newspaper of general circulation
published in Kane County.
      2.   Such notice shall consist of the information required under 415
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/39.2, including, but not limited to, the
following:
         a.   The name and address of the person or entity requesting site
location approval;
         b.   The name and address of the owner of the site, and in case
ownership is in a land trust, the names of its beneficiaries;
         c.   The legal description of the site;
         d.   The street address of the property, and if there is no street
address applicable to the property, a description of the site with reference to
location, ownership, occupancy or in some other manner that will reasonably
identify the property to residents in the vicinity;
         e.   The nature and size of the proposed facility;
         f.   The nature of the activity proposed;
         g.   The probable life of the proposed activity and facility;
         h.   The date and time of the public hearing;
         i.   The location of the public hearing;
         j.   A statement that all copies of evidence other than oral testimony
to be submitted at the public hearing must be filed with the village clerk not
less than the close of business seven (7) days prior to the date the public
hearing will commence; provided, the hearing officer may permit late filing of
such evidence, but only for good cause shown and without prejudice to the
participants;
         k.   A statement that any person desiring to present sworn testimony
or cross examine any witness must file with the village clerk a notice of
participation form no later than the first day of the public hearing, or in the
alternative, no later than the adjournment of the first day of the public
hearing; provided, the hearing officer may permit late filing of a notice of
participation but only for good cause shown and without prejudice to the
participants; and
         l.   A statement that any person may provide unsworn public comment
during the hearing, subject to the discretion of the hearing officer and
consistent with fundamental fairness, and that any such person must file with
the hearing officer a "speaker form" prior to requesting to provide such
unsworn comment.
      3.   A copy of the notice shall also be delivered in accordance with the
requirements of 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/39.2, by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the following persons, not later than fourteen
(14) days prior to the public hearing date:
         a.   All members of the general assembly from the district in which
the proposed facility is to be located;
         b.   The Illinois environmental protection agency;
         c.   The governing authority of every municipality whose corporate
limits are either contiguous to the proposed site, or contiguous to the
village; and
         d.   The county board of the county where the proposed site is to be
located.
      4.   Additional notice of the public hearing may, at the discretion of
the village president, be given by publishing, in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village, notice as a display ad at least once during the
week preceding the public hearing.
   E.   At any time after filing of the application, and in any event, prior to
the date of the first public hearing, the village president shall appoint a
hearing officer to conduct the public hearing on the petition.
      1.   The hearing officer shall preside over the public hearing and shall
make any decisions concerning the admission of evidence and the manner in which
the hearing is conducted, subject to this section and the law concerning such
applications.
      2.   All decisions and rulings shall be in accordance with the concept of
fundamental fairness (unless prior to the commencement of the public hearing a
different standard is adopted as a matter of Illinois law).
      3.   The hearing officer may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly
repetitious testimony or evidence.
      4.   Rulings of the hearing officer shall not be appealable to the board
of trustees; provided, however, a participant may request that the hearing
officer reconsider a ruling after consultation with the board of trustees.
      5.   All testimony and all public meetings concerning the petition shall
be in the presence of a certified court reporter who shall report all
proceedings regarding consideration of the petition.
      6.   The hearing officer shall have the following powers or duties:
         a.   Administer oaths and affirmations.
         b.   Prior to the start of the public hearing, conduct a public
meeting (the "prehearing meeting") to explain the public hearing procedure and
site location review process. Provided, the hearing officer shall direct that
notice of such prehearing conference be published in a newspaper of general
circulation not less than one week prior to such meeting, stating that such
meeting shall be for informational purposes only concerning the procedure to be
used at the public hearing and the local siting approval process in general,
and that it is not a public hearing at which evidence or comment will be taken
for purposes of making a determination in accordance with the act; or for any
other purpose.
         c.   Arrange for the presence of a certified court reporter to attend
and transcribe the conduct of all public hearings for the public record.
         d.   Regulate the course of the hearing, including, but not limited
to, controlling the order of proceedings, consistent with this article.
         e.   Require a person presenting unsworn oral comment to state his or
her position either for, against or undecided with respect to the proposed
facility.
         f.   Examine a witness and direct a witness to testify.
         g.   Establish reasonable limits on the duration of the public hearing
consistent with the act and this article, including, but not limited to, the
reasonable limitation of sworn testimony, unsworn oral comment, direct and
cross examination of any witnesses, and the limitation of repetitive or
cumulative testimony and questioning.
         h.   Rule upon objections and evidentiary questions, with the
understanding that such rulings must be consistent with fundamental fairness,
but need not be in strict compliance with the Illinois supreme court rules,
Illinois code of civil procedure, or any local rules of evidence governing a
civil trial in the state of Illinois and/or county of Kane.
         i.   Allow the introduction of late filed evidence, be it written or
testimonial, on behalf of any participant, provided good cause is shown for the
late filing, and the evidence is both relevant and not unduly prejudicial to
another participant so that fundamental fairness to all parties is preserved.
      7.   The hearing officer shall be an attorney, licensed to practice in
Illinois.
      8.   The hearing officer may confer with the board of trustees concerning
the petition between the time of filing of the petition and the time the board
makes its decision on the petition.
      9.   The hearing officer may not confer with any participants (members of
the public, the applicant and the village included) concerning the petition
unless such conference takes place during the prehearing meeting, or at the
public hearing; is through correspondence filed with the village clerk (and,
thus, available for everyone to view); or concerns location, time or other
similar scheduling aspects concerning the public meeting or public hearing, or
the notices for same.
         a.   The only additional exceptions from this restriction is that the
hearing officer may:
            (1)   Confer with the village clerk about the upkeep or status of
the public record;
            (2)   Make a request to review or copy the public record; or
            (3)   Confer with the village clerk regarding the scheduling or
location of, or arrangements for, the public meeting or hearing.
      10.   The village president may remove and/or replace the hearing officer
at will.
         a.   If the hearing officer is replaced, a new hearing officer shall
be appointed.
         b.   In the interim, the hearing may be adjourned or continued, with
the village president or a trustee designated by the village president acting
as temporary presiding officer.
      11.   At the conclusion of the public hearing and after consideration of
all timely filed written comments or late filed written comments, the hearing
officer shall submit written findings of fact and conclusions of law to the
board of trustees, and file a copy of such findings with the village clerk.
      12.   The hearing officer does not have the right or the power to vote on
the application.
   F.   All reports, studies, exhibits or other evidence or copies thereof,
other than testimony, which any participant desires to submit for the record at
the public hearing must be filed with the village clerk with the requisite
number of copies at least seven (7) calendar days before the public hearing,
and shall be available for public inspection in the office of the village
clerk.
      1.   In the event that the seventh day prior to the date set for public
hearing falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the next working day shall be
considered the day that reports, studies and exhibits must be filed.
      2.   The hearing officer may permit the late filing of evidence for good
cause shown and without prejudice to any participant.
   G.   Conduct of the public hearing shall be substantially as follows:
      1.   Call to order by hearing officer with determination of a quorum;
      2.   Introduction of the board of trustees members who are present;
      3.   Introduction of the hearing officer;
      4.   Recognition of the applicant and identification of the petition;
      5.   Recognition of notices and date of filing of the petition; and all
required notices;
      6.   Recognition of the village staff and attorney present;
      7.   Recognition of all other participants who have filed a notice of
participation form;
      8.   Recognition of all reports, exhibits, maps or documents of record;
      9.   The applicant, the village and any participants each may then make
an opening statement.
      10.   The board of trustees shall then hear testimony from the applicant
and/or any witnesses the applicant may wish to call.
      11.   Upon the close of the applicant's testimony, participants (other
than the applicant or the village) may present sworn testimony, any witnesses
and evidence.
      12.   After the close of the applicant's and the participants' cases, the
village may present any witnesses and evidence.
      13.   Rebuttal testimony and evidence will be allowed at the discretion
of the hearing officer; but if it is allowed, it will be presented in the same
order as described above.
      14.   Following rebuttal testimony, if any, any participant who wishes to
present oral, unsworn comment may then present such comment to the board of
trustees.
      15.   Closing statements, if any, will be presented in the same order as
described above.
      16.   Rebuttal statement, if any, by the applicant, subject to
limitations as imposed by the hearing officer.
      17.   Hearing closed.
   H.   All witnesses who testify under oath shall be subject to reasonable
questioning as follows: direct, cross examination, redirect, recross, etc.
   I.   At any time during the public hearings, any member of the board of
trustees or the hearing officer may question participants or cross examine
witnesses.
   J.   Should any issues, facts, data or other evidence arise during the
course of the public hearing which were not apparent or reasonably foreseeable
by a participant from the petition as filed with the village clerk, such
situation may constitute grounds for a recess of the public hearing for a
period to be set by the hearing officer after consultation with the members of
the board of trustees present at the time. (Ord. 07-50, 11-1-2007)
17-1-7: PUBLIC COMMENT; WRITTEN AND ORAL:
   A.   Any person has the right to file with the village clerk written comment
concerning the appropriateness of the proposed facility, or its compliance with
the requirements of 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/39.2, at any time after
the filing of a petition and within the time limitation provided in this
section.
   B.   The village clerk shall receive and file any written comment from any
person concerning the appropriateness of the proposed site. The clerk shall
date same and shall file it together with any postmarked envelope in which it
was received.
   C.   Copies of such written comments shall be made available for public
inspection in the office of the village clerk, and members of the public shall
be allowed to obtain a copy of any written comment in accordance with the
requirements of the freedom of information act, and upon payment of the actual
cost of reproduction, pursuant to 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/39.2.
   D.   Any written comment received by the village clerk or postmarked not
later than thirty (30) days after the date the public hearing was closed shall
be made part of the record at the public hearing, and the board of trustees
shall consider any such timely written comments in making its final
determination concerning the petition. Provided, in the event that the
thirtieth day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or an official holiday, the next day
on which mail is delivered shall be considered the thirtieth day for purposes
of this section.
   E.   Any nonparticipant shall have the right to provide oral, unsworn
comment during the course of the public hearing, upon reasonable notice to the
hearing officer that the person desires to provide such comment. Any such oral,
unsworn comment shall not be subject to cross examination. (Ord. 07-50, 11-1-
2007)
17-1-8: THE PUBLIC RECORD:
   A.   The village clerk shall prepare and maintain the public record
concerning the petition, and the record shall include the following documents:
      1.   The original petition and any amendments filed with the village
clerk;
      2.   All written comment timely filed with the village clerk;
      3.   Notice of participation forms and speaker forms filed with the
village clerk;
      4.   All exhibits entered into evidence at the time of the public
hearing;
      5.   The transcript of testimony presented and any oral, unsworn comments
made during the public hearing;
      6.   Any written motions filed during the course of the public hearing;
      7.   Any evidence duly filed with the village clerk;
      8.   Copies of all published notices, and certified or personally served
notices of the public hearings that were prepared by the village clerk or
prepared by others and filed with the village clerk;
      9.   All reports submitted to the village clerk (redacted as may be
necessary to prevent disclosure of confidential or privileged information);
      10.   All transcripts and/or minutes, when available, of any meetings,
other than the public hearing(s) held pursuant to this article, and any meeting
of the corporate authorities (an "outside meeting") at which a board of
trustees member was in attendance.
         a.   Although board of trustees members are not encouraged to attend
any outside meetings at which the member knows the petition or matters related
to the petition may be discussed, due to the member's continuing, regular
legislative duties during the course of consideration of a petition by the
board of trustees, attendance at such meeting(s) may be unavoidable (e.g.,
attendance at another municipality's council meeting, attendance at a local
chamber of commerce meeting).
         b.   The member is required to obtain and file a transcript, if any,
or the minutes of any such outside meeting, where such meeting has been
transcribed or recorded, or minutes have been taken, respectively, or otherwise
disclose such meeting in the public records (such as disclosing it on the
record during the transcribed public hearings or during the written comment
period provided for in this article).
         c.   Any such transcript(s) or minutes shall not, however, be utilized
by the village in reaching its decision;
      11.   The hearing officer's written findings to the board of trustees;
      12.   The resolution containing the final decision of the board of
trustees on the petition;
      13.   A log of the name and address of each person seeking to view, copy
or file documents with or in the public record, signed by such persons at the
time of request, and identifying the nature of the request (i.e., view, copy,
file or other, and identifying the "other") as maintained by the village clerk.
   B.   The village clerk, or his or her designee, shall, during the regular
business hours of the village clerk's office, make the public record available
to any person requesting to review it.
   C.   The village clerk shall be responsible for certifying all copies of the
public record.
   D.   Any and all late filed written comments shall be retained by the
village clerk, together with any evidence of date of filing, such as the
village clerk's date received or the postmarked envelope, if the written
comment was mailed; said written comments shall be retained is a separate file,
outside of the public record.
   E.   The village clerk shall make and deliver a copy of all transcripts from
the public hearing to the village president and each trustee for their review.
(Ord. 07-50, 11-1-2007)
17-1-9: DECISION BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   On or before the one hundred eightieth day following the date the
petition was filed, or on or before the two hundred seventieth day following
the date the petition was filed if the applicant filed an amendment to the
petition in compliance with the timing requirements of the act, the board of
trustees shall, by written resolution, upon the vote of a majority of its
members, decide whether to:
      1.   Grant the petition, without any conditions; or
      2.   Grant the petition, but with conditions on such approval, provided
such conditions are reasonable and necessary to accomplish the purposes of
section 39.2 of the act and are not inconsistent with the regulations
promulgated by the Illinois pollution control board; or
      3.   Deny the petition.
   B.   In its decision, the board of trustees shall state whether it finds
that the applicant has established, and whether the public record supports the
establishment of, each of the following criteria:
      1.   The facility is necessary to accommodate the waste needs of the area
it is intended to serve;
      2.   The facility is so designed, located and proposed to be operated
that the public health, safety and welfare will be protected;
      3.   The facility is located so as to minimize the incompatibility with
the character of the surrounding area and to minimize the effect on the value
of the surrounding property;
      4.   For a transfer facility or facility other than a sanitary landfill
or waste disposal site, the facility is located outside the boundary of the
100-year floodplain or the site is floodproofed; and for a facility that is a
sanitary landfill or waste disposal site, the facility is located outside the
boundary of the 100-year floodplain; or if the facility is a facility described
in subsection (b)(3) of section 22.19a of the act, the site is floodproofed;
      5.   The plan of operations for the facility is designed to minimize the
danger to the surrounding area from fire, spills or other operational
accidents;
      6.   The traffic patterns to or from the facility are so designed as to
minimize the impact on existing traffic flows;
      7.   If the facility will be treating, storing or disposing of hazardous
waste, an emergency response plan exists for the facility, which includes
notification, containment and evacuation procedures to be used in case of an
accidental release;
      8.   The consistency of the facility with the applicable county's solid
waste management plan, including any updates of that plan;
      9.   If the facility is located in a regulated recharge area, that any
applicable requirements specified by the Illinois pollution control board for
such areas have been met;
      10.   Any other criteria established by law and applicable to the
proceeding.
   C.   The board of trustees shall consider as evidence the previous operating
experience and past record of convictions or admissions of violations of the
applicant (and any subsidiary, parent corporation, or subsidiary of the parent
corporation) in the field of solid waste management, when considering the
second and fifth criteria of the act, and subsections B2 and B5 of this
section.
   D.   In making its decision, the board of trustees shall consider the public
record of the hearing proceedings, and shall base its decision upon items
properly included therein, in accordance with fundamental fairness; provided,
however, the board of trustees shall give greater evidentiary weight to sworn
testimony and evidence presented during the public hearings than to unsworn,
oral or written comment; and shall disregard information included in any
transcript or minutes of any outside meeting(s) which may have been attended by
any of its members.
   E.   No determination by the board of trustees of a petition may be
reconsidered, except to the extent it is reversed and remanded on an appeal,
and the board of trustees is directed by the Illinois pollution control board
or Illinois appellate or supreme court to conduct all or part of the siting
approval process again.
   F.   Any board of trustees member may be excused from participation in the
hearing and decision, upon demonstration of any disqualifying direct and
personal interest in the property or the affairs of the applicant or any
objector to the proceedings. (Ord. 07-50, 11-1-2007)
