HANNA CITY, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 24-11-01, passed 10-11-5-2024; and
State legislation current through 2024 Illinois Legislative Service, Pamphlet#3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Hanna City, Illinois, shall be
designated as the “Code of  Hanna City”, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons, but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   COUNTY. Peoria County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Peoria County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of the state, or of any town or county of the state, and all
bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The President of the Village of Hanna City.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of Hanna City. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include those persons in the
employ of a village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Art. VII of the Constitution of
the state of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Art. VII of the
Constitution of the state of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Hanna City.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law, it shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person or, in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR.
      (1)   A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      (2)   The word YEAR alone is equivalent to the expression “Year of Our
Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   (1)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed
according to the rules of grammar and common usage.
      (2)   Words and phrases that have acquired a technical or particular
meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition or otherwise, shall be
construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in the state and, then, it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application and, to this end, the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances), as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance, by its nature, either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose, effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            The village shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, as provided in the state’s Freedom of Information
Act.
         Statutory reference:
            Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of the
village, for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof; and, every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
5/1-2-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
31.   VILLAGE POLICIES
      
32.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Oath; bond
   
30.02   Other village officials
   
30.03   Duties and obligations of officers
   
30.04   Board meetings
   
30.05   Penalty, censure or expulsion of Board members
   
30.06   Standing committees
   
30.07   Village Attorney
   
30.08   Planning Commission
   
30.09   Qualifications
   
30.10   Compensation
Board of Trustees
   
30.25   Proceedings before Board of Trustees
   
30.26   Presiding officer
   
30.27   Meetings
   
30.28   Quorum
   
30.29   Deferral of committee reports
   
30.30   Addressing the Board of Trustees
Elections
   
30.45   President; election; term; vacancy
   
30.46   Village Clerk; election; term; vacancy
   
30.47   Trustees; election, term, and vacancies
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   (1)   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all
village officers, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe the
following oath:
         I do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United
States, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I will
faithfully discharge the duties of the office of ____________according to the
best of my ability.
      (2)   This oath, so subscribed, shall be filed in the office of the
Clerk.
(2010 Code, § 31.02)
   (B)   (1)   Each officer, except Trustees, shall, before entering upon the
duties of office, execute a bond with security to be approved by the Board of
Trustees, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of the office
and the payment of all money received by the officer, according to law and the
provisions of this code.
      (2)   No officer of the village shall be received on the official bond of
any other village officer, and all officers shall be commissioned pursuant to
statute.
      (3)   The village shall pay all costs for bonding.
(2010 Code, § 170.01)
§ 30.02 OTHER VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees,
shall appoint the following advisors.
   (B)   These advisors may be removed by the powers appointing them:
      (1)   Village Engineer; and
      (2)   Village Attorney.
(2010 Code, § 170.02)
§ 30.03 DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Pay money to Treasurer. All officers collecting or receiving any money
belonging to the village shall immediately pay the money to the Village
Treasurer and take a receipt for it. These officers shall report quarterly to
the Trustees an accurate statement of all money received by them for the
preceding quarter, specifying the amount, its source and the account upon which
it was received. No officer shall retain any money collected or received by him
or her toward the payment of any salary or fees which the village may owe him
or her, but shall pay all of the money into the Village Treasury. Any officer
violating any of the provisions of this section shall be subject to a penalty
as provided in this code.
   (B)   Liability of officers. All officers shall be liable to the village for
all loss or damage that may arise from their negligence or willful misconduct
in the discharge of any official duty, and the Board of Trustees may, in its
discretion, by order, withhold the salary of any officer to secure the village
from loss. If any officer shall fail, neglect or refuse to perform or discharge
any duty required of him or her, the President and Board of Trustees may employ
or appoint any competent person to perform the duty. If this occurs, the costs
and expenses of this action shall be charged to the officer and deducted from
his or her salary or, if the salary is insufficient to pay the costs and
expenses of this action, the village may recover these costs and expenses by
suit in the village’s name before any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Failure to perform duties. If any village officer shall fail, refuse
or neglect to perform any duty imposed upon him or her by any provision of this
code or law of the state, that officer shall be subject to a fine and the
offense shall operate as a removal from office.
(2010 Code, § 170.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.04 BOARD MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The regular meetings of the President and Board of
Trustees of the village shall be held in the Village Hall, or at any other
place in the village as the President and Board of Trustees shall provide, on
the first and third Tuesday of each calendar month, unless the day of the
regularly scheduled meeting is a public holiday, in which case the Board shall
meet on a date set by the Board. All regular meetings shall convene at 6:00
p.m., unless otherwise ordered by the Board.
   (B)   Roll call; order of business. At the hour appointed for the meeting,
the Clerk (or someone appointed to take his or her place) marking the
absentees, and announce whether a quorum is present. Upon the appearance of a
quorum, the Board shall be called to order, the President taking the chair and
the Board appointing an acting President if the President should be absent. The
following shall be the order of business:
      (1)   The reading of the minutes of the last regular or adjourned
meeting, amendment and approval of the minutes;
      (2)   The presentation of petitions;
      (3)   Reports of village officers;
      (4)   Reports of standing committees;
      (5)   Reports of special committees;
      (6)   Communications to the Board, which may also be considered at any
time;
      (7)   Unfinished business of preceding meetings;
      (8)   Motions, resolutions and notices;
      (9)   New business not otherwise provided for; and
      (10)   Applications for licenses and the like.
   (C)   Rules governing meetings.
      (1)   All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided
without debate. The President shall preserve order and decorum, decide all
questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Board and endeavor to conduct
all business before the Board with fairness and impartiality, to a speedy and
proper result. While the President is putting the question or deciding a point
of order, the members shall be seated. No member shall leave the Council
Chamber without permission from the Board.
      (2)   Prior to speaking, a member shall rise from his or her seat and
say, “Mr. President”, but shall not proceed with his or her remarks until
recognized and named by the chair. When two or more members rise at once, the
President shall name the member who is first to speak. No member shall speak
more than twice to the same general question, nor more than once to a
“previous” question, without leave from the Board, nor more than once in any
case, until every member wishing to speak shall have spoken. While a member is
speaking, no member shall entertain any private discourse or pass between him
or her and the chair.
      (3)   A member called to order shall immediately sit down, unless
permitted to explain. If there is no appeal, the decision of the chair shall be
conclusive, but if the member appeals to the Board from the decision of the
chair, the Board shall decide on the cause without debate and the question
shall be asked, “Shall the decision of the chair be sustained?”
      (4)   Every member who shall be present when a question is stated by the
chair shall vote on the question unless excused by the Board or unless he or
she is directly interested in the question, in which case he or she shall not
vote.
      (5)   No motion shall be debated unless seconded. When a motion is
seconded, it shall be stated by the chair before debate. Every seconded motion
shall be reduced to writing if required by a member. After a motion or
resolution is stated by the chair, it shall be deemed to be in possession of
the Board, but may by consent of the party seconding the motion be withdrawn at
any time before decision or amendment.
      (6)   (a)   If the question in debate contains several distinct
propositions, any member may have the question divided. When a question is
before the Board of Trustees, no motions shall be made in order but the
following:
            1.   Motion to adjourn;
            2.   Motion to lay on the table;
            3.   Previous question;
            4.   Motion to postpone indefinitely;
            5.   Motion to postpone to a certain time; or
            6.   Motion to amend.
         (b)   These motions shall be privileged and have precedence in the
order in which they succeed each other. A motion to adjourn, to lay on the
table and for the previous question shall be decided without debate. A motion
to adjourn shall always be in order, except when a Trustee has the floor, when
there is a vote being taken or when the preceding motion was one for
adjournment. A motion for the previous question or to lay the question on the
table shall, until it is decided, preclude all amendments and debate of the
main question. A motion to postpone a question indefinitely or to adjourn it to
a certain day shall, until it is decided, preclude all amendments to the main
question. The “previous question” shall be as follows: “Shall the main question
now be put?” A motion to adjourn the Board shall always be in order and shall
be decided without debate, unless the motion shall be to adjourn to a certain
day.
      (7)   In all cases where a resolution or motion shall be entered on the
minutes of the Board, the name of the member making the resolution or motion
shall also be entered on the journal. If any member requests it, the “ayes” and
“nays” upon any question shall be taken and entered on the journal, but the
“ayes” and “nays” shall not be taken unless called for previous to any vote on
the question, unless otherwise provided by ordinance.
      (8)   When a member wishes to present a communication, petition or
report, the member shall rise and address the chairperson in the usual form
and, after briefly stating the subject of the communication or report, shall
ask leave to present the communication, petition or report. No person except a
member of the Board shall be permitted to address the Board unless by consent
of two-thirds of the members of the Board of Trustees present.
      (9)   When any motion, resolution or matter has been passed upon by the
Board, it may be reconsidered at the same or any subsequent regular meeting
upon the motion of a member who voted with the majority, but a motion to
reconsider shall not be entertained unless as large a number of Trustees is
present as was present when the question was passed upon.
      (10)   All ordinances, petitions and communications to the Board of
Trustees shall, unless otherwise ordered by two-thirds vote of all of the
Trustees elected, be referred to appropriate committees. In no event can any of
these be acted upon by the Board at any, but a subsequent, meeting held not
sooner than one week after the report of the committee in charge.
      (11)   Upon passage of all orders, ordinances or resolutions
appropriating money, the “ayes” and “nays” shall be entered on the record of
the Board of Trustees. A majority of the votes of all of the members of the
Board shall be necessary for passage.
      (12)   All bills or claims against the village shall be properly
itemized, stating the nature and purpose of the claim and shall be filed with
the Village Clerk at least one day before the regular monthly meeting of the
Board. This division (C)(12) shall not apply to money allowed by ordinance
against which claim can be filed before any meeting of the Board.
      (13)   All resolutions and amendments shall be reduced to writing and
shall be read by the Clerk.
      (14)   The President or any Trustee persisting in a violation of any of
the rules shall be subject to a fine as provided in this code, which sum shall
be charged to the President or Trustee and deducted from his or her
compensation, unless excused by a vote of the Board and the fine remitted.
      (15)   All charges against the President or a Trustee for improper
conduct shall be made by a member of the Board and shall be reduced to writing,
setting forth specifically the nature of the charge. No remarks or debate shall
be permitted upon the charge until the question comes up for investigation and
decision.
      (16)   The acting President, when selected from the Board, shall not be
deprived of his or her right to vote or debate, but shall place some member in
the chair if he or she desires to speak to a question.
      (17)   Speeches on all questions shall be limited to five minutes.
      (18)   (a)   If a quorum of the members of corporate authorities of the
Village of Hanna City is physically present as required by Section 2.01 of the
Open Meetings Act, a majority of the public body may allow a member of the
corporate authorities to attend a regular or special meeting by electronic
means if the member is prevented from physically attending because of (1)
personal illness or disability; (2) absence from the corporate limits of the
village for personal employment purposes or for the business of the village; or
(3) a family or other emergency. "Electronic means" shall mean a teleconference
or any other means that enables concurrent ability to communicate with the
member who is not physically present. Any member planning to attend a regular
or special meeting by electronic means shall give written notice of his or her
intent to the Village Clerk and Village Administrator. The notice shall be
given at least 72 hours prior to the meeting. If the giving of the notice is
not possible or is impracticable prior to the 72-hour deadline, then the member
shall give notice at the member's earliest opportunity. The notice may be given
by personal delivery, mail, fax transmission, e-mail, or other electronic means
which creates a record of notice. The notice shall state the reason that
prevents the member from physically attending the meeting.
         (b)   If the presiding officer of the public body is attending the
meeting by electronic means, then the person who acts in the absence of the
presiding officer shall chair the meeting. If there is none, then the presiding
officer shall appoint a member of the public body who is physically present at
the meeting to serve as chair of the meeting. The appointment of a chair shall
be subject to the advice and consent of the public body. The presiding officer
who is participating by electronic means shall be authorized to participate in
the meeting to the extent authorized by law or ordinance except for those acts
involved with chairing the meeting.
         (c)   Any Trustee who is part of the quorum physically present at the
regular or special meeting as required by Section 2.01 of the Open Meetings Act
may request that a vote be taken concerning whether the Trustee who is not
physically present may attend such meeting by electronic means. The question
shall be decided by a majority vote of the Board of Trustees.
(2010 Code, § 170.04) (Ord. 21-08-01, passed 8-3-2021; Ord. 22-05-01, passed 5-
3-2022)
§ 30.05 PENALTY, CENSURE OR EXPULSION OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   Any member acting or appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner, or who uses
opprobrious, obscene or insulting language to or about any member of the Board,
or who does not obey the order of the chair, shall be, on motion, censured by a
majority vote of the members present or shall be expelled by a two- thirds vote
of all members then holding office.
(2010 Code, § 170.05)
§ 30.06 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   (1)   The following standing committees shall be appointed by the
President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees:
         (a)   Finance;
         (b)   Community and Economic Development;
         (c)   Planning and Zoning;
         (d)   Streets/Buildings and Grounds/Garbage;
         (e)    Water/Sewer/Sanitation; and
         (f)   Administration.
      (2)   Each committee shall consist of three members, with the person
first named on the committee serving as the chairperson.
   (B)   Each standing committee shall control all subject matter properly
belonging to it, as designated by its title, or which may be referred to it by
the Board, and shall be required to report at regular meetings unless the Board
instructs otherwise.
(2010 Code, § 170.06) (Ord. 22-09-01, passed 9-20-2022)
§ 30.07 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Appointment. The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance not inconsistent
with the provisions of this code, prescribe the duties and define the powers of
the Village Attorney, together with his or her term of office; provided that,
the term shall not exceed one year and the Attorney shall, before entering upon
the duties of office, execute a bond with security, to be approved by the Board
of Trustees, payable to the village in an amount as may, by resolution or
ordinance, be directed, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties
of office, and the payment of all money received by him or her, according to
law and the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Suits and actions. The Attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all
suits or actions at law or equity to which the village may be a party, or in
which it may be interested, or which may be brought against, or by, any officer
of the village on behalf of the village or in his or her capacity as a village
officer.
   (C)   Judgments. The Attorney shall enforce all judgments, decrees or
interlocutory orders entered in favor of the village.
   (D)   Advice. The Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the village and
shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the village whenever
requested to do so by any village official. Upon request by the President, the
Attorney shall reduce any opinion to writing.
   (E)   Special assessments. The Attorney shall undertake all special
assessment proceedings and condemnation proceedings.
(2010 Code, § 170.07)
§ 30.08 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Purpose. In order to prepare a Comprehensive Village Plan for the
guidance, direction and control of the growth and development or redevelopment
of the village and contiguous territory, which is not more than one and one-
half miles beyond the corporate limits and not included in any municipality,
the Board of Trustees may appoint a planning commission by the authority
granted to the village under the Illinois Municipal Code.
   (B)   Membership. The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members
that reside within the village or within territory contiguous to the village
and not more than one and one-half miles beyond the village limits and not
included within any other municipality. Members shall be appointed by the
President on the basis of their particular fitness for their duty on the
Planning Commission and subject to approval of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Term of office. Of the five members first appointed, one shall serve
for a period of one year, two for a period of two years and two for a period of
three years. Thereafter, each member shall serve for a term of three years.
Vacancies shall be filled by appointments for unexpired terms only. All members
of the Commission shall serve without compensation; except that, if the Board
of Trustees deems it advisable, they may receive compensation as may be fixed
from time to time by the village and provided for in the appropriation
ordinance. The ex officio members shall serve for the terms of the elective
office.
   (D)   Procedure. Immediately following their appointment, the members of the
Planning Commission shall meet, organize, elect officers as it may deem
necessary and adopt (and later revise) rules and regulations of organization
and procedure consistent with the provisions of this code and state laws. The
Commission shall keep written records of its proceedings, which shall be open
at all times to public inspection. The Commission shall also file an annual
report with the President and Board of Trustees, setting forth its transactions
and recommendations.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The Planning Commission shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   (a)   To prepare and recommend to the President of the village a
comprehensive plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of
the village and contiguous unincorporated territory not more than one and one-
half miles beyond the corporate limits of the village and not included in any
other municipality. The plan may be adopted in whole or in separate
geographical or functional parts, each of which, when adopted, shall be the
official Comprehensive Plan, or part of the plan, of the village. The plan
shall be advisory, except as to any part which has been implemented by
ordinances duly enacted by the Board of Trustees. All requirements for public
hearing, filing of notice of adoption with the county’s Recorder of Deeds and
filing of the plan and ordinances with the Clerk shall be complied with as
provided for by law.
         (b)   To provide for the health, safety, comfort and convenience of
the inhabitants of the village and contiguous territory, the plan or plans
shall establish reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and for re-
subdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment with
respect to public improvements as defined in this code and shall establish
reasonable requirements, governing the location, width, course and surfacing of
public streets and highways, alleys, ways for public service facilities, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, street lights, parks, playgrounds, school grounds, size of
lots to be used for residential purposes, storm water drainage, water supply
and distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage collection and treatment. The
requirements specified in the plan or plans shall become regulatory only when
adopted by ordinance.
      (2)   To designate land suitable for annexation to the village and the
recommended zoning classification for the land upon annexation;
      (3)   To recommend to the Board of Trustees, from time to time, changes
in the Comprehensive Plan or any part of the plan, as it deems necessary;
      (4)   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees, from time to
time, plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in compliance with
the official Comprehensive Plan;
      (5)   To give aid to the village officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, or parts of the
plan, to further the making of the improvements and generally to promote the
realization of the official Comprehensive Plan;
      (6)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding;
      (7)   To cooperate with municipal or regional planning commissions and
other agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area; and
      (8)   To exercise whatever other powers are germane to the powers
authorized by the Illinois Municipal Code and as may be conferred upon the
Commission by the President of the village.
   (F)   Land subdivision or re-subdivision; official map.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall have the duties as set forth in the
subdivision ordinance and elsewhere in this code. At any time, before or after
the formal adoption of an official comprehensive plan by the corporate
authorities, an official map may be designated by ordinance, which may consist
of the whole area included within the official comprehensive plan or one or
more separate geographical or functional parts and which may include all or any
part of the contiguous unincorporated area within one and one-half miles from
the corporate limits of the village.
      (2)   All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption
with the county’s Recorder of Deeds and filing of the plan and ordinances,
including the official map, with the Clerk shall be complied with as provided
for by law.
      (3)   No map or plat of any subdivision or re-subdivision presented for
record affecting land within the corporate limits of the village or contiguous
territory within one and one-half miles beyond the corporate limits shall be
entitled to record or shall be valid unless the subdivision shown provides for
standards of design and standards governing streets, alleys, public ways, ways
for public service facilities, street lights, public grounds, size of lots to
be used for residential purposes, storm and flood water run-off channels and
basins, water supply and distribution and sanitary sewers and sewage collection
and treatment in conformity with the applicable requirements of the ordinances,
including the official map.
   (G)   Expenditures. The Commission may, at the discretion of the Board of
Trustees, employ a paid secretary or staff, or both, whose salaries, wages and
other necessary expenses shall be provided for by the Board of Trustees from
the public funds. If the Planning Commission deems it advisable to secure
technical advice or services, it may do so upon obtaining the authority and
appropriations from the Board of Trustees.
   (H)   Powers. The Planning Commission shall have all of the powers of the
Zoning Board of Appeals as more fully set forth in Ch. 153 and 154 of this code
of ordinances. All hearings noticed for the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
deemed to be hearings of the Planning Commission and all hearings noticed for
the Planning Commission shall be deemed to be hearings for the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
(2010 Code, § 170.08) (Ord. 13-02-01, passed 2-5-2013; Ord. 14-08-18, passed 8-
19-2014)
§ 30.09 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A person is not eligible for an elective village office unless that
person is a qualified elector of the village and has resided in the village at
least one year preceding the election. A person is not eligible for an elective
village office if that person is in arrears in the payment of a tax or other
indebtedness due to the village or has been convicted in any court located in
the United States of any infamous crime, bribery, perjury or other felony,
unless such person is again restored to his or her rights of citizenship that
may have been forfeited under Illinois law as a result of a conviction, which
includes eligibility to hold elected municipal office, by the terms of a pardon
for the offense, has received a restoration of rights by the Governor, or
otherwise according to law. Any time after a judgment of conviction is
rendered, a person convicted of an infamous crime, bribery, perjury, or other
felony may petition the Governor for a restoration of rights.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5(a) and (b))
   (B)   No person shall be eligible for any appointive village office unless
that person is a qualified elector of the village or otherwise provided by law.
The residency requirements do not apply, however, to village engineers, health
officers, attorneys or other officers who require technical training or
knowledge, to an appointed Village Treasurer, or to an appointed Village
Collector (unless the village has designated by ordinance that the Village
Clerk shall hold the office of Collector). The village may adopt ordinances
that allow its firefighters and police officers to reside outside the corporate
limits of the village both at the time of employment and while serving as a
firefighter or police officer.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6)
(2010 Code, § 31.01)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of President or Trustees to other offices prohibited, see 50
ILCS 105/2
§ 30.10 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   All village officers, except as otherwise provided, shall receive the
salary or other compensation that is fixed by ordinance. Salaries or other
compensation shall not be increased or diminished, so as to take effect during
the term of any elected village officer. The salaries, fees or other
compensation of any appointed village officer, not including those appointed to
fill vacancies in elective offices, may be increased but not diminished so as
to take effect during the term for which the officer was appointed.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may fix the salary of all village officers and
employees, in the annual appropriation ordinance or budget ordinance. They may
fix the salary of all officers who are elected for a definite term in an
ordinance other than the appropriation or budget ordinance. Salaries which are
fixed in the annual appropriation ordinance shall neither be increased nor
diminished during the fiscal year for which the appropriation is made. Salaries
which are fixed by ordinance for those officers who are elected for a definite
term shall neither be increased nor diminished during that term, and shall be
fixed 180 days before the beginning of the terms of the officers whose
compensation is to be fixed.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10)
(2010 Code, § 31.04)
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.25 PROCEEDINGS BEFORE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Rules of order. The current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order shall
govern the proceedings of the Board of Trustees where applicable and when not
in conflict with statutes or ordinances; provided, however, that, the Board may
adopt rules of order revising, repealing, amending, supplementing or
supplanting, in whole or in part, Robert’s Rules of Order. Each new Board, upon
inauguration of the village officers newly elected at any consolidated
election, shall have the right by a majority vote of the Board of Trustees to
repeal, amend or replace any rules of order adopted by a previous board.
   (B)   Addressing meetings. It shall be unlawful for any person to address or
attempt to address any regular or special meeting of the Board, except upon the
consent of the President or with the consent of a majority of the members
present.
   (C)   Disturbing meetings. It shall be unlawful to disturb or interrupt any
regular or special meeting of the Board. Any person violating any provision of
this division (C) may be summarily ejected from the meeting and the Village
Hall.
(Ord. 11-01-01, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.26 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The President shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Trustees. Except
as provided in 65 ILCS 5/4-1-1 et seq. and 5/5-1-1 et seq., he or she shall not
vote on any ordinance, resolution or motion, except where the vote of the Board
of Trustees has resulted in a tie; or where one-half of the Board of Trustees
elected have voted in favor of an ordinance, resolution or motion even though
there is no tie vote; or where a vote greater than a majority of the Board of
Trustees is required to adopt an ordinance, resolution or motion. In each
instance specified, the President shall vote. Nothing in this section shall
deprive an acting President or President Pro Tem from voting in his or her
capacity as Trustee, but he or she shall not be entitled to another vote in his
or her capacity as acting President or President Pro Tem.
(Ord. 11-01-01, passed - -2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-30
§ 30.27 MEETINGS.
   The Board of Trustees shall hold its regular meetings as set forth in §
30.04 of this chapter. The President or any three Trustees may call special
meetings of the Board of Trustees. In addition to any notice requirement
prescribed by the Board of Trustees, public notice of meetings must be given as
prescribed in 5 ILCS 120/2.02 and 120/2.03 of the Open Meetings Act.
(Ord. 11-01-01, passed - -2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25
§ 30.28 QUORUM.
   (A)   A majority of the corporate authorities shall constitute a quorum to
do business.
   (B)   A smaller number, however, may adjourn from time to time and may
compel the attendance of absentees, under penalties (including a fine for a
failure to attend) as set forth in §§
30.03 and
30.04 of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-01-01, passed - -2011; Ord. 23-03-01, passed 3-7-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20
§ 30.29 DEFERRAL OF COMMITTEE REPORTS.
   Upon the request of any two Trustees present, any report of a committee of
the Board shall be deferred, for final action thereon, to the next regular
meeting of the Board after the report is made.
(Ord. 11-01-01, passed - -2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.140-35
§ 30.30 ADDRESSING THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   Any person shall be permitted an opportunity to address the Board of
Trustees at any open meeting of the Board of Trustees or address any committee
of the Board of Trustees at any of its open meetings or to address any open
meeting of any village board or commission.
(Ord. 11-01-01, passed - -2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/2.06(g)
ELECTIONS
§ 30.45 PRESIDENT; ELECTION; TERM; VACANCY.
   (A)   As set forth in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5, the President shall be elected by
the electors of the village at a general village election held therein.
   (B)   As set forth in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10, the President shall hold his or
her office for a term of four years and until his or her successor is elected
and has qualified. The four-year term for President may be changed to two years
pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-65.
   (C)   Whenever a vacancy in the office of President occurs during his or her
term, the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the term in the manner
provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50 and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-55. During the period from
the time that the vacancy occurs until a President is elected, and has
qualified, the vacancy may be filled by the appointment of an Acting President
by the Board of Trustees.
(2010 Code, § 31.20)
§ 30.46 VILLAGE CLERK; ELECTION; TERM; VACANCY.
   At every other election for Trustees, a Clerk shall also be elected who
shall hold office for a four-year term. Whenever a vacancy in the office of a
Clerk elected under this section occurs during the term, the vacancy shall be
filled for the remainder of the term at the next general village election
occurs until a Clerk is elected, as provided in this section, and has
qualified, the vacancy may be filled by the appointment of an Acting Clerk by
the President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90) (2010 Code, § 31.35)
§ 30.47 TRUSTEES; ELECTION, TERM, AND VACANCIES.
   (A)   Except as provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-10, the electors of the village
shall elect six Trustees. The term of office of the Trustees shall be four
years and until their successors are elected and have qualified. Three Trustees
shall be elected at the village election in each odd-numbered year for a term
of four years. (65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5)
   (B)   Whenever a vacancy in the office of a Trustee occurs during his or her
term, the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the term at the next
general village election as provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50.
(2010 Code, § 32.02)
Statutory reference:
   Elections and primary elections to be conducted pursuant to state law, see
Illinois Election Code, 10 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
   
31.01   Policy prohibiting sexual harassment
 
   
31.99   Penalty
§ 31.01 POLICY PROHIBITING SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Prohibition on sexual harassment. It is unlawful to harass a person
because of that person’s sex. The courts have determined that sexual harassment
is a form of discrimination under Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of
1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a right to work in an environment
free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which
affects individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of
the village to prohibit harassment of any person by any municipal official,
municipal agent, municipal employee or municipal agency or office on the basis
of sex or gender. All municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal
employees and municipal agencies or offices are prohibited from sexually
harassing any person, regardless of any employment relationship or lack
thereof.
   (B)   Definition of sexual harassment. This policy adopts the definition of
sexual harassment as stated in the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently
defines sexual harassment as follows.
      SEXUAL HARASSMENT. Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual
favors or any conduct of a sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual’s employment;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile or offensive working environment.
   (C)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment.
      (1)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
         (a)   Verbal. Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor
and jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature;
         (b)   Non-verbal. Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, “catcalls”, “smacking”
or “kissing” noises;
         (c)   Visual. Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites;
         (d)   Physical. Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault;
         (e)   Textual/electronic. “Sexting” (electronically sending messages
with sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line
postings, blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and
Twitter).
      (2)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a “reasonable person”.
   (D)   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment.
      (1)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes
herself or himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the
incident(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her or
his position to the offending employee, and her or his immediate supervisor. It
is not necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the
report.
      (2)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following.
         (a)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her or his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
         (b)   Contact with supervisory personnel.
            1.   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a director of human resources, an ethics
officer, the City Manager or Administrator or the chief executive officer of
the municipality.
            2.   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
         (c)   Resolution outside municipality. The purpose of this policy is
to establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 300 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
be filed within 300 days.
      (3)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report
(what was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not
limited to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone
messages.
   (E)   Investigation.
      (1)   The village will promptly and thoroughly investigate all reports of
harassment as discreetly and confidentially as practicable. The investigation
would generally include a private interview with the person making a report of
harassment. It would also generally be necessary to discuss allegations of
harassment with the accused individual and others who may have information
relevant to the investigation. The village’s goal is to conduct a thorough
investigation, to determine whether harassment occurred, and to determine what
action to take if it is determined that improper behavior occurred.
      (2)   If the village determines that a violation of this policy has
occurred, it will take appropriate disciplinary action against the offending
party, which can include counseling (paid by offending party), warnings,
suspensions without pay and termination and as further provided in division (G)
below. Employees who report violations of this policy and employees who
cooperate with investigations into alleged violations of this policy will not
be subject to retaliation. Upon completion of the investigation, the village
will inform the employee who made the complaint of the results of the
investigation.
      (3)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant’s willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
   (F)   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment
allegations.
      (1)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee’s:
         (a)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
         (b)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
         (c)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
      (2)   For the purposes of this policy, RETALIATORY ACTION means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee’s involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
      (3)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
      (4)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein,
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in
retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
         (a)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a
public body an activity, policy or practice of any officer, member, state
agency or other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is
in violation of a law, rule or regulation;
         (b)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee; or
         (c)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
      (5)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer
may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing or before a legislative commission or committee, or in
any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that
the information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a state or federal law, rule or regulation.
(740 ILCS 174/15(b))
      (6)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it
is a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to
conspire, to retaliate against a person because he or she has opposed that
which he or she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment
in employment, because he or she has made a charge, filed a complaint,
testified, assisted or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing
under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
      (7)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with EDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge, due within 300 days (IDHR) or 300 days (EEOC) of the
alleged retaliation.
   (G)   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual harassment.
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or the
prohibition on sexual harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be subject
to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or discharge by
the municipality and any applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to
local ordinance, state law or federal law. Each violation may constitute a
separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the municipality shall be separate
and distinct from any penalty imposed by an ethics commission and any fines or
penalties imposed by a court of law or a state or federal agency.
   (H)   Consequences for knowingly making a false report. A false report is a
report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the sexual harassment
report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual harassment or
retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is not a report
made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness of the
consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe offense
that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally
makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of this policy shall
be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable municipal
policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreements.
   (I)   Conflict. The provisions of this policy will apply only insofar as
they do not conflict with any state or federal law.
(Ord. 18-12-02, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   In regards to §
31.01, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to an Ethics
Commission, an Inspector General, the state police, a State’s Attorney, the
Attorney General or any other law enforcement official is guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor. An Ethics Commission may levy an administrative fine of up to
$5,000 against any person who intentionally makes a false, frivolous or bad
faith allegation.
(Ord. 18-12-02, passed 12-4-2018)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
   
32.01   Administration of finances; fiscal year
   
32.02   Annual appropriation ordinance
   
32.03   Supplemental appropriation; transfers
   
32.04   Limitations; emergency; borrowing
   
32.05   Levy and collection of taxes
   
32.06   Annual audits and reports
   
32.07   Contracts
§ 32.01 ADMINISTRATION OF FINANCES; FISCAL YEAR.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall control the finances of the village.
(65 ILCS 5/8-1-1)
   (B)   The fiscal year for the village shall begin on May 1 of each year and
shall end on April 30 of the following year.
(2010 Code, § 33.01)
§ 32.02 ANNUAL APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE.
   (A)    The Board of Trustees shall pass an ordinance within the first
quarter of each fiscal year, to be termed the annual appropriation ordinance.
On and after January 1, 2020, if a disaster, state of emergency, or national
emergency is declared within the 60 days preceding the end of the first quarter
of the fiscal year and the disaster, emergency, or declaration impacts the
village, the time limit to pass the annual appropriation ordinance shall be
extended for the duration of the disaster or emergency and for 60 days
thereafter. During the extended period, the village may expend sums of money up
to amounts budgeted or appropriated for those objects and purposes in the
previous fiscal year to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the
village. In this ordinance the Board may appropriate sums of money deemed
necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the village,
including the amounts to be deposited in the reserves provided for in the state
Pension Code, 40 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., and shall specify the objects and
purposes for which these appropriations are made, and the amount appropriated
for each object or purpose. Among the objects and purposes specified shall be
the reserves provided for in the state Pension Code.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
32.03, no further appropriations shall be made at any other time within the
same fiscal year, unless a proposition to make each additional appropriation
has been first sanctioned by a petition signed by electors of the village
numbering more than 50% of the number of votes cast for the candidates for
President at the last preceding general village election at which a President
was elected, by a petition signed by them, or by a majority of those voting on
the question at a regular election or at an emergency referendum authorized in
accordance with the general election law. The Board of Trustees may by
ordinance initiate the submission of the proposition.
   (C)   At least ten days prior to the adoption of the annual appropriation
ordinance, the Board of Trustees of all villages over 2,000 in population shall
make the proposed appropriation ordinance or a formally prepared appropriation
or budget document upon which the annual appropriation ordinance will be based
conveniently available to public inspection and shall hold at least one public
hearing thereon. Notice of this hearing shall be given publication in one or
more newspapers published in the village, or if there is none published in the
village, in a newspaper published in the county and having general circulation
in the village, at least ten days prior to the time of the public hearing. The
notice shall state the time and place of the hearing and the place where copies
of the proposed appropriation ordinance or formally prepared appropriation or
budget document will be accessible for examination. The annual appropriation
ordinance may be adopted at the same meeting at which the public hearing is
held or at any time after that public hearing.
   (D)   After the public hearing and before final action is taken on the
appropriation ordinance, the Board may revise, alter, increase or decrease the
items contained in the ordinance.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, any village in which 65
ILCS 5/5-1-1 et seq. becomes effective after the annual appropriation ordinance
has been passed for the current fiscal year may amend the appropriation
ordinance in any manner necessary to make 65 ILCS 5/5-1-1 et seq. fully
operative in that village for that fiscal year. However, no such amendment
shall be construed to affect any tax levy made on the basis of the original
appropriation ordinance.
(65 ILCS 5/8-2-9)
   (F)   The Board of Trustees shall file with the County Clerk within 30 days
of their adoption a certified copy of its appropriation and budget ordinances
or resolutions, as well as an estimate, certified by the Chief Fiscal Officer
of the village, of revenues, by source, anticipated to be received by the
village in the following fiscal year. If the Board fails to file the required
documents, the County Clerk shall have the authority, after giving timely
notice of the failure to the village, to refuse to extend the tax levy until
the documents are so filed. In determining the amount of maximum tax authorized
to be levied, the assessed valuation of the current year of property as
assessed and reviewed by the village assessment officials, as equalized or
confirmed by the state, shall be used.
(35 ILCS 200/18-50)
(2010 Code, § 33.02)
§ 32.03 SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATION; TRANSFERS.
   (A)   During any fiscal year, the Board of Trustees may adopt a supplemental
appropriation ordinance in an amount not in excess of the aggregate of any
additional revenue available to the village, or estimated to be received by the
village after the adoption of the annual appropriation ordinance for that
fiscal year, or from fund balances available when the annual appropriation
ordinance was adopted but that were not appropriated at that time. The
provision of §
32.02 prohibiting further appropriations without sanction by petition or
election shall not be applicable to the supplemental appropriation for that
fiscal year.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees at any time, however, by a two-thirds vote of
all the members of the body, may make transfers within any department or other
separate agency of the village government, of sums of money appropriated for
one village object or purpose to another village object or purpose, but no
appropriation for any object or purpose shall thereby be reduced below an
amount sufficient to cover all obligations incurred or to be incurred against
the appropriation. Nothing herein contained shall deprive the Board of Trustees
of the power to provide for and cause to be paid from the funds of the village
any charge imposed by law without the action of the Board of Trustees, the
payment of which is ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(65 ILCS 5/8-2-9) (2010 Code, § 33.03)
§ 32.04 LIMITATIONS; EMERGENCY; BORROWING.
   (A)   Neither the Board of Trustees nor any department or officer of the
village shall add to the village expenditures in any fiscal year anything over
and above the amount provided for in the annual appropriation ordinance of that
year. No expenditure for an improvement to be paid for out of the General Fund
of the village shall exceed in any fiscal year the amount provided for that
improvement in the annual appropriation ordinance.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Board of Trustees, by a
two-thirds vote, from making additional appropriations for the purpose of
making improvements or restorations, the necessity for which is caused by any
casualty or accident happening after the annual appropriation ordinance is
passed, nor from making additional appropriations necessary to meet any
emergency, happening after and unforeseen at the time of passing the annual
appropriation ordinance. EMERGENCY, as used in this division (B), means a
condition requiring immediate action to suppress or prevent the spread of
disease, or to prevent or remove imminent danger to persons or property. For
the purpose of providing for these additional appropriations, the Board of
Trustees, by a two-thirds vote, may authorize the President to borrow the
amount of money necessary therefore for a space of time not extending beyond
the close of the next fiscal year. The sum borrowed and the interest thereon,
shall be added to the amount authorized to be raised in the next general tax
levy and embraced therein.
   (C)   Should a judgment be obtained against the village, the President,
under the sanction of the Board of Trustees, may borrow a sufficient amount to
pay the judgment for a space of time not extending beyond the close of the next
fiscal year. This sum and the interest thereon shall in like manner be added to
the amount authorized to be raised in the general tax levy of the next year and
embraced therein.
(65 ILCS 5/8-1-6) (2010 Code, § 33.04)
§ 32.05 LEVY AND COLLECTION OF TAXES.
   The Board of Trustees shall levy and collect taxes for corporate purposes in
the manner provided in 65 ILCS 5/8-3-1 et seq.
(2010 Code, § 33.05)
§ 32.06 ANNUAL AUDITS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the funds and accounts
of the village to be made by an accountant as required by 65 ILCS 5/8-8-3 et
seq.
   (B)   The village shall, within six months after the close of each fiscal
year, unless an extension is granted, file with the State Comptroller an audit
report and supplemental report or financial report as required in 65 ILCS 5/8-
8-3 and 65 ILCS 5/8-8-4.
(65 ILCS 5/8-8-3) (2010 Code, § 33.06)
§ 32.07 CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No contract shall be entered into by the village for goods or
services, unless it shall be approved by resolution or ordinance duly passed by
the Board of Trustees, except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The President may approve contracts for goods and services where the
contract amount is less than $500, without the approval of the Board of
Trustees. However, the President shall report any such contract to the Board of
Trustees at the Board meeting next following approval of the contract.
   (C)   All contracts of the village shall be signed by the President.
   (D)   No contract shall be approved for which there is no prior
appropriation.
   (E)   Any work or other public improvement not paid for in whole or in part
by special assessment or special taxation, when the expense thereof shall
exceed $5,000, shall:
      (1)   Be let to the lowest responsible bidder after advertising for bids
in one or more newspapers of general circulation within the village or, in the
case of public works, in such manner as may be established by the Board of
Trustees after consultation with a registered professional engineer; or
      (2)   Let without bids if authorized by a vote of two-thirds of the
Trustees then holding office, the President not voting.
(2010 Code, § 33.07)
Statutory reference:
   Construction of public works by village employees using purchased materials,
see 65 ILCS 5/8-9-1
   General requirements for contracts, see 65 ILCS 5/8-9-1 et seq.
   General requirements for contracts for water, see 65 ILCS 5/11-124-1 et seq.
   Interest of village officers in contracts, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10 and 65
ILCS 5/4-8-6; see also 50 ILCS 105/3 et seq.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   WATERWORKS AND SEWAGE TREATMENT
      
52.   SEWERS GENERALLY
      
53.   WASTEWATER USER CHARGES; INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY
      
54.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
      
55.   ELECTRICITY AGGREGATION
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
   
50.01   Ground water as potable water supply
   
50.02   Water meters
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 GROUND WATER AS POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.
   The village’s ground water provisions are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full. No property listed on Schd. A of
Ord. 11-05-01 shall be used in violation of the village’s ordinances.
(Ord. 11-05-01, passed - -2011; Ord. 11-09-01, passed - -2011)
§ 50.02 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Meters required. Before any premises to be served by village water are
occupied, a water meter shall be installed in a meter pit at the property line
thereof by the village, upon approval of the village and payment by the
customer of the cost of installing same.
   (B)   Testing meters. The village water meter shall be taken out and tested
upon complaint of the consumer and payment of a fee as set by the Board of
Trustees from time to time. If, upon test, the meter is not within 3% of being
accurate, it shall be repaired or replaced and the fee returned to the
customer.
(2010 Code, § 51.06)
   (C)   Tampering.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the village
to tamper or interfere with, remove, reprogram, alter, cause a malfunction of,
bypass, damage, destroy or injure any water meter in any manner whatsoever, to
make any connection to the waterworks system without written permission from
the village, or to reconnect service when it has been disconnected for non-
payment of a bill for service, or to tamper or interfere with, alter, damage or
injure any part of the village waterworks system.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of the premises and
the individual water user to prevent any tampering, interfering, altering,
causing a malfunction, bypassing, damaging, destroying or injuring of any water
meter.
      (3)   If any property owner or agent allows damage to occur either
intentionally or negligently to any water meter or water system owned by the
village, it shall be the property owners responsibility to contact the
Department of Public Works for an inspection. Willful failure by the property
owner or agent to contact the Department of Public Works after aforementioned
action, will be punishable according to §
50.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-01-03, passed - -2017; Ord. 21-12-01, passed 12-21-2021; Ord. 22-02-
01, passed 2-1-2022) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The penalty for any action in §
50.02(C)(1) or (C)(3) of this chapter is a fine as set forth in §
10.99. In addition to any other penalty allowed by law for violation of this
section, the owner or occupant of the premises and/or the individual water user
shall pay an inspection fee, as set by the Board of Trustees from time to time,
and if a water meter is repaired or replaced, the cost of repair or replacement
and/or resealing the water meter plus the cost of the water as estimated by the
village after the last meter reading, prior to reconnection, and any fine, plus
said amount, if it remains unpaid will be added to the water bill assessed to
owner or occupant.
(Ord. 17-01-03, passed - -2017)
CHAPTER 51: WATERWORKS AND SEWAGE TREATMENT
Section
   
51.01   Department established
   
51.02   Sewer connection required
   
51.03   Connection fees; exceptions
   
51.04   Water and/or sewer service deposit
   
51.05   Rates
   
51.06   Payment
   
51.07   Delinquent charges
   
51.08   Discontinuation for non-payment
   
51.09   Water and Sewer Department to render bills; revenues
   
51.10   Waterworks and Sewerage Fund
   
51.11   Records
   
51.12   Installation of additional meters
   
51.13   Prohibited behavior
   
51.14   Village not liable
   
51.15   Access to premises
   
51.16   Filing with County Recorder
   
51.17   Discontinuation and reinstatement of water services
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   An executive department of the village, known as the “Water and Sewer
Department” is established. The President and the Board of Trustees of the
village are authorized to appoint a Superintendent of the Water and Sewer
Department and all other necessary employees. The Superintendent shall have the
general management and control of the waterworks and sewerage system, subject,
however, to the supervision of the President and Board of Trustees.
(2010 Code, § 171.01)
§ 51.02 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   All property owners within the village limits are required to connect to the
sanitary sewerage system.
(2010 Code, § 171.01)
§ 51.03 CONNECTION FEES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Applicants for service, either within or outside the corporate limits,
in addition to the cost of approved installation, shall pay non-refundable
connection fees in the amount of $250 for water service, and in the amount of
$250 for sewer service.
   (B)   A cash performance bond in the amount of $200 must be deposited with
the Water and Sewer Department prior to the installation of a water service
line or sewer service line. This bond shall be returned to the applicant upon
the satisfactory completion of the service line hookup and inspection and
approval by the duly authorized representative of the village.
(2010 Code, § 171.01) (Ord. 22-02-01, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 51.04 WATER AND/OR SEWER SERVICE DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Any user of water and/or sewer services from the village subscribing
for services after the effective date of this chapter shall be required to
deposit with the Water and Sewer Department of the village a sum as set by the
Board of Trustees from time to time for each water and/or sewer service
subscribed by the user. This sum shall be held by the village during the
continuance of the water and/or sewer service in an escrow account for the
water customer.
   (B)   Upon termination of water and/or sewer service, the deposit shall be
refunded to the user after deduction of any unpaid charges accumulated for the
water and/or sewer service which is being terminated.
   (C)   The deposit shall be in addition to all water and/or sewer charges and
connection fees assessed by the village.
   (D)   The deposit shall not be applied against any unpaid water and/or sewer
charges during the continuance of water and/or sewer service, but only upon the
termination of service. Delinquent charges and shut-off provisions of the
village for unpaid water and/or sewer bills shall remain in full force and
effect.
(2010 Code, § 171.01) (Ord. 14-09-02, passed 9-16-2014)
§ 51.05 RATES.
    The fixed rates or charges for the use of, and for the service supplied by,
the combined waterworks and sewerage system of the village, based upon the
amount of water consumed as shown by the water meters, are as follows:
Monthly Water Service Charges
Monthly Water Service Charges
First 4,000 gallons                    $9.97 per 1,000 gallons water consumed
Next 5,000 gallons                     $6.19 per 1,000 gallons water consumed
Next 5,000 gallons                     $5.86 per 1,000 gallons water consumed
Next 5,000 gallons                     $4.90 per 1,000 gallons water consumed
Over 19,000 gallons                    $3.21 per 1,000 gallons water consumed
                                       $38.50 per month based upon the first
                                       2,000 gallons used
                                       For water consumption greater than 2,000
                                       gallons and up to 70,000 gallons per
Minimum water fee                      month, $12.50 per 1,000 gallons of water
                                       used
                                       For water consumption exceeding 70,000
                                       gallons per month, $7.50 per 1,000
                                       gallons of water used
                                       $20 per month for the first 2,400
                                       gallons of water used
                                       An additional charge of $0.35 per each
Minimum sewer fee                      100 gallons of water used up to 10,000
                                       gallons
                                       $0.12 per 100 gallons of water used over
                                       10,000 gallons
Minimum charge for water and sewer     $43.94 per month
combined services
                                       If more than one living unit and/or
                                       using unit are served by a single
                                       metered connection to the system, then
                                       the owner of the multi-unit property
                                       shall be responsible to pay the bills
                                       for each un-metered living unit and/or
                                       using unit as reflected by the said
                                       meter and shall pay a sewer charge of
                                       $20 and a single meter convenience fee
                                       of $5 per unit regardless of occupancy
                                       in addition to the usual monthly service
Multiple units                         charges for water use per the single
                                       meter. If a building or structure has
                                       multiple living units, each with its own
                                       water meter, but no village-owned curb
                                       stops exist outside of the building for
                                       the purpose of shutting water off to
                                       each individual unit, then the owner of
                                       the building, not the individual
                                       resident of each unit, will be
                                       responsible for the water deposit and
                                       the monthly bills and will receive the
                                       monthly bills for each unit until such
                                       time when curb stops are installed.
                                       An annual minimum charge of $1,650 or at
                                       the rate of $82.50 per hydrant,
Fire hydrant rental                    whichever is greater. The charges are to
                                       be made against the village and paid to
                                       the Water and Sewer Fund in equal
                                       monthly installments.
                                       Residential and commercial customers
                                       requiring a separate water service line
                                       and/or meter for fire protection and/or
Lawn and fire sprinkler system service lawn sprinkler system use shall be
                                       charged a minimum sum of $6 per month
                                       per extra line and/or meter plus the
                                       regular rates, minus the sewer fee
                                       applicable.
 
Nonresidential Users
Nonresidential Users
Nonresidential users located outside the corporate limits of the village shall
be charged for water use according to the following schedule:
First 4,000 gallons                $19.43 per 1,000 gallons water consumed
Next 5,000 gallons                 $12.87 per 1,000 gallons water consumed
Next 5,000 gallons                 $11.55 per 1,000 gallons water consumed
Next 5,000 gallons                 $9.72 per 1,000 gallons water consumed
Over 19,000 gallons                $6.43 per 1,000 gallons water consumed
                                   $67.50 based upon the first 2,000 gallons
                                   consumed
Minimum charge for water service   For water consumption greater than 2,000
                                   gallons per month, the water service charge
                                   shall be $21.50 per 1,000 gallons of water
                                   consumed per month
Minimum charge for water and sewer $80.63
combined services
 
(2010 Code, § 171.01) (Ord. 12-02-04, passed 2-26-2012; Ord. 12-11-01, passed
11-20-2012; Ord. 13-08-01, passed 8-6-2013; Ord. 13-10-01, passed - -2013; Ord.
14-01-01, passed 1-21-2014; Ord. 20-12-01, passed 12-1-2020; Ord. 22-04-01,
passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 23-01-01, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 51.06 PAYMENT.
   (A)   General. The rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly, on
the twentieth day of each month. The owner of the premises, the occupant and
the user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable for the service
on the premises and the service is furnished to the premises by the village
only upon the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and user of
the service are jointly and severally liable to the village. All bills for
service shall be rendered monthly as of the third day of the month succeeding
the period for which the service is billed and shall be payable not later than
the close of business on the twentieth day of the same month, unless the
billing date or payment date falls on a holiday or weekend. If payment of the
full amount of the bill is not made within this period, then a penalty of 10%
of the amount of the bill shall be added to the bill. The Water Clerk shall
give the owner or tenant or both, as the case may be, written notice of the
delinquency providing in the notice that water service will be disconnected if
the total delinquency is not paid by a certain date specified in the notice,
which date shall be at least ten days after the date on the notice, and
affording the delinquent customer an opportunity to be heard if he or she
wishes to contest the delinquency, which hearing shall be afforded prior to any
disconnection of water service. Disconnection shall be at least two days after
the date set for the hearing, and shall be after the expiration of the ten days
after the date of the notice. If a customer is moving, the Water Clerk shall
send a final bill for all outstanding charges and the account will be closed,
which shall be due ten days following the date on the final bill. All payments
are to be made by cash, money order, certified check, cashier’s check, or
online payment through the village's website, regardless of whether the
customer is paying or someone is paying on behalf of the customer.
   (B)   Non-sufficient funds (NSF). The customer will be charged a sum as set
by the Board of Trustees from time to time, for any check that is returned for
non-sufficient funds. After the village has received notice of a second
returned check for non-sufficient funds, the account holder will no longer be
allowed to make payments by check and will be required to make payments in the
form of cash, money order or cashier’s check to the village.
(2010 Code, § 171.01) (Ord. 16-08-01, passed - -2016; Ord. 21-10-03, passed 10-
19-2021)
§ 51.07 DELINQUENT CHARGES.
   In the event the charges for services are not paid within at least 18 days
after the mailing of the bill for service, the charges shall be deemed
delinquent. Thereafter, delinquencies shall constitute liens upon the real
estate for which service is supplied and the Clerk is authorized and directed
to file sworn statements showing delinquencies in the office of the Recorder of
Deeds of the county. The filing of the statements shall be deemed notice for
the payment of the charges for service. In addition, village staff is
authorized to use other legal means to collect the said debt.
(2010 Code, § 171.01) (Ord. 16-08-01, passed - -2016)
§ 51.08 DISCONTINUATION FOR NON-PAYMENT.
   (A)   General. If the charges for services are not paid within 30 days after
the date of the bill, the services shall be discontinued without further notice
and shall not be reinstated until all past due bills, including the penalties,
are paid in full, together with payment of a sum as set by the Board of
Trustees from time to time for discontinuation and reinstatement of service for
the first time. The second time service is discontinued for non-payment, the
charges shall be increased for discontinuation and reinstatement of service.
The third time (and thereafter) service is discontinued for non-payment the
charges shall be increased for discontinuation and reinstatement of service.
The customer will continue to pay the said higher discontinuation and
reinstatement fee until the customer has gone 12 months without a
discontinuation for non-payment. An additional charge of a sum as set by the
Board of Trustees from time to time, beyond the above-listed charges, will be
assessed for reinstatement of services if an employee must be called into work
after regular hours or on weekends to perform these duties. All such payments
are to be by cash, money order, certified check or cashier’s check, regardless
of whether the customer is paying or someone is paying the customer’s bill for
him or her.
   (B)   Disconnection for failure to pay. In addition to the other remedies
contained in this chapter, if the balance due for such service is not paid
within 30 days after the mailing of the bill for such services, any and all
owner(s) of record for the property to which service was rendered shall receive
a copy of this chapter and a notice of intended water disconnection via U.S.
mail. The customer shall have seven days from the date of such notice to
request an opportunity to present his, her or its case to the Village Board as
to why water service should not be disconnected. After the expiration of such
seven-day period, if no request has been made, then the village may place a
lien on the property and institute foreclosure proceedings as provided under
certain provisions of the state’s Mortgage Foreclosure Law, 735 ILCS 5/15-1101
et seq., (hereinafter referred to as “IMFL”) or any other applicable law as may
be enacted from time to time by the legislature of the state. In the event the
village prevails in such mortgage foreclosure action, the owner(s) of record
shall be jointly and severally liable for interest accrued on the unpaid
balance in the amount of 5% per annum, and any and all costs of suit, including
attorneys’ fees, court costs, appraisal fees, title insurance or abstract
costs, broker fees and other reasonable expenses incurred in obtaining payment
of the  balance due.
   (C)   Disconnection fees for unpaid sewer charges. In the event that the
village must request a water shutoff from a public utility after due notice,
and an opportunity to be heard is provided to a delinquent customer pursuant to
this chapter and any applicable public utility contract, such delinquent
customer shall be assessed a charge of $75 for the first instance of a sewer-
only water shutoff. If a second shutoff is required after restoration of
services, the delinquent customer shall be assessed a charge of $100 for said
second shutoff. If a third shutoff is required following two service
restorations, the delinquent customer shall be assessed a charge of $150 for
said third shutoff. Such charges must be paid by the delinquent customer,
together with full payment of the arrearage amount before water and sewer
services are restored. When the arrearage amount and the shutoff charges total
$500 or more, the village shall send the owner(s) of record a notice advising
such owner(s) that the unpaid charges and/or rates may create a lien on the
real estate pursuant to state statute and may file a notice of such lien with
the Peoria County Recorder’s Office. Such notice shall consist of a sworn
statement setting forth (1) a description of such real estate sufficient for
the identification thereof, (2) the amount due for such services, (3) the date
on which such amount became delinquent, and (4) the owner(s) of record of the
premises. The village may also opt to exercise its authority to sue the
occupant of the real estate in a civil action to recover the money due for
sewerage services rendered, plus a reasonable attorney’s fee, to be fixed by
the court.
(2010 Code, § 171.01) (Ord. 16-08-01, passed - -2016; Ord. 21-03-05, passed 3-
16-2021)
§ 51.09 WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT TO RENDER BILLS; REVENUES.
   (A)   The Water and Sewer Department of the village shall render bills for
service and for all rates and charges in connection with service and shall
collect all payments.
   (B)   All revenues and money derived from the operation of the combined
waterworks and sewerage system shall be held by the village.
(2010 Code, § 171.01) (Ord. 16-08-01, passed - -2016)
§ 51.10 WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE FUND.
   The Village Treasurer shall receive all revenues from the combined
waterworks and sewerage system and all other funds and money incident to the
operation of the system as may be delivered to him or her. The Treasurer shall
deposit these revenues in a separate fund designated as the “Waterworks and
Sewerage Fund of the Village of Hanna City” and shall administer the Fund in
every respect in the manner provided by law.
(2010 Code, § 171.01) (Ord. 16-08-01, passed - -2016)
§ 51.11 RECORDS.
   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the combined waterworks and
sewerage system. At regular annual intervals, the Treasurer shall cause to be
made an audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the
receipts and disbursements of the combined waterworks and sewerage system.
(2010 Code, § 171.01)
§ 51.12 INSTALLATION OF ADDITIONAL METERS.
   (A)   The village reserves the right to install meters in existing or future
water connections. Where meters are installed, the customer will be responsible
for the cost of the meter and the cost of installation.
(2010 Code, § 171.01)
   (B)   The village reserves the right to install additional meters, other
than the primary meter, in existing or future water connections upon the
village’s determination that an additional meter is required. The reasons for
which an additional meter may be required include, but are not limited to,
faulty existing meters and water loss. Where additional meters are installed,
the village shall be responsible for the cost of the meter and the cost of
installation.
(Ord. 22-02-01, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 51.13 PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   No person not duly authorized shall turn the water on at any fire
hydrant or service cock or use water from these facilities. Any person using or
wasting water in this unlawful manner shall be liable to pay a penalty as
provided for in this code.
   (B)   No storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, surface
drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process water
shall be discharged to the sanitary sewer. In addition, no sump pumps or
downspouts shall be connected to the sanitary sewer. The village and its
employees shall have access at all reasonable times to the premises, places or
buildings where sewer service is supplied, for the purpose of examining and
testing any connections to, and use of, the sanitary sewer.
   (C)   Each user of water service shall be forbidden to connect any portion
of his or her existing private system to any service line connected to the
waterworks system.
   (D)   In all cases where service is connected directly to boilers or other
hot water fixtures that are likely to cause a back water pressure, a check
valve must be installed on the service pipe to prevent injury to meters. All
damages caused to meters by back pressure shall be paid for by the consumer
where the damages occur.
   (E)   The village shall have the right to discontinue water and/or sewer
system use in case of violation of any of these general regulations.
(2010 Code, § 171.01)
§ 51.14 VILLAGE NOT LIABLE.
   All connections and water and sewer service applied for, and all water and
sewer service used, shall be upon the express condition that the village shall
not be liable, nor shall any claim be made against it, for damages or injury
caused by the breaking of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus or
appurtenances connected with the system or plant, or any portion of the plant,
or for any interruption of the supply by the breakage of machinery, stoppage,
alterations, extensions or renewals.
(2010 Code, § 171.01)
§ 51.15 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   The village and its employees shall have ready access at all reasonable
times to the premises, places or buildings where water or sewer service is
supplied for the purpose of examining and testing the consumption, use and flow
of water. It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to interfere with,
prevent or obstruct the village or its duly authorized agent in its duties.
Every consumer of water or user of sewer service shall accept the service upon
the conditions prescribed in this chapter.
(2010 Code, § 171.01)
§ 51.16 FILING WITH COUNTY RECORDER.
   A copy of this chapter, properly certified by the Village Clerk, shall be
filed with the County Clerk and shall be deemed as notice to all owners of real
estate of their liability for service supplied to any user of the service of
the combined waterworks and sewerage system of the village or their properties.
(2010 Code, § 171.01)
§ 51.17 DISCONTINUATION AND REINSTATEMENT OF WATER SERVICES.
   A charge, as set by the Board of Trustees from time to time, shall be made
for any discontinuation or reinstatement of water service requested by the
user.
(2010 Code, § 171.01)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person responsible for violating §
51.13 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in an amount as set by the
Board of Trustees from time to time for each violation. Each day during which a
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(2010 Code, § 171.01)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS GENERALLY
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Use of public sewers required
   
52.03   Private sewage disposal
   
52.04   Building sewers and connections
   
52.05   Public sewer extensions
   
52.06   Public sewer use
   
52.07   Protection of sewage works from damage
   
52.08   Inspectors; powers and authority
   
52.09   Permit applications
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   AUTHORITY or APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Hanna City Sanitary District and/or
the Village of Hanna City.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system in accordance with the provisions outlined in Ch. 51 of this code
of ordinances.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen, expressed in
milligrams per liter (mg/l), utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic
matter under standard laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the
inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CLASSES OF USERS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by waste
characteristics and process or discharge similarities.
   COMBINED SEWAGE. A combination of both sanitary and industrial wastewater
and storm or surface water.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. A pollutant for which the treatment works is designed
to treat, including biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and fecal
coliform bacteria, or a pollutant which the plant is able to remove to a
substantial degree (80% or greater).
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the authority
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
   DEPRECIATION. An annual operating cost reflecting capital consumption and
obsolescence of the treatment works.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
man and animals, which presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq.) as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972,
Pub. Law No. 92-500 and Pub. Law No. 93-243.
   FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. Government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II - Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1281 through
1301, and implementing regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pre-treatment facility
approved by the authority.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the commercial handling, storage and sale of
produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY PERIOD. The period during which the grant amount
allocable to the treatment of wastes from industrial users is recovered from
the industrial users of the works. The INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY PERIOD shall be
equal to 30 years or the useful life of the treatment works, whichever is less,
as determined by the authority.
   INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY. Recovery from the industrial users of a treatment
works of the grant amount allocable to treatment of wastes from users,
exclusive of interest.
   INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Any non-governmental user of publicly- owned treatment works
identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of
Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following
divisions:
         (a)   Division A - Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B - Mining;
         (c)   Division D - Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services; and
         (e)   Division I - Services.
      (2)   A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined
by the authority that it will introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial process, as distinct
from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the authority to inspect
and approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to the
public sewer system.
   LIVING UNIT. Any residential unit of one or more rooms serviced by a kitchen
and a bathroom consisting of a toilet, sink and bathtub, or shower, or
combination thereof.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the public sewer
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317
(a); or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissible.
   METERED USAGE. The metered water usage of any individual customer, unless
separate metering of sewage flow is provided for the customer, in which case it
shall mean metered sewage flow of any individual customer.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used, commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. As defined for the purposes of determining
surcharge, a wastewater or sewage having an average daily suspended solids
concentration of not more than 250 mg/l and average daily BOD of not more than
200 mg/l.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator or appropriated by the Director, after enactment of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to regulate the discharge
of pollutants pursuant to § 402 of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect, necessary
to insure adequate wastewater treatment on a continuing basis in conformity
with related federal, state and local requirements and to assure optimal long-
term facility management.
   ORDINANCE. The provisions set forth in these sections.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity
discharging any wastewater to the wastewater treatment works.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
The pH of any discharge into the public sewer system shall not be less than
5.5, nor more than 9.5.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is 100
gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.22 pounds of
suspended solids.
   ppm. Parts per million by weight.
   PRE-TREATMENT. The treatment of waste- water from sources before
introduction into the wastewater treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any governmental agency having jurisdiction by law over
construction and use of a wastewater collection or treatment facility.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
district or the village, even though those sewers may not have been constructed
with district funds.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
are designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL OR NON- INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user of the treatment
works not classified as an industrial user or excluded as an industrial user,
as provided for in this section.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground water or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water- carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions. The three most common
types of SEWAGE are as follows.
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, storm water, infiltration and inflow earned to the wastewater treatment
facilities by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process earned on in that establishment, including wastes from pre-
treatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRY. Any industry that will contribute greater than 10% of
the design flow and/or design pollutant loading of the treatment works.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 60 minutes, more than two and one-half times the average 24-hour
concentration or flows during normal operation and which shall adversely affect
the collection system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for Examination of Water and
Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STATE ACT. The state’s Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970, being 30 ILCS 405/
1 et seq.
Editor’s note:
   30 ILCS 405 was repealed by P.A. 103-616
   STATE GRANT. The state’s participation in the financing of the construction
of treatment works as provided for by the state’s Anti-Pollution Bond Act and
for making the grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of
Illinois.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the village’s Sanitary District or his
or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge which is
levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in strength than the
concentration values established in this chapter.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism, will cause
an adverse effect, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological
manifestations as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of Pub. Law
No. 92-500.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated, which shall be 30 years from the date of
start-up of any wastewater facilities constructed with a state grant.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance.
   USING UNIT. Any residential unit of one or more rooms serviced by a bathroom
consisting of a toilet, sink and bathtub, or shower, or combination thereof.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated to 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per month levied on all users of the
wastewater facilities. The SERVICE CHARGE shall be in accordance with the
provisions outlined hereunder and shall consist of the total of the basic user
charge, plus a surcharge, if applicable.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with “waste treatment” or “wastewater treatment plant” or “pollution control
plant”.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint, of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the water pollution regulations of the
state.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(2010 Code, § 171.02)
§ 52.02 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property in any area
under the jurisdiction of the authority, any human or animal excrement,
garbage, objectionable waste, wastewater or other polluted waters, which
ordinarily would be regarded as sewage or industrial wastes, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and the NPDES permit.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet, under the jurisdiction of the authority, any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the NPDES permit.
   (C)   Except as provided, no person shall construct or maintain any privy,
privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the
jurisdiction of the authority and abutting any street, alley or right-of-way in
which there is now located or may in the future be located any public sewer of
the authority, is required at his expense to install suitable sanitary
facilities, and to connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after the
date of official notice to do so; provided that, the public sewer is within 200
feet of the property line.
(2010 Code, § 171.02) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
52.02 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, each person shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
authority. The application for the permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the authority, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the approving
authority. A minimum permit and inspection fee, as set by the Board of Trustees
from time to time, shall be paid to the authority at the time the application
is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
approving authority. The authority shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the approving authority when the work is ready for final inspection,
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 48 hours of the receipt of written notice by the approving authority.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the state’s Private Sewage
Disposal Licensing Act and Code, being 225 ILCS 225/5 et seq. and 77 Ill.
Admin. Code 905 with the state’s Environmental Protection Agency. No permit
shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface
soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than 21,600 square
feet (1,944 square meters). No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in division (D) above, a
direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this
section, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the
authority.
   (G)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Department of
Public Health.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the sewer within 90 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(2010 Code, § 171.02) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
openings into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances without
first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk of the authority.
   (B)   Before a permit may be issued for excavating for plumbing in any
public street, way or alley, the person applying for the permit shall have
executed to the authority and deposited with the Clerk of the authority a
corporate surety in a sum as set by the Board of Trustees from time to time,
assuring that he or she will perform faithfully all work with due care and
diligence and in accordance with the laws, rules and regulations established by
the authority or any local, state and federal laws, codes or ordinances
pertaining to plumbing. This bond shall state that the person will indemnify
and save harmless the authority and the owner of the premises against all
damages, costs, expenses, outlays and claims of every nature and kind arising
out of unskillfulness or negligence on his or her part in connection with
plumbing or excavation for plumbing as prescribed in this chapter. The bond
shall remain in force and must be executed for a period of one year; except
that, on its expiration, it shall remain in force as to all penalties, claims
and demands that may have accrued prior to its expiration.
   (C)   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful, except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the Federal Act and more stringent state and local standards.
   (D)   (1)   There shall be five types of building permits as follows:
         (a)   For single-family residential dwelling units and commercial
service;
         (b)   For multi-family residential dwelling units;
         (c)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes;
         (d)   For the institutional class of users; and
         (e)   For service to the governmental class of users.
      (2)   In any case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the authority. The permit applications shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the authority. For the industrial class of users,
the application shall provide information describing its wastewater
constituents, characteristics and type of activity.
   (E)   (1)   At the time of filing a building sewer permit application, a
permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the Clerk of the authority in
accordance with the following schedule for the respective type of building
sewer permit:
 
Type                      Amount
Governmental              As set by the Board of Trustees from time to time per
                          building sewer
Industrial                As set by the Board of Trustees from time to time per
                          building sewer
Institutional             As set by the Board of Trustees from time to time per
                          building sewer
Multi-family residential  As set by the Board of Trustees from time to time for
                          every 5 dwelling units or fractional part
Single-family residential As set by the Board of Trustees from time to time per
                          building sewer and commercial service
 
      (2)   For a period of 30 days after the passage of this chapter, the
permit and inspection fee shall be one-tenth of the fee for each respective
type of building sewer permit given under this chapter.
   (F)   A building sewer permit will only be issued, and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed, if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   (G)   The applicant for sewer service shall pay all costs and expenses
incidental to the installation and connection of the building sewer, as well as
be responsible for the maintenance of the sewer lateral or sewer line from the
point of connection to the village’s water service line and/or sewer service
line, or to the collector sewer of the village if located within the right-of-
way of the village, to the premises of the applicant or user. Upon the
village’s determination that injuries to the village’s main sewer line are
resulting from the lack of a clean out in the sewer lateral, the user shall be
required to install and maintain a sewer clean out at the user’s expense. The
sewer clean out shall be installed on the owner or user’s side of the property
line and as close to the village’s right-of-way line as practicable. The owner
and the person installing the building sewer for the owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly result from the
installation.
   (H)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except, where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
extension considered as the building sewer for the rear building. Multi-family
dwelling units, including apartments and mobile home trailer parks, may use a
single common building sewer for drainage of individual dwelling units.
   (I)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, upon examination and testing by the approving authority,
to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (J)   (1)   The building sewer shall be constructed of:
         (a)   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe and fittings meeting the current
A.S.T.M. Specifications for Extra Heavy Cast Iron Soil Pipe;
         (b)   ABS (Acrylonitrile-Butadiene-Styrene) extra strength solid wall
pipe and fittings meeting the current A.S.T.M. Specifications for ABS Extra
Strength Solid Wall Pipe; or
         (c)   PVD (Polyvinyl Chloride) schedule 40 pipe.
      (2)   If installed in filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall
be of cast iron soil pipe; except that, vitrified clay pipe or ABS solid wall
pipe meeting the above specification requirements may be accepted if laid on a
suitable improved bed or cradle as approved by the authority.
   (K)   (1)   All joints and connections shall be made gas-tight and water-
tight. Vitrified clay sewer pipe shall be fitted with factory-made resilient
compression joints meeting the current A.S.T.M. Specifications for Vitrified
Clay Pipe Joints Having Resilient Properties. Before joining the pipe in the
trench, the bell and spigot surfaces shall be wiped free of dirt or other
foreign matter. A lubricant or sealer as recommended by the pipe manufacturer
shall be applied to the bell and spigot mating surfaces just before they are
joined together. The spigot end shall be positioned into the bell end of the
pipe previously laid and shall then be shoved home to compress the joint and to
assure a tight fit between the interfaces. Joints for cast iron soil pipe shall
be made by inserting a roll of hemp or jute and thoroughly caulking it into
place and then following with pure molten lead, well caulked, not less than one
inch deep.
      (2)   No paint, varnish or putty will be allowed in the joints until they
have been tested and approved.
   (L)   The size and slope of building sewers shall be subject to the approval
of the authority, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four inches.
The slope of the four-inch pipe shall not be less than one- eighth inch per
foot. A slope of one-fourth inch per foot shall be used wherever practical.
   (M)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth shall be sufficient to
afford protection from frost. All excavations required for the installation of
a building sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the
authority. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with
current A.S.T.M. Specification Designation C12; except that, no backfill shall
be placed until the work has been inspected by the authority or its
representative.
   (N)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the drains shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer. No
water-operated sewage ejector shall be used.
   (O)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (P)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the authority, or the procedures set forth
in appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials,
Water Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No.9 and Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All
connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the approving authority
before installation.
   (Q)   More specifically, the connection of a building sewer into the public
sewer shall be made at a “Y” branch or “T” branch, if a branch is available at
a suitable location. If the public sewer has no properly located “Y” or “T”
branch available, the owner shall, at his or her expense, install a “Y” branch
or a “Y” saddle fitting (for ABS truss pipe) at the location specified by the
authority. Under no circumstances will the sewer service protrude into the
sewer main to which the connection is made. The invert of the building sewer at
the point of connection shall be at the same or at a higher elevation than the
invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made and the
connection made secure and water- tight by encasement in concrete. Special
fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the authority.
Manholes shall be constructed at any junction of an eight-inch diameter line or
larger into a public sewer.
   (R)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the authority
when the building is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection shall be made under the supervision of the authority or its
representative.
   (S)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the authority.
   (U)   For all residential, commercial, and industrial buildings constructed
after the effective date of this division (U), a sewer ejector pump shall be
installed three feet below grade, and a sewer clean out shall be installed at
the lateral prior to the lateral’s connection to the village’s main sewer line.
The sewer clean out shall be installed on the owner or user’s side of the
property line and as close to the village’s right-of-way line as practicable.
(Ord. 21-12-01, passed 12-21-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 PUBLIC SEWER EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The authority shall be responsible for determining whether or not an
extension of a public sewer is economically feasible based on the estimated
cost of the extension and the number of existing potential users that will use
the sewer line. If the extension is economically feasible, the authority may
install and pay the cost of the extension at the discretion of the authority.
If the authority elects not to pay the cost of extending the public sewer, then
the person or persons desiring sewer service shall install the extension at
his, her or their own personal expense upon written consent of the authority.
The authority shall not pay for any extensions to an undeveloped area, such as
a subdivision being developed, unless there are sufficient existing residents
or businesses to make the extension economically feasible.
   (B)   The authority must approve all plans and specifications for any
extensions. Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications
must be reviewed and approved by the state’s Environmental Protection Agency,
the state’s Department of Transportation and the county’s Highway Department,
as applicable, for extensions of sewers along or across highways within their
respective jurisdictions.
   (C)   Ownership, right-of-way and title must be conveyed to the authority
for all extensions installed by anyone other than the authority. The authority
shall maintain the extended public sewers thereafter.
   (D)   No extension of the public sewer shall be permitted if, in the opinion
of the authority, the system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the
proposed extension.
(2010 Code, § 171.02)
§ 52.06 PUBLIC SEWER USE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm water, surface water, ground water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water, unpolluted
water or unpolluted industrial process water. The authority shall require the
removal of unpolluted waters from any wastewater collection or treatment
facility if the removal is economical and in the best interests of all users of
those facilities, as determined by the authority.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
the sewers which are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers
or to a natural outlet approved by the approving authority. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the
approving authority, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, or which
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any water or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities, or of such size capable
of, causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch, manure, hair and
fleshing, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders; and
      (5)   Wastes at a flow rate and/or pollutant discharge rate (slugs) which
are excessive over relatively short time periods so that there is a treatment
process upset and subsequent loss of treatment efficiency.
   (D)   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the authority of
any unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise into
the sewer system.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the approving authority, that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
these waters, the approving authority will consider factors such as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies. The following substances are prohibited:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0°
and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three- fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the approving authority;
      (4)   Any water or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the approving authority for these materials;
      (6)   Any water or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the approving authority as necessary after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half life or concentration
which may exceed limits established by the approving authority in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any water or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l at any
time except as permitted by the approving authority in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations;
      (10)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as
permitted by the approving authority in compliance with applicable state and
federal regulations; and
      (11)   Materials which exert or cause any of the following:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
quantities which would constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined in this chapter; and
         (e)   Water or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or which are
amenable to treatment only to a degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to
the receiving waters.
   (F)   (1)   If any water or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated above, and/ or which are in violation of the
standards for pre-treatment provided in Ch. I, EPA Rules and Regulations,
Subch. D, Water Programs, part 128 - Pre-Treatment, Thursday, 11-8-1973, and
any amendments to this subchapter, and which in the judgment of the approving
authority may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment or receiving waters or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the approving authority may do any of the
following:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pre-treatment to an acceptable condition for discharge
to the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the
provisions hereof.
      (2)   If the approving authority permits the pre-treatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the approving
authority, and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances
and laws.
   (G)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the authority, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand and other harmful ingredients; except that, these interceptors or traps
will not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All
interceptors or traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the authority
and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. They will be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature and shall be of
substantial construction, to be gas-tight, water-tight and equipped with easily
removable covers. Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors or
traps shall be maintained by the owner at his or her expense in continuously
efficient operation at all times.
   (H)   Where preliminary treatment or flow- equalizing facilities are
provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at the owner’s expense.
   (I)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial waste or other non- residential wastewater may be required by the
authority to install a control manhole or other suitable structure together
with any necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. These structures, when
required, shall be accessible and safely located and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the authority. The structures shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (J)   The authority may require users of the treatment works, other than
residential users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flow
characteristics. Measurements, tests and analyses shall be made at the user’s
expense.
   (K)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
water and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the authority or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge. The number, type and frequency of
laboratory analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the
authority, but no less than once per year the industry must supply a complete
analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure compliance
with the federal, state and local standards. The owner shall report the results
of measurements and laboratory analyses to the authority. The owner shall bear
the expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting required by the
authority. At any time deemed necessary, the authority reserves the right to
take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be assessed to the user at
the option of the authority. The results of routine sampling and analysis by
the user may also be used for determination of charges, after verification by
the authority.
   (L)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of water
and wastes to which reference is made in this section shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole or other suitable structure
provided, or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and
property. (The particular analysis involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.)
   (M)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangements between the authority and any
industrial concern where an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the authority for treatment. In all such cases, the
provisions set forth in the sewage rate ordinance will be governing factors in
any contracts.
   (N)   The admission into the public sewers of any water or wastes having
harmful or objectionable characteristics shall be subject to the review and
approval of the authority, who may prescribe limits on the strength and
character of those waters and wastes. Where necessary, in the opinion of the
authority, the owner shall provide at his or her expense whatever preliminary
treatment may be necessary to treat those wastes prior to discharge to the
public sewer. Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the authority and the state’s Environmental Protection Agency or the state’s
Department of Public Health, and no construction of any facilities shall be
commenced until approval is obtained in writing. Where preliminary treatment
facilities are provided for any water or wastes, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the authority to
determine that the facilities are being operated in conformance with applicable
federal, state and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain operating
records and submit to the authority a monthly summary report of the character
of the influent and effluent to verify performance facilities against authority
monitoring records.
   (O)   Pre-treatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries
prior to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the
rules and regulations adopted by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and
published in the Federal Register on 11-8-1973 (40 C.F.R. part 403), Federal
Guidelines, dated October, 1973, any more stringent requirements established by
the authority, and any subsequent federal guidelines and rules and regulations.
   (P)   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pre-treated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with division (E)
above.
   (Q)   Agents of the authority shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing of
wastewater discharges and discharge facilities.
(2010 Code, § 171.02) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(2010 Code, § 171.02) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 INSPECTORS; POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The approving authority and other duly authorized employees of the
authority, the state’s Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The approving authority or his or her
representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including
metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries
beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge
to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the approving authority or duly authorized employees of
the authority, the state’s Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the person, the person shall be held harmless for
injury or death to the authority employees and the authority shall indemnity
the person against loss or damage to its property by authority employees and
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the person and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as may be caused by negligence or failure of the person to
maintain safe conditions as required in §
52.06(I) of this chapter.
   (C)   The approving authority and other duly authorized employees of the
authority bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the authority holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on the easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(2010 Code, § 171.02)
§ 52.09 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The building permit application forms may be obtained from the
village’s Sanitary District or the Clerk of the village.
   (B)   The appropriate building permit form, along with all supplementary
material, as outlined in §
52.04 of this chapter, must be returned to the authority, along with the permit
and inspection fee, as outlined in §
52.04 of this chapter.
(2010 Code, § 171.02)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any persons violating the provisions of §
52.06 of this chapter shall be subject to a penalty as set out in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day the violation continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(2010 Code, § 171.02)
CHAPTER 53: WASTEWATER USER CHARGES; INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY
Section
   
53.01   Wastewater service charges
   
53.02   Industrial waste cost recovery
   
53.03   Billing; delinquency
   
53.04   Lien; notice of delinquency; foreclosure
   
53.05   Revenues
   
53.06   Accounts
   
53.07   Notice of rates
   
53.08   Access to records
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Basis for wastewater charges.
      (1)   (a)   The wastewater charge for the use of, and for service
supplied by, the wastewater facilities of the authority shall consist of the
basic user rate for operation and maintenance, a minimum user charge and a
surcharge, if applicable.
         (b)   The minimum user charge shall not be less than that computed by
dividing the annual costs of authority administrative expenses and budgeted
fixed costs, including depreciation, by the total number of users.
         (c)   Through further division (divide total by 12 months), the
monthly minimum required user charge can be computed.
      (2)   The basic user rate shall be based on water usage as recorded by
water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal
concentrations:
         (a)   A five-day, 20°C BOD of 200 mg/l; and
         (b)   A suspended solids (SS) content of 250 mg/l.
      (3)   It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs, replacement,
depreciation, bond indebtedness or improvements and shall be not less than that
computed as follows:
         (a)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities for all works categories;
         (b)   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories
by volume suspended solids and BOD, if possible;
         (c)   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated;
         (d)   Proportion the estimated costs to non-industrial and industrial
users by volume, suspended solids and BOD;
         (e)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal sewage strength; and
         (f)   Compute surcharge costs per 1,000 gallons per mg/l in excess of
normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
      (4)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the
normal concentrations for BOD (200 mg/l) and SS (250 mg/l). The surcharge will
be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for
all wastes which exceed the 200 mg/l and 250 mg/l concentrations for BOD and SS
respectively. Division (E) below specifies the procedure to compute a
surcharge.
   (B)   Measurement of flow. The volume of flow used for computing basic user
charges and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the
lowest even increment of 100 gallons.
      (1)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures
any part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the public
waterworks system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers,
the person shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a
type approved by the authority for the purpose of determining the volume of the
water obtained from these other sources.
      (2)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be
required by the authority if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from
the metered water consumption records.
      (3)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, the meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the authority.
   (C)   Basic user rate.
      (1)   A minimum user charge and basic user rate for the use of and for
service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the authority is established
as follows: a minimum user charge, as set by the Board of Trustees from time to
time, per month, shall be applied to all users.
      (2)   A basic user rate as set by the Board of Trustees from time to time
per 1,000 gallons shall be applied to all users.
   (D)   Surcharge rate. The rates of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as
follows.
      (1)   For BOD, a surcharge rate as set by the Board of Trustees from time
to time, per mg/l per 1,000 gallons shall be applied for waste strength in
excess of 200 mg/l.
      (2)   For SS, a surcharge rate as set by the Board of Trustees from time
to time, per mg/l per 1,000 gallons shall be applied for waste strength in
excess of 250 mg/l.
   (E)   Computation of surcharge. The concentration of wastes used for
computing surcharges shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling
shall be performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the authority and
shall be binding as a basis for surcharges. The surcharge shall computed as
follows:
      (1)   For BOD, multiply the surcharge rate by the strength of the waste
in excess of 200 mg/l, then multiply this product by the total flow discharge
per 1,000 gallons.
      (2)   For SS, multiply the surcharge rate by the strength of the waste in
excess of 250 mg/l, then multiply this product by the total flow discharge per
1,000 gallons.
   (F)   Computation of wastewater charge. The wastewater charge shall be
computed by the following formula:
         W = M + (Vu x UR) + S
      Where:
      W   Amount of wastewater charge ($) per billing period
      M   Minimum user charge for budgeted fixed costs
      Vu   Wastewater volume for the billing period divided by 1,000 gallons
      UR   Basic user rate for budgeted proportional costs, such as operation,
maintenance, replacement and depreciation per 1,000 gallons
      S   Amount of surcharge
(2010 Code, § 171.03)
§ 53.02 INDUSTRIAL WASTE COST RECOVERY.
   No industrial user may discharge sewage into any public sewer until the
village’s Sanitary District and the village have adopted an industrial cost
recovery system which:
   (A)   Meets the requirements of § 204(b)(1)(B) of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1284(b)(1)(B), and
applicable federal regulations; and
   (B)   Has been approved by the agency in accordance with the conditions of
any grant made to the village’s Sanitary District by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency or by the state for the construction of any
part of the sewer system of the village or wastewater treatment works of the
village’s Sanitary District.
(2010 Code, § 171.03)
§ 53.03 BILLING; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   The rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly. The owner
of the premises, the occupant and the user the service shall be jointly and
severally liable to pay for the service to the premises and the service is
furnished to the premises by the authority only upon the condition that the
owner of the premises, occupant and user of the services are jointly and
severally liable to the authority. Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by
the authority treasurer on the first day of the month succeeding the period for
which the service is billed. All sewer bills are due and payable ten days after
being sent out. A penalty of 10% shall be added to all bills not paid by the
fifteenth day after they have been rendered.
   (B)   If the charges for service are not paid within ten days after
rendition of the bill for services, services shall be discontinued without
further notice and shall not be reinstated until all claims are settled.
(2010 Code, § 171.03)
§ 53.04 LIEN; NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY; FORECLOSURE.
   (A)   Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for 20 days after it
has been rendered, the authority treasurer shall file with the county’s
Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the
legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill and a
notice that the authority claims a lien for this amount, as well as for all
charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill. If the user whose bill is
unpaid is not the owner of the premises and the authority treasurer has notice
of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his or her
address is known to the treasurer, whenever the bill remains unpaid for a
period of 45 days after it has been rendered. The failure of the authority
treasurer to record a lien or to mail the notice or the failure of the owner to
receive the notice shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid
bills as stated in division (B) below.
   (B)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for non-
payment and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the charges, after
deducting costs, as in foreclosure of statutory liens. Foreclosure shall be by
bill-in-equity in the name of the authority. The authority attorney is
authorized and directed to institute proceedings in the name of the authority
in any court having jurisdiction over these matters against any property for
which the bill has remained unpaid for 45 days after it has been rendered.
(2010 Code, § 171.03)
§ 53.05 REVENUES.
   (A)   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the Sewerage Account of the Sewerage Fund. All
revenues and moneys shall be held by the authority treasurer separate and apart
from his or her private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of
the authority, and all of these funds, without any deductions whatever, shall
be delivered to the authority treasurer not more than ten days after receipt,
or at whatever more frequent intervals may from time to time be directed by the
village and/or district boards.
   (B)   The authority treasurer shall receive all revenues from the sewerage
system and all other funds and moneys incident to the operation of the system
as may be delivered to him or her and deposit these sums in the account of the
fund designated as the “Sewerage Fund of the Authority”. The treasurer shall
administer the fund in every respect in the manner provided by statute of the
Revised Cities and Villages Act, effective January, 1942, being 65 ILCS 5/0.01
et seq.
(2010 Code, § 171.03)
§ 53.06 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The authority treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts
and shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system. At
regular annual intervals, he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts required to be
recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do in fact meet these
regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system;
      (5)   Number of non-metered users; and
      (6)   A list of users discharging non-domestic wastes (industrial users)
and volume of waste discharged.
(2010 Code, § 171.03)
§ 53.07 NOTICE OF RATES.
   A copy of this chapter, properly certified by the treasurer, shall be filed
in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county and shall be deemed notice
to all owners of real estate of the charges of the sewerage system on their
properties.
(2010 Code, § 171.03)
§ 53.08 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The state’s Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the authority
which are applicable to the authority system of user charges or industrial cost
recovery for the purpose of making audits, examinations, excerpts and
transcriptions to ensure compliance with the terms of the special and general
conditions of any state grant.
(2010 Code, § 171.03)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served by the authority with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit to permanently cease all
violations. The authority may revoke any permit for sewage disposal as a result
of any violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and except
as noted in §
52.02 of this code of ordinances, upon conviction, shall be fined in the amount
as set out in §
10.99. Each day in which any violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the authority for the violation.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of §§
53.03 through
53.08 of this chapter shall be fined as set out in §
10.99 for each offense.
(2010 Code, § 171.03)
CHAPTER 54: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
54.01   Compliance with State Plumbing Code
   
54.02   Approval of water supply
   
54.03   Surveys and investigations
   
54.04   Right of entry
   
54.05   Discontinuing water service for violation
   
54.06   Water supply system clean-up costs
§ 54.01 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   All plumbing installed within the village shall be installed in accordance
with the State Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Admin. Code 890. If, in accordance with
the State Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water, an
approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public
water supply system, the Superintendent of Water will give notice to the water
customer to install an approved device immediately. The water customer shall,
at his or her own expense, install an approved device at a location and in a
manner in accordance with the State Plumbing Code and all applicable local
regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of the approved devices
upon installation and as required by the State Plumbing Code and local
regulations.
(2010 Code, § 171.04)
§ 54.02 APPROVAL OF WATER SUPPLY.
   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit
to be maintained any connection where a private, auxiliary or emergency water
supply other than the regular public water supply of the village enter the
supply or distribution system of the village, unless the private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of the supply shall
have been approved by the Superintendent of Water and the state’s Environmental
Protection Agency.
(2010 Code, § 171.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.03 SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. The surveys and investigations shall be a matter
of public record and shall be repeated at least every two years or as often as
the Superintendent shall deem necessary. Records of the surveys shall be
maintained and available for review for a period of at least five years.
(2010 Code, § 171.04)
§ 54.04 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and the Water
Superintendent or his or her authorized agent shall have the right to enter at
any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of verifying
information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-connection
control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property
served shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any information which he or
she may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on the
property. The refusal of the information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the Superintendent of Water, be deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connections as provided in this chapter.
(2010 Code, § 171.04)
§ 54.05 DISCONTINUING WATER SERVICE FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Water of the village is authorized and directed
to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant, the water service to
any property where any connection in violation of the provisions of the chapter
is known to exist, and to take any other precautionary measures as he or she
may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply distribution mains.
   (B)   Water service to the property shall not be restored until the
conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions
of this section and until a reconnection fee, as set by the Board of Trustees
from time to time, is paid to the village.
   (C)   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Superintendent of Water is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. This action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate
disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or
anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply; provided
that, in the reasonable opinion of the Superintendent of Water or the state’s
Environmental Protection Agency, the action is required to prevent actual or
potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply.
   (D)   Neither the public water supply, the Superintendent of Water, nor its
agents or assigns, shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or
lost revenues which may result from termination of the customer’s water supply
in accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether the termination was with
or without notice.
(2010 Code, § 171.04)
§ 54.06 WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM CLEAN-UP COSTS.
   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of clean-up of
the potable water supply system.
(2010 Code, § 171.04)
CHAPTER 55: ELECTRICITY AGGREGATION
Section
   
55.01   Findings and determinations
   
55.02   Definitions
   
55.03   Aggregation of electrical load
   
55.04   Opt-out program
   
55.05   Adoption of plan of operation and governance of program
   
55.06   Solicitation of bids
§ 55.01 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   The Village Board finds and determines that it is in the best interests of
the village to implement the Electricity Aggregation Program as an opt-out
program pursuant to the terms of the Act and this chapter.
(Ord. 12-04-02, passed - -2012)
§ 55.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The state’s Power Agency Act, 20 ILCS 3855/1-92, as may be amended from
time to time.
   CUSTOMER. Recipients of residential and small commercial retail electric
loads as provided in the Act.
   ELECTRICITY AGGREGATION PROGRAM. A program pursuant to the Act for the
aggregation of residential and small commercial retail electric loads located
within the corporate limits of the village that provides customers with the
opportunity to opt out of participating in that program as provided in the Act.
(Ord. 12-04-02, passed - -2012)
§ 55.03 AGGREGATION OF ELECTRICAL LOAD.
   (A)   The corporate authorities of the village are authorized to operate an
Electricity Aggregation Program pursuant to the Act and for that purpose may
solicit bids and enter into service agreements to facilitate the sale and
purchase of electricity and related services and equipment for those loads
aggregated pursuant to the Electricity Aggregation Program as provided in the
Act.
   (B)   The corporate authorities of the village may exercise the authority to
operate the Electricity Aggregation Program jointly with any other municipality
or county and, in combination with two or more municipalities or counties, may
initiate a process to jointly authorize the Electricity Aggregation Program by
a majority vote of each particular municipality or county as required by the
Act.
(Ord. 12-04-02, passed - -2012)
§ 55.04 OPT-OUT PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Electricity Aggregation Program shall operate as an opt-out
program, whereby customers who do not wish to participate in the Electricity
Aggregation Program may opt out pursuant to the Act.
   (B)   The Village Manager or his or her designee, on behalf of the village,
shall fully inform customers in advance, as provided in the Act, that customers
have the right to opt out of the Electricity Aggregation Program. The
disclosure provided to the customers shall comply with the requirements of the
Act and shall prominently state all charges to be made and shall include full
disclosure of the cost to obtain service pursuant to 20 ILCS 3855/1-92, how to
access service, and the fact that service under 20 ILCS 3855/1-92 is available
to customers without penalty if they are currently receiving service under 20
ILCS 3855/1-92.
   (C)   Upon notification from any customer that the customer wishes to opt
out of the Electricity Aggregation Program, that customer shall be excluded
from the Electricity Aggregation Program.
   (D)   Except for those customers who opt out of the Electricity Aggregation
Program pursuant to this section and the Act, the Electricity Aggregation
Program shall automatically apply for each person owning, occupying,
controlling or using an electrical load center proposed to be aggregated in the
corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 12-04-02, passed - -2012)
§ 55.05 ADOPTION OF PLAN OF OPERATION AND GOVERNANCE OF PROGRAM.
   (A)   The corporate authorities of the village, with the assistance from the
Illinois Power Agency as required pursuant to the Act, shall develop and
approve a plan of operation and governance for the Electricity Aggregation
Program.
   (B)   Before adopting the plan of operation required under division (A)
above and the Act, the corporate authorities shall hold at least two public
hearings on the proposed plan. Before the first public hearing, the corporate
authorities shall publish notice of the hearings once a week for two
consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the village. The
notice shall summarize the plan of operation and state the date, time and
location of each hearing.
   (C)   The plan of operation and governance for the Electricity Aggregation
Program shall:
      (1)   Provide for universal access to all applicable residential
customers and equitable treatment of applicable residential customers;
      (2)   Describe demand management and energy efficiency services to be
provided to each class of customers; and
      (3)   Meet any requirements established by law concerning aggregated
service offered pursuant to the Act.
(Ord. 12-04-02, passed - -2012)
§ 55.06 SOLICITATION OF BIDS.
   The process for soliciting bids for electricity and other related services
and awarding proposed agreements for the purchase of electricity and other
related services for the Electricity Aggregation Program shall be conducted
pursuant to the Act.
(Ord. 12-04-02, passed - -2012)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section
Traffic Rules
   
70.01   Load restrictions
   
70.02   Class II truck route
Parking Regulations
   
70.15   Restrictions following snowfall of more than two inches
   
70.16   Restricted parking during street cleaning
   
70.17   Time limit parking
   
70.18   Parking at curb
   
70.19   Vehicles for sale
   
70.20   Specific areas for no parking
   
70.21   Parking in R1 and R2 zoned areas
   
70.22   Parking on residential lots
   
70.23   Parking in alleys
 
   
70.99   Penalty
TRAFFIC RULES
§ 70.01 LOAD RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any street in the village
when the gross weight on the surface of the road through any axle of the
vehicle exceeds 16,000 pounds. Where lower limits are imposed by ordinance and
signs are posted indicating the limitations, it shall be unlawful to operate a
vehicle in excess of the weight posted, except for the purpose of making a
delivery or picking up a load, in which case, the vehicle may be driven on the
street for not more than the minimum distance necessary for that purpose.
(2010 Code, § 172.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 CLASS II TRUCK ROUTE.
   (A)   There is hereby established within the village the following Class II
truck route:
      (1)   Entering the village from Illinois Route 116 (Farmington Road);
South on Main Street to W. Hanna Street; turn onto Glasford Road.
      (2)   Entering the village from Illinois Route 116 (Farmington Road);
North on First Street to Chicago Street; East on Chicago Street to Main Street;
South on Main Street.
      (3)   Entering the village from Illinois Route 116 (Farmington Road);
North on Main Street to Chicago Street; West on Chicago Street to First Street;
South on First Street to Illinois Route 116 (Farmington Road).
      (4)   Entering the village from S. Hanna City Glasford Road; East on
Hanna Street; turn South onto Second Street or continue East to Main Street and
turn North.
   (B)   No commercial motor vehicles shall be permitted on N. Runkle Street,
First Street (excluding the portion of First Street between Illinois Route 116
and Chicago Street), Second Street, or Third Street, unless otherwise provided
for herein.
(Ord. 20-11-01, passed 11-3-2020)
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 70.15 RESTRICTIONS FOLLOWING SNOWFALL OF MORE THAN TWO INCHES.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on the following public streets in
the village on the specified days after a snowfall of more than two inches:
   (A)   All east-west streets on Monday, Wednesday and Friday; and
   (B)   All north-south streets on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.
(2010 Code, § 172.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 RESTRICTED PARKING DURING STREET CLEANING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street or
portion of any public street at any time when the street is being cleaned.
   (B)   Signs indicating that a street or portion of a street is being cleaned
shall be posted immediately before the cleaning of the street and shall be
removed after the cleaning of the street is finished.
(2010 Code, § 172.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   Except on Sundays or holidays, it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for
more than one hour in any consecutive period of time between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m. in any area designated as a “restricted parking area”.
(2010 Code, § 172.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 PARKING AT CURB.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked within the left side of the vehicle next to
the curb, except on one-way streets.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to stand or park any vehicle in a street other
than parallel with the curb and with the two right wheels of the vehicle within
12 inches of the regularly-established curb line; except that, upon those
streets which have been marked for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at
an angle to the curb indicated by the markers.
(2010 Code, § 172.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 VEHICLES FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale or to park any vehicle upon any business street from
which vehicle merchandise is peddled.
(2010 Code, § 172.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 SPECIFIC AREAS FOR NO PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle at any time in any of the following
places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a traffic-control officer or device.
(2010 Code, § 172.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 PARKING IN R1 AND R2 ZONED AREAS.
   (A)   Parking of recreational and non-recreational vehicles in areas zoned
R1 and R2 is subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   Recreational vehicles include, but are not limited to, non-
motorized vehicles, boats, campers and trailers; and
      (2)   Non-recreational vehicles include, but are not limited to, trailers
and snow plows.
   (B)   The provisions in Ch. 71 of this code of ordinances relating to
recreational and non- recreational vehicles do not pertain to vehicles that are
standard size and used for standard transportation purposes.
   (C)   There is a limit of three recreational or non- recreational vehicles
parked per residential property that are not parked inside a covered storage
structure in the nature of a garage or shed.
   (D)   Up to one recreational or non-recreational vehicle may be parked on
hard surface in the front yard as long as the vehicle does not encroach on the
right-of-way.
   (E)   An additional recreational or non- recreational vehicle may not be
parked in a front yard or on the street, except when loading, unloading,
cleaning and servicing, which shall not exceed seven consecutive days, nor more
than seven days per calendar month.
   (G)   A recreational or non-recreational vehicle must be parked on a hard
surface (defined as concrete, asphalt or gravel surface) and may not be parked
closer than three feet to any rear or side lot line.
   (H)   No recreational or non-recreational vehicle shall exceed 40 feet in
length, eight feet in width or 11 feet in height.
(Ord. 2018-10-01, passed 10-2-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 PARKING ON RESIDENTIAL LOTS.
   No vehicle shall be parked closer than three feet from a side or rear lot
line, nor on other than a gravel or paved surface.
(Ord. 2018-10-01, passed 10-2-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No vehicle, recreational vehicle or non- recreational vehicle shall be
parked in any alley such that less than a ten-foot wide clear passage is left
for emergency vehicles and other vehicles traveling on the alley.
(Ord. 2018-10-01, passed 10-2-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of any part of §§
70.21 through
70.23 of this chapter shall result in a fine as set by the Board of Trustees
from time to time, in addition to any costs or charges connected with the
removal and storage of the recreation vehicle as follows:
      (1)   First offense:
         (a)   If paid within seven days of violation: a penalty as set by the
Board of Trustees from time to time;
         (b)   If paid after seven days, but within ten days of violation: a
penalty as set by the Board of Trustees from time to time; and
         (c)   If paid after ten days of violation: a penalty as set by the
Board of Trustees from time to time.
      (2)   Second offense: a penalty as set by the Board of Trustees from time
to time; and
      (3)   Third offense: towing of the vehicle, any and all charges at
vehicle owner’s expense.
   (C)   In all events, each day the violation exists shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2018-10-01, passed 10-2-2018)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts and UTVs
   
71.01   Traffic laws applicable
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Rules and regulations
   
71.04   Equipment requirements
   
71.05   Permit requirements
   
71.06   Operation of non-highway vehicles on village streets
Riding Lawn Mowers
   
71.20   Traffic laws applicable
   
71.21   Recreational use prohibited
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS AND UTVS
§ 71.01 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLICABLE.
    Any person who operates a golf cart or UTV on the streets in the village
shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a motor
vehicle by this traffic code, as well as all other state traffic laws, and must
adhere to all applicable laws concerning possession and use of alcoholic
beverages and all other illegal drugs.
(Ord. 15-09-01, passed - -2015; Ord. 24-11-01, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. The meaning defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-123.9, namely, a vehicle
specifically designed and intended for the purposes of transporting one or more
persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment while engaged in the
playing of golf, supervising the play of golf or maintaining the condition of
the grounds on a public or private golf course; provided, however, that, the
term shall not include all-terrain vehicles (ATV); mopeds; snowmobiles; riding
lawn mowers or any low-speed vehicle as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-140.7; a low-
speed electric bicycle as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-140.10; or a low-speed gas
bicycle as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-140.15.
   NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. A motor vehicle not specifically designed to be used on
a public highway, including:
      (1)   An all-terrain vehicle (ATV) as defined by § 1-101.8 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code;
      (2)   An off-highway motorcycle, including dirt bikes, as defined by § 1-
153.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code; and
      (3)   Recreational off-highway vehicles, including UTVs (utility task
vehicles including side by sides), as defined by § 1-168.8 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code.
   VILLAGE STREETS. Any of the streets within the boundaries of the village,
except for state and county roads.
(Ord. 15-09-01, passed - -2015; Ord. 21-05-04, passed 5-17-2021; Ord. 21-06-04,
passed 6-15-2021; Ord. 24-11-01, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 71.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Golf carts and UTVs may be operated on village streets except
that it shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a golf cart or UTV
upon those village streets so designated by appropriate signs posted within the
village.
      (2)   Golf carts and UTVs shall only be operated from sunrise to sunset
and shall not be operated in inclement weather, nor when visibility is impaired
by weather, smoke, fog or other conditions limiting visibility, nor at any time
when there is insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on the
roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   (B)   A person operating a golf cart or UTV on village streets must comply
with the following requirements:
      (1)   A person who operates a golf cart or UTV must have a valid driver’s
license issued in his or her name by the Secretary of State of Illinois or any
other state.
      (2)   A person who operates a golf cart or UTV must meet the mandatory
insurance requirements specified by the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code.
      (3)   A person who operates a golf cart or UTV or is in actual physical
control of a golf cart or UTV while under the influence of alcohol, drugs or
intoxicating compounds is subject to 625 ILCS 5/11-501 and 625 ILCS 5/11-502.
      (4)   A person who operates a golf cart or UTV must be 18 years of age or
older.
      (5)   A person shall not operate a golf cart or UTV in excess of 20 miles
per hour.
      (6)   A person shall not operate a golf cart or UTV without a lighted
headlight and tail lamps as required by 625 ILCS 5/12-201.
      (7)   A person shall not operate a golf cart or UTV on sidewalks, in
village parks or other public places, other than designated parking areas.
      (8)   A person shall not operate a golf cart or UTV unless all occupants
are properly restrained with seatbelts, and shall not carry passengers
exceeding the golf cart’s or UTV’s maximum occupancy.
      (9)   A person shall only operate a golf cart or UTV on village streets
where the posted speed limit is 35 miles per hour or less.
      (10)   A person shall not operate a golf cart or UTV on designated
village streets, except to cross at designated points as authorized by the
village.
(Ord. 15-09-01, passed - -2015; Ord. 24-11-01, passed 11-5-2024)  Penalty, see
§
71.99
§ 71.04 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    All golf carts or UTVs operated on village streets must be inspected
by the person designated by the Village President or Board of Trustees of the
village and shall be equipped with the following: brakes; a steering apparatus;
tires; a rearview mirror; red reflectorized warning devices in front and rear;
a slow-moving emblem on the rear of the golf cart or UTV (as required of other
vehicles by 625 ILCS 5/12-709); a headlight that emits a white light visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the front; a tail lamp that emits a red light
visible from at least 100 feet from the rear; brake lights; turn signals; and
seat belts for all occupants.
   (B)   No unsafe modifications shall be made to a golf cart’s or UTV’s
suspension.
(Ord. 15-09-01, passed - -2015; Ord. 24-11-01, passed 11-5-2024) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   A person who operates a golf cart or UTV on village streets must
obtain a permit from the Village Clerk, as provided herein. Permits shall be
valid for a period of one year and must be renewed annually.
      (2)   Every application for a permit shall be on a form supplied by the
village.
      (3)   The applicant must furnish evidence of insurance coverage, pay an
application fee of $50 to the village, and sign a waiver of liability releasing
the village from any and all future claims involving the operation of the golf
cart or UTV on village streets.
   (B)   The Village President or the Board of Trustees may suspend or revoke a
permit granted hereunder upon a finding that the holder thereof has violated
any of the provisions of this subchapter or there is evidence that the holder
thereof cannot safely operate a golf cart or UTV on the designated roadways.
(Ord. 15-09-01, passed - -2015; Ord. 24-11-01, passed 11-5-2024)  Penalty, see
§
71.99
§ 71.06 OPERATION OF NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES ON VILLAGE STREETS.
   Non-highway vehicles, including ATVs and off-highway motorcycles, but
excluding golf carts and UTVs, shall not be operated on village streets and
alleys at any time.
(Ord. 21-05-04, passed 5-17-2021; Ord. 21-06-04, passed 6-15-2021; Ord. 24-11-
01, passed 11-5-2024) Penalty, see §
71.99
RIDING LAWN MOWERS
§ 71.20 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLICABLE.
   Any person who operates a riding lawn mower on the streets in the village in
accordance with §
71.21 of this chapter shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the
driver of a motor vehicle by this traffic code, as well as all other state
traffic laws, and must adhere to all applicable laws concerning possession and
use of alcoholic beverages and all other illegal drugs, except as to those
provisions by said laws which, by their nature, can have no application. No
person shall operate a riding lawn mower on the streets in the village from
dusk until dawn.
(Ord. 15-09-01, passed - -2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 RECREATIONAL USE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No riding lawn mower shall be permitted on village streets, state
roads, township roads or county roads as a recreational means of
transportation.
   (B)   Riding lawn mowers are permitted on village streets, state roads,
township roads or county roads only for traveling from site to site for the
purpose of mowing lawns, snow removal or tilling and any other use is hereby
prohibited. No person shall operate a riding lawn mower on the streets in the
village for any purpose from dusk until dawn.
(Ord. 15-09-01, passed - -2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)    Any violation of any of the provisions of §§
71.01 through
71.06 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine as set by the Board of
Trustees from time to time.
      (2)   A second violation of any of the provisions of §§
71.01 through
71.06 of this chapter, in addition to any fine imposed, shall be grounds for
the revocation of any permit issued for a period of up to one year.
      (3)   The Board of Trustees reserves the right to amend or repeal §§
71.01 through
71.06 of this chapter at any time, and if such amendment or repeal affects the
right of a permit holder, shall notify the permit holder by certified mail.
      (4)   No person receiving a permit pursuant to the terms of §§
71.01 through
71.06 of this chapter shall have any right to the continuation of §§
71.01 through
71.06 of this chapter, regardless of the costs of rendering a golf cart or UTV
in compliance with the requirements as set forth in §§
71.01 through
71.06 of this chapter for the purpose of its operation on village streets.
      (5)   The village shall not under any circumstances be liable for any
expense incurred by an applicant or permit holder for the costs of rendering a
golf cart in compliance with the requirements as set forth in §§
71.01 through
71.06 of this chapter for the purpose of its operation on village streets.
(Ord. 15-09-01, passed - -2015; Ord. 21-05-04, passed 5-17-2021; Ord. 24-11-01,
passed 11-5-2024)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop intersections
      
II.   Yield intersections
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The authorized traffic-control signs in the village are in the following
locations:
Street/Location Side/Direction
Street/Location                                  Side/Direction
Balagna Court, where it joins Farmington Road    East side of north-bound
Brad Court, where it joins Pekin Lane            South side of east-bound
Carole Street, where it joins Murphy Road        South side of east-bound
Carole Street, where it joins Farmington Road    West side of south-bound
Center Street, where it joins Glasford Road      North side of west-bound
Chicago Street, where it joins First Street      North side of west-bound
Chicago Street, where it joins Runkle Street     North side of west-bound
Chicago Street, where it joins Main Street       North side of west-bound
Chicago Street, where it joins First Street      South side of east-bound
Chicago Street, where it joins Main Street       South side of east-bound
Chicago Street, where it joins Phil Gould Drive  South side of east-bound
Clausen Court, where it joins Pekin Lane         North side of west-bound
Court Street, where it joins Glasford Road       North side of west-bound
Elbert Court, where it joins Nora Street         West side of south-bound
First Street, where it joins Farmington Road     West side of south-bound
First Street, where it joins Hanna Street        West side of south-bound
First Street, where it joins Farmington Road     East side of north-bound
First Street, where it joins Logan Street        East side of north-bound
First Street, where it joins Logan Street        West side of south-bound
Glasford Road, where it joins Farmington Road    East side of north-bound
Hanna Street, where it joins Main Street         South side of east-bound
Hanna Street, where it joins Main Street         North side of east-bound
Hanna Street, where it joins Second Street       North side of west-bound
Hanna Street, where it joins Second Street       South side of east-bound
Hanna Street, where it joins Glasford Road       North side of west-bound
Jo-Lynn Drive, where it joins Phil Gould Drive   North side of west-bound
JoDan Court, where it joins Murphy Road          South side of east-bound
Lakeshore Drive, where it joins Farmington Road  West side of south-bound
Lakeview Drive, where it joins Lakeshore Drive   North side of west-side
Lakeview Drive, where it joins Carole Street     South side of east-bound
Logan Street, where it joins Runkle Street       South side of east-bound
Logan Street, where it joins Main Street         North side of west-bound
Logan Street, where it joins Main Street         South side of east-bound
Logan Street, where it joins First Street        North side of west-bound
Luellyn Court, where it joins Farmington Road    East side of north-bound
Main Street, where it joins Farmington Road      East side of north-bound
Main Street, where it joins Hanna Street         West side of south-bound
Main Street, where it joins Farmington Road      West side of south-bound
Main Street, where it joins Hanna Street         East side of north-bound
Main Street, where it joins Nora Street          East side of north-bound
Main Street, where it joins Logan Street         West side of south-bound
McAllister Road, where it joins Farmington Road  West side of south-bound
Murphy Road, where it joins Farmington Road      West side of south-bound
Murphy Road, where it joins Farmington Road      East side of north-bound
Nora Street, where it joins Runkle Street        South side of east-bound
Nora Street, where it joins Runkle Street        North side of west-bound
Pekin Lane, where it joins Farmington Road       West side of south-bound
Pekin Lane, where it joins McAllister Road       North side of north-bound
Peoria Street, where it joins Runkle Street      North side of west-bound
Peoria Street, where it joins Runkle Street      South side of east-bound
Peoria Street, where it joins First Street       North side of west-bound
Peoria Street, where it joins Main Street        South side of east-bound
Peoria Street, where it joins Main Street        North side of west-bound
Phil Gould Drive, where it joins Lakeshore Drive South side of south-bound
Robin Court, where it joins Glasford Road        North side of west-bound
Runkle Street, where it joins Hanna Street       West side of south-bound
Runkle Street, where it joins Farmington Road    West side of south-bound
Runkle Street, where it joins Farmington Road    East side of north-bound
Runkle Street, where it joins Chicago Street     East side of north-bound
Runkle Street, where it joins Logan Street       East side of north-bound
Runkle Street, where it joins Nora Street        East side of north-bound
Second Street, where it joins Hanna Street       East side of north-bound
Second Street, where it joins Hanna Street       West side of south-bound
Second Street, where it joins Farmington Road    West side of south-bound
Second Street, where it joins Farmington Road    East side of north-bound
Third Street, where it joins Farmington Road     East side of north-bound
Third Street, where it joins Farmington Road     West side of south-bound
Third Street, where it joins Hanna Street        West side of south-bound
Walnut Street, where it joins Hanna Street       West side of south-bound
Walnut Street, where it joins Farmington Road    West side of south-bound
Walnut Street, where it joins Farmington Road    East side of north-bound
Walnut Street, where it joins Chicago Street     East side of north-bound
 
(2010 Code, § 172.01)
SCHEDULE II. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The authorized traffic-control signs in the village are in the following
locations:
Street/Location Side/Direction
Street/Location                                       Side/Direction
Albert Court, where it joins Nora Street              West side of south-bound
Alley parallel with and between North Main Street and
North First Street where the alley joins Chicago      East side of north-bound
Street
Chicago Street, where it joins North First Street     South side of east-bound
Chicago Street, where it joins North First Street     North side of west-bound
Chicago Street, where it joins North Main Street      North side of west-bound
Chicago Street, where it joins North Second Street    North side of west-bound
Chicago Street, where it joins North Main Street      South side of east-bound
Chicago Street, where it joins North Runkle Street    South side of east-bound
Lake View Drive, where it joins Lake Shore Drive      North side of south-bound
Nora Street, where it joins North Main Street         North side of west-bound
Peoria Street, where it joins North First Street      North side of west-bound
Peoria Street, where it joins North Runkle Street     South side of east-bound
Peoria Street, where it joins North Main Street       South side of east-bound
Peoria Street, where it joins North Main Street       North side of west-bound
South First Street, where it joins Hanna Street       West side of south-bound
South Runkle Street, where it joins Hanna Street      West side of south-bound
South Third Street, where it joins Hanna Street       West side of south-bound
 
(2010 Code, § 172.01)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   County regulations adopted by reference
   
90.02   Definition
   
90.03   Animal Control Officer
   
90.04   Dog inoculation and registration required
   
90.05   Animals running at large
   
90.06   Impoundment procedure
   
90.07   Animal offenses and nuisances
   
90.08   Enforcement
   
90.09   Housing
   
90.10   Driving, riding animals
   
90.11   Chickens
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Ch. 92
§ 90.01 COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county’s ordinance, Chapter 5, Animals and Fowl, is adopted herein by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(2010 Code, § 175.01)
§ 90.02 DEFINITION.
   The word ANIMAL, wherever used in this chapter, shall include dogs, cats and
any other mammal species, both male and female, other than human persons.
(2010 Code, § 175.01)
§ 90.03 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   The village may employ a person or persons, to be designated the “Animal
Control Officer”, for purposes of this chapter with the following
responsibilities and powers.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer shall impound, or cause to be impounded,
and shall dispose of, according to the provisions in this code, all animals
running at large within the village. The officer shall maintain a record of
every animal impounded, describing the breed, color and sex, together with the
time and place the animal was captured, the final disposition made of each
animal and any other information obtained.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer shall be responsible for the general
administration and enforcement of the provisions contained in this chapter and
may make complaints and issue citations for violations of these provisions.
   (C)   The Animal Control Officer is clothed with police powers and, before
entering upon his or her duties, shall take the oath of office prescribed for
all other police officers of the village. The officer shall wear the uniform
the Board prescribes and shall be furnished with equipment as provided by the
Board.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the Animal
Control Officer, or any of his or her assistants, in the performance of their
duties, or to prevent or attempt to prevent any of them from capturing or
impounding any animal within the village.
(2010 Code, § 175.01) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DOG INOCULATION AND REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No dog shall be permitted to be in or remain in the village without
being inoculated against rabies and registered pursuant to Chapter 5, Article
II of the Peoria County Code of Ordinances. Evidence of such inoculation shall
be entered upon a certificate, the form of which shall be approved by the
County Board, and the certificate shall be signed by the licensed veterinarian
administering the vaccine.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owner of a dog to procure an inoculation
tag from the county and cause such inoculation tag to be securely attached to a
collar or harness to be worn by the dog whenever the dog is not confined in a
secure enclosure. If a dog is not inoculated and registered, said dog shall be
impounded and may be redeemed or disposed of as set forth in the impoundment
procedures of this chapter.
(2010 Code, § 175.01) (Ord. 21-05-03, passed 5-17- 2021)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   The owner, possessor or keeper of any animal shall keep the animal under
restraint at all times and shall not permit the animal to be at large off the
premises or property of the owner, possessor or keeper. Any animal shall be
deemed to be at large when it is off the property of its owner, possessor or
keeper and not under control of a competent person either by leash, cord, chain
or otherwise. An animal is under RESTRAINT, within the meaning of this section,
if it is controlled by a leash, “at heal” beside a competent person and is
obedient to that person’s commands, on or within a vehicle being driven or
parked on the streets or within the property limits of its owner, possessor or
keeper.
(2010 Code, § 175.01)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Every animal running at large within the village shall be impounded by
the Animal Control Officer. Impoundment may be made in any public animal pound.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer to notify, by mail,
the owner of every animal impounded, if known, that the animal has been
impounded and the place of impoundment, giving the date the animal was
impounded. It shall be the duty of the owner of the impounded animal to
immediately redeem the animal, unless the animal has been impounded for biting
some person within the village or is afflicted or suspected of being afflicted
with rabies and is being held for observation. Upon the neglect or failure of
any person owning any impounded animal to redeem the animal within seven days
from the date of mailing the notice of impoundment, the animal may be redeemed
by any other person by paying to the Animal Control Officer or to the Village
Treasurer all charges accrued for impounding the animal. Every dog redeemed
must have attached to its collar a licensed dog tag for the calendar year
before being released by the Animal Control Officer. If the owner fails to
redeem the impounded animal within 24 hours after receipt of the notice, a
charge shall be made as set by the Board of Trustees from time to time per day,
commencing from the expiration of the 24-hour period until the animal has been
redeemed. This charge shall be in addition to the redemption fee provided for
in division (C) below.
   (C)   For the first violation, the prevailing rates charged by the animal
shelter and by the village shall be charged for every animal impounded at that
shelter. For the second violation, the fee shall be twice that for the first
violation. For the third violation, the fee shall be three times that for the
first violation.
   (D)   No impounded animal which has bitten a person shall be redeemed before
the expiration of ten days, as provided in division (E) below.
   (E)   Every animal not afflicted with rabies, which has been impounded for
biting any person within the village, may be redeemed at the end of ten days,
upon payment to the village of all charges and expenses incurred for impounding
and keeping the animal. Unless all expenses and charges incurred by the village
for impounding or confining any animal which has bitten any person in the
village shall be paid within four days after the period for impounding the
animal has expired, the animal shall be destroyed by the Animal Control
Officer.
   (F)   Any animal not redeemed after notice in accordance with the provisions
of this section may be destroyed in a modern lethal chamber to be used for the
purpose of destroying animals or may be destroyed by a licensed veterinarian in
any humane manner, upon written order of the Animal Control Officer.
(2010 Code, § 175.01)
§ 90.07 ANIMAL OFFENSES AND NUISANCES.
   (A)   Barking dogs. No person owning, possessing or harboring any animal
within the village shall permit the barking of the animal to disturb the peace
and quiet of any neighborhood where the animal is kept, harbored or resides.
Any person residing in a neighborhood, whose peace and quiet has been disturbed
by any animal harbored in the neighborhood may make a sworn complaint before
the proper police officials against the owner, possessor, keeper or harborer of
the animal. Any owner, possessor, keeper or harborer of any animal which
disturbs the peace and quiet of any neighborhood in violation of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided for in this chapter.
   (B)   Cruelty to animals. It shall be unlawful for any person to cruelly
treat any animal in the village in any way. Any person who inhumanely beats,
underfeeds, overloads or abandons any animal shall be deemed guilty of
violating this section. It shall be unlawful for any person to, by any means,
either willfully or for want of reasonable care, frighten any horse, mule or
other animal, being at the time attached to any vehicle or in charge of any
person.
   (C)   Exhibiting animals. Exhibitions or parades of animals which are ferae
naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only upon securing a permit
from the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Diseased animals. No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or
infectious disease shall be allowed to run at large, or to be exposed in any
public place where the health of human or beast may be affected, nor shall any
diseased animal be shipped or removed from the premises of the owner, except
under the supervision of the County Veterinarian.
   (E)   Encouraging to fight. It shall be unlawful for any person to set any
dogs or other animals or fowls to fighting, or to in any manner encourage them
after they have commenced to fight.
   (F)   Animals in heat. Any owner or keeper of any female animal residing
within the limits of the village shall keep the animal, while in heat, in a
tight enclosure for a period of 20 days from the beginning of heat.
(2010 Code, § 175.01) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to liberate, or attempt to
liberate, any impounded animal or any animal captured or confined within a
vehicle under the control of the Animal Control Officer or any police officer
for conveyance to the animal pound.
   (B)   Any animal suspected of being afflicted with rabies, running at large
within the village, may be slain by the Animal Control Officer, or by any
police officer, sheriff, deputy sheriff or other law enforcement officer, if
the officer deems it essential to the safety of any person within the village.
   (C)   Any fierce or dangerous animal running at large within the village,
whose capture endangers or threatens the safety of the Animal Control Officer,
or his or her assistants, may be slain by the officer or assistants.
   (D)   In addition to the powers given to the Animal Control Officer, any
police officer may issue a notice to appear to any person suspected of
violating any provision of this chapter and may impound or cause to be
impounded any animal running at large.
(2010 Code, § 175.01)
§ 90.09 HOUSING.
   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal is or
may be kept to become unclean or unwholesome, and it shall be unlawful to keep
any live swine, pigs, sheep or horses in the village. It shall be unlawful to
keep or have any goats anywhere in the village, or any cattle, sheep, horses or
chickens within 150 feet of any residence, other than the residence of the
person keeping the animals.
(2010 Code, § 175.01) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 DRIVING, RIDING ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive any horse or
other animal in the village at a greater speed than eight miles an hour or to
race any horse or other animal on any public street, avenue or alley.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to immoderately ride or drive any
horse, mule or other animal on any avenue, street or alley of the village, or
to willfully or heedlessly drive any animal so that the animal or any vehicle
attached to it shall collide with any other vehicle or shall strike any person.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit to run loose in the
village or to lead, ride or drive any animal upon any sidewalk.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive any horse, mare,
mule or gelding or other beast of burden violently or carelessly through or
along any street, lane, alley or other public thoroughfare in the village so as
to endanger the safety of any person or property.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any driver of any horse, team or other
vehicle to stop in any public street or other public thoroughfare in the
village so as to obstruct the street or other public thoroughfare in a manner
which will prevent any horse, team or other vehicle from passing, except in the
case of absolute necessity, or to hinder or stop any pedestrian from pursuing
his or her journey on the sidewalks and street crossings. In all cases, persons
meeting each other riding on horseback or driving any wagon or other vehicle on
any street or other public highway in the village shall each turn off to the
right to enable persons and vehicles to pass each other without delay or
accident.
(2010 Code, § 175.01) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 CHICKENS.
   All chickens must be kept in compliance with the following requirements.
   (A)   No person shall keep or maintain more than six chickens in any
residential area within the village limits. Roosters are prohibited.
   (B)   Chickens are only permitted on lots with a zoning classification of R-
1 and are inhabited on a full-time basis. No chickens are permitted at multi-
family dwellings.
   (C)   The pen, poultry house, or other structure shall be located behind the
rear plane of the existing dwelling (not in the front or side yard) and
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times. Said structure must
be located a minimum of five feet from any adjoining property line.
   (D)   Shelter of chickens shall be covered and ventilated to protect animals
from inclement weather and predators. Electric service to the structure shall
not be provided by an extension cord.
   (E)   Storage vessels for containing feed shall be impervious to pest and
vermin.
   (F)   Chickens must be maintained in a humane condition. Chickens may be
slaughtered only for the owner's personal consumption and may not be sold or
otherwise distributed.
   (G)   Waste must not be stockpiled to create a nuisance or odor.
   (H)   Chickens kept in pursuant to this section must be kept in a manner so
as to not cause inconvenience or disturbance to other persons by reason of
noise, odor or nuisance.
   (I)   Any person who violates, neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who
resists or opposes the enforcement of, any provision of this chapter, upon
conviction thereof shall be fined no less than $50, nor more than $300, and
such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day
during which said violation continues.
(Ord. 20-06-02, passed 6-16-2020)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision contained in this chapter shall be punished
by a fine as set forth in §
10.99. Each day any violation of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
(2010 Code, § 175.01)
CHAPTER 91: INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Definition
   
91.02   Public nuisance
   
91.03   Notice to abate
   
91.04   Motor vehicle removal notice
   
91.05   Motor vehicle liens and personal judgment
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITION.
   An INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE is any motor vehicle from which, for a period of
at least seven days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on
which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise
so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power.
(2010 Code, § 175.02)
§ 91.02 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It shall be declared a menace to the public safety and welfare and a public
nuisance for any person to cause, permit or allow to remain in the open the
existence or storage upon any publicly- or privately- owned premises or land an
inoperable motor vehicle within the village. It is permissible to keep
inoperable vehicles stored in any fully enclosed building, to keep inoperable
historic motor vehicles over 25 years of age which are licensed by the state or
to keep inoperable motor vehicles on the premises of a duly authorized place of
business engaged in wrecking or junking motor vehicles.
(2010 Code, § 175.02) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   The Zoning and Planning Department and the County Sheriff’s Department
shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and shall notify the owner or
person in control of any private property of any violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Owners or persons in control of private property shall store all
inoperable vehicles in violation of this chapter in a completely enclosed
building or location on the property or otherwise remove them from the
property. Notice for violations of this chapter shall be given by an inspector
of the Zoning and Planning Department or by a Deputy of the Sheriff’s
Department. Service of the notice shall be made by means of personal service of
a copy of the notice or by certified or registered mail of a copy of the notice
which is addressed to the residence or usual place of business of the owner or
person in control of the private property.
   (C)   The notice shall fairly apprise the owner or person in control of the
nature of the nuisance, the duty to abate or remove the nuisance, the duty to
comply with this chapter within seven days of service of the notice and the
penalty for failure to abate or remove the nuisance.
(2010 Code, § 175.02)
§ 91.04 MOTOR VEHICLE REMOVAL NOTICE.
   Upon the failure of the owner or person in control of any property to comply
with the notice to remove and dispose of the inoperable motor vehicle within
seven days of service of the notice provided above, the Sheriff or his or her
deputies are authorized by the Board to remove and dispense with the inoperable
motor vehicle or parts of it. If the notice provided above is returned by the
United States Post Office to the village because of an inability to deliver it,
the village is authorized to remove and dispense with the inoperable motor
vehicle.
(2010 Code, § 175.02)
§ 91.05 MOTOR VEHICLE LIENS AND PERSONAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   All costs and expenses of removing and dispensing of the inoperable
motor vehicle from the private property shall be recoverable from the owner or
person in control of the private property. These costs and expenses shall
constitute a lien on the private property and shall be a superior lien to all
prior existing liens and encumbrances, except taxes; provided that, within 90
days after completion of the removal and disposal of the inoperable motor
vehicle, the village files a notice of lien with the county’s Recorder of
Deeds. Upon payment in full of the costs and expenses, the lien shall be
released by the village.
   (B)   The lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in the case of
mortgages or mechanic’s liens. Suits to foreclose this lien shall be commenced
by the village within three years after the date of filing the notice of lien.
   (C)   If payment to the village for these costs and expenses is not made
within 15 days of the filing of the notice of lien, the village may commence
proceedings in the Circuit Court seeking a personal judgment from the owner or
person in control of the private property from which the inoperable motor
vehicle was removed and disposed of at the time the proceedings were commenced.
The action authorized by this chapter shall be in addition to, and without
waiver of, any other remedies contained in this chapter.
(2010 Code, § 175.02)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Anyone convicted of violating this chapter shall be subject to a fine as set
forth in §
10.99, for each day the violation shall continue.
(2010 Code, § 175.02)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Health and Safety
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Placing offensive matter on property
   
92.03   Discharge of offensive matter; offensive cesspools; dumping
   
92.04   Privies
   
92.05   Obstructing water or drainage
   
92.06   Storing new or used lumber
   
92.07   Poisonous plants
   
92.08   Planting certain trees near sewers prohibited
   
92.09   Accumulation of garbage and debris prohibited
   
92.10   Abandoned property procedure
   
92.11   Deposits in containers
   
92.12   Collection, transportation and disposal
   
92.13   Public health violation ticket
Weeds
   
92.25   Weeds prohibited
   
92.26   Height
   
92.27   Removal; notice
   
92.28   Abatement
   
92.29   Lien for costs
   
92.30   Abandoned residential properties
Nuisances
   
92.45   Enumeration of particular nuisances
   
92.46   Enumeration not exclusive
   
92.47   Nuisances to be removed
   
92.48   Milk regulations
   
92.49   Litter
 
   
92.99   Penalty
HEALTH AND SAFETY
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. Residue from fire used for cooking and heating buildings.
   DEBRIS REFUSE. Combustible trash including, but not limited to, paper,
cartons, boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood
furniture, non-combustible trash including but not limited to metals, tin cans,
metal furniture, dirt, small quantity of rock, pieces of concrete, glass,
crockery or metal waste, steel.
   DUMPSTER. A metal container, capable of being mechanically adapted to the
loading equipment of a garbage truck.
   GARBAGE. Waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food, waste from handling, storage and sale of produce.
   REFUSE. Combustible trash including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture,
non-combustible trash including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans, metal
furniture, dirt, small quantity of rock, pieces of concrete, glass, crockery or
metal waste, steel.
(2010 Code, § 94.01)
§ 92.02 PLACING OF OFFENSIVE MATTER ON PROPERTY.
   No person shall deposit or place upon any lot, street, avenue or alley
within the village, and no person owning a lot in the village shall permit to
be deposited or placed on the lot any and all manner of rubbish, offensive
substances, old fruit, vegetables or meat cans, boxes, old barrels, decayed
fruit, manure, kitchen waste or anything that gives forth any disagreeable or
noisome odor which is otherwise prejudicial to the public health.
(2010 Code, § 94.02) (Ord. 13-05-05, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 DISCHARGE OF OFFENSIVE MATTER; OFFENSIVE CESSPOOLS; DUMPING.
   (A)   No person within the village shall place, throw or permit to be
discharged or to flow from or out of any occupied or unoccupied house or
premises, or permit to be carried or deposited by the action of the sun, wind,
rain or snow into or upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway or other
public place or upon any lot or ground, or into any occupied or unoccupied
premises within the limits of the village, any filthy, foul or offensive matter
or liquid of any kind or to allow or permit this to be done by any person
connected with the premises under his or her control, or shall allow or permit
the contents of any vault, privy or cesspool to rise within less than two feet
of the top thereof.
   (B)   No garbage, debris, rubbish or waste shall be dumped within the
village limits, but rather must be hauled to a place outside the village
limits, at a distance which will not create a nuisance to any resident within
the village limits.
(2010 Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 13-05-05, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 PRIVIES.
   No person shall build, maintain or use any privy or privy vault within the
village.
(2010 Code, § 94.04) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 OBSTRUCTING WATER OR DRAINAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in any street, gutter or public sewer, culvert, water pipe, hydrant or
watercourse within the village.
(2010 Code, § 94.05) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 STORING NEW OR USED LUMBER.
   (A)   All lumber, used or new, shall be stacked in piles at least one foot
above the ground and each stack thereof shall not be more than six feet in
width; nor shall the top thereof be more than six feet above the ground. In no
case shall the stacks of lumber be closer than 30 inches.
   (B)   All new and used lumber shall be stacked or stored in a manner to be
free of rats, mice, termites and rodents. No lumber shall be stacked or stored
in a manner as to be dangerous to anyone in the immediate vicinity thereof.
   (C)   No lumber to which any metal object is attached shall be stacked or
stored outside a building. This shall apply only to that new or used lumber
stacked or stored outside a building or warehouse.
(2010 Code, § 94.06) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 POISONOUS PLANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant any poison ivy or other
poisonous vine or plant within the village so near any public sidewalk, street
or alley as to injuriously affect passersby, or to permit any poisonous vine or
plant to so grow in or upon any premises owned or controlled by him or her.
(2010 Code, § 94.07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 PLANTING CERTAIN TREES NEAR SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant any poplar or cottonwood tree
on any private property in the village within 45 feet of any public sewer,
drain or water pipe.
(2010 Code, § 94.08) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND DEBRIS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Garbage and debris.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit the lot and premises
owned or possessed by him or her to have accumulated thereupon garbage, debris
or waste materials for a period longer than the time between calls by the
franchised garbage hauler as specified in §
92.12 of this chapter.
      (2)   All garbage, debris and waste shall be removed as specified in §
92.12 of this chapter and such premises shall be kept in neat, clean and
sanitary condition.
   (B)   Removal; notice. It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to serve or
cause to be served notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which
garbage and debris are permitted to accumulate in violation of the provisions
of this subchapter, and to demand the abatement of such nuisance within five
days.
   (C)   Abatement. If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within
five days, the Village Clerk may proceed to cause the abatement of such
nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of the same and such expense shall
be charged to and paid by the owner or occupant.
   (D)   Lien for costs.
      (1)   If the owner or occupant charged with expense of abatement shall
fail to pay therefor within 30 days of the date said garbage and/or debris is
removed, then the Village Clerk may cause to be filed within one year of the
date said removal costs are incurred, a notice of lien in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds of the county. The notice shall consist of a sworn statement
setting out:
         (a)   The common description of real estate sufficient for
identification thereof;
         (b)   The amount of money representing the cost of expense incurred or
payable for such abatement;
         (c)   The date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by the
village;
         (d)   The substance of 65 ILCS 5/11-20-15 and this subchapter which
implements 65 ILCS 5/11-20-15; and
         (e)   A description of the abatement activities.
      (2)   Said notice shall also be personally served on, or sent by
certified mail, to the person to whom was sent the tax bill for general taxes
on the real estate for the taxable year immediately preceding the abatement
activities, per 65 ILCS 5/11-20-15.
      (3)   If, for any one parcel of real estate, the village incurred costs
and expenses on more than one occasion during the course of one year, than the
village may combine any or all of the costs and expenses of abatement
activities into a single notice of lien.
      (4)   Proceedings may be enforced to foreclose said lien as set forth in
65 ILCS 5/11-20-15.
(2010 Code, § 94.09) (Ord. 13-05-05, passed - -2013)
§ 92.10 ABANDONED PROPERTY PROCEDURE.
   In the event of a need for garbage and debris removal from “abandoned
residential property”, as defined in 65 ILCS 5/11-20-15.1, as amended from time
to time, the provisions of that statute shall be followed.
(2010 Code, § 94.10)
§ 92.11 DEPOSITS IN CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or place any garbage, within
the meaning of this subchapter, in any alley, street, river or other public
place within the village, nor shall any person deposit or place any garbage
upon private property whether owned by such person or not within the limits of
the village, unless the same shall be enclosed in a suitable container which is
defined to be of a type described in the contract between the village and the
franchised garbage hauler of the village to provide residential waste
collection, transportation and disposal services.
(2010 Code, § 94.11) (Ord. 13-05-05, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.12 COLLECTION, TRANSPORTATION AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The village shall cause to be collected, transported and disposed of
garbage and debris that are deposited in containers as specified in §
92.11 of this chapter. The garbage shall be removed from the premises at least
once each week as nearly as practical throughout all the months of the year.
The village may provide that the exclusive method for collection,
transportation and disposition of garbage, debris, rubbish and ashes to be
allowed within the village shall be through the services of a franchised
garbage hauler contracted by the village and shall not be collected or disposed
of, for hire, in any other manner, except as provided in this section.
   (B)   The terms and conditions of such exclusive method for collection,
transportation and disposal shall be stated in the franchise contract by and
between the village and franchised garbage hauler. The maximum rates to be
charged by the franchised garbage hauler for the collection, transportation and
disposal of garbage and waste material shall be fixed by the village at the
time the franchise contract is granted.
   (C)   The minimum garbage fee for the collection of garbage and waste
materials shall be as set by the Board of Trustees from time to time, per
month. If said fee is not paid promptly, all services shall cease and no more
services shall be rendered to the delinquent until all charges are paid.
(2010 Code, § 94.12) (Ord. 13-05-05, passed - -2013; Ord. 14-09-01, passed 9-2-
2014; Ord. 22-04-02, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 92.13 PUBLIC HEALTH VIOLATION TICKET.
   (A)   The authorized village officer shall have the authority to issue a
public health violation ticket to any person who shall violate the provisions
of this subchapter or the provisions of §§
92.45 through
92.49 of this chapter.
   (B)   The public health violation ticket is a notice to the recipient of the
ticket to correct the named violation.
   (C)   (1)   The violation shall be corrected within ten days or such lesser
time as stated in the section cited by the owner or the occupant of the
premises on which the violation has occurred. Where a violation constitutes an
emergency health hazard, the violation shall be corrected within 24 hours by
the owner or occupant of the premises on which the violation has occurred.
      (2)   However, in the case of an emergency health hazard, the authorized
village official may correct or have the violation corrected on its behalf
without first issuing a public health violation ticket or without waiting 24
hours after the issuance of a public health violation ticket.
      (3)   In all cases it shall be the ultimate responsibility of the owner
and occupier of the premises on which the violation exists to correct the
violation.
   (D)   The public health violation ticket shall contain the name and address
of the violator, the location of the violation, a statement of the violation,
including the specific section of the code being violated, a statement that the
violation shall be corrected within the time specified in the public health
violation ticket, a statement that failure to correct the violation complained
of within the time stated on the ticket may result in the village itself
correcting the violation or the filing of an ordinance violation that may
result, upon conviction, in a fine as set by the Board of Trustees from time to
time each day the violation continues, or both.
   (E)   Service of the public health violation ticket shall be made in the
following manner.
      (1)   The original shall be served on the violator either by personal
delivery or by the regular mail. The authorized village official shall certify
that he delivered the ticket personally to the violator or mailed the ticket by
regular mail to the violator.
      (2)   One copy shall be retained by the authorized village official.
   (F)   Any person who is issued a public health violation ticket and does not
correct the violation within the time limit specified therein shall be subject
to the penalties provided in §
92.99 of this chapter.
   (G)   In no situation shall the ticket enforcement procedure preclude the
village from enforcing public health violations through any other available
remedies provided by this code, state or federal statute, or common law.
(2010 Code, § 94.20)
WEEDS
§ 92.25 WEEDS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit the lot or premises owned or
possessed by him or her, on the street in front of or adjoining the lot or
premises owned or occupied by him or her, to become overgrown with weeds; and
the same shall be cleared and all trash or dirt shall be removed, and such
premises kept in neat and clean condition.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 6-7-2011) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 HEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any weeds, grass or plants other than trees,
bushes, flowers, vegetables or other ornamental plants, to grow to a height
exceeding eight inches anywhere in the village; any such plants or weeds
exceeding such height are declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 6-7-2011) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 REMOVAL; NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of any officer of the village to serve or cause to be
served notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which weeds or
plants are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this subchapter,
and to demand the abatement of the nuisance within ten days.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 6-7-2011)
§ 92.28 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within ten
days, any officer of the village may proceed to cause the abatement of such
nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of the same, and such expense shall
be charged to and paid by the owner or occupant.
      (2)   Removal cost is not a lien on the underlying parcel unless a notice
is personally served on or sent by certified mail to, the person to whom was
sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the property for the taxable year
immediately preceding the removal activities.
   (B)   The notice must be delivered or sent after the removal activities have
been performed, and it must state:
      (1)   The substance of 65 ILCS 5/11-20-15(d) and the substance of this
chapter;
      (2)   The common description of the underlying parcel; and
      (3)   A description of the removal activity.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 6-7-2011)
§ 92.29 LIEN FOR COSTS.
   (A)   If the owner or occupant charged with expense of abatement shall fail
to pay therefor within 30 days, then the Clerk may cause to be filed within one
year a notice of lien in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county.
   (B)   The notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
      (1)   Description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for such abatement; and
      (3)   The date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by the
village.
   (C)   If, for any one parcel, the village engaged in any removal activity on
more than one occasion during the course of one year, the village may combine
any or all costs of each of those activities into a single notice of lien.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 6-7-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-7 and 5/11-20-15
§ 92.30 ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES.
   In the case of ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY, which is defined as any type
of permanent residential dwelling unit, including detached single-family
structures, and townhouses, condominium units and multi-family rental
apartments covering the entire property, and manufactured homes treated under
state law as real estate and not as personal property, that has been unoccupied
by any lawful occupant or occupants for at least 90 days, and for which after
such 90-day period, the municipality has made good faith efforts to contact the
legal owner or owners of the property identified on the recorded mortgage or,
if known, any agent of the owner or owners, and no contact has been made, such
steps will be taken:
   (A)   An effort will be made to locate the owner of the property; and
   (B)   The following records will be maintained:
      (1)   A dated statement of finding by the village that the property for
which the mowing and removal of weeds is to be carried out has become an
abandoned property, which shall include the following:
         (a)   The date when the property was first known to be vacant; and
         (b)   A description of the actions the village took in attempting to
locate the owner of the abandoned property or the agent of the owner of the
property in question. This description should include the date of any such
action.
      (2)   A statement that any action taken to make contact with the owner or
agent of the owner of the property did not result in any actual communication
with the owner or agent;
      (3)   A dated certification by an authorized official of the village
setting forth the weed removal and mowing of grass as the nature of the work as
well as the purpose for the need to perform the work; and
      (4)   A copy of the agreement with the person or company who will be
performing the work which must include the following:
         (a)   The legal name of the person or company;
         (b)   The rate/rates to be charged for mowing and weed removal;
         (c)   An estimate showing the total cost for completing the mowing and
weed removal on this property;
         (d)   Detailed invoices and payment vouchers for all payments made by
the village for mowing and weed removal; and
         (e)   A statement as to whether a competitive bidding process was used
in procuring a person or company to complete the mowing and weed removal. If
so, one must provide a copy of all proposals submitted by the bidders for the
mowing and weed removal.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 6-7-2011)
NUISANCES
§ 92.45 ENUMERATION OF PARTICULAR NUISANCES.
   (A)   The presence of the following within the village is declared to be
detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare and constitutes a
nuisance:
      (1)   Sound, animals or things which interfere with the peace or comfort
or disturb the quiet enjoyment of any person in the village;
      (2)   Anything which is made, permitted, used, kept, maintained, operated
or any building or any animal that is kept in a manner which is offensive,
nauseous, dangerous to life, limb or property, or detrimental to the health of
the persons residing in that area;
      (3)   Any filthy, foul or offensive matter or liquid of any kind
discharged into any street, alley or public place, or on any adjacent lot or
ground;
      (4)   Any lot, ground or premises, within the village, on which stagnant
water may be standing so as to become or likely to become foul, putrid,
offensive or detrimental to the health and comfort of persons residing in the
vicinity thereof;
      (5)   The emission of dense smoke from the chimney or smokestack of any
building or premises or from any garbage or rubbish container;
      (6)   Any spoiled, tainted or diseased perishable agricultural commodity;
and
      (7)   The presence of brush, weeds, dead or dying trees, stumps, roots,
any abandoned or inoperable vehicle or waste material, on land within the
village.
   (B)   In addition to what is herein declared to be a nuisance, those
offenses known to the common law or of the state or federal statutes as
nuisances may, in case the same exist within the village, be treated as such
and proceeded against as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Executive orders in furtherance of the public health, safety, and
welfare lawfully issued by the Governor of the State of Illinois by the powers
vested in Article 5 of the Illinois Constitution and 20 ILCS 3305/7(1), 20 ILCS
3305/7(2), 20 ILCS 3305/7(8), 20 ILCS 3305/7(10), and 20 ILCS 3305/7(12) of the
Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act, 20 ILCS 3305, and consistent with the
powers in public health laws, shall be observed and obeyed by the citizens of
Hanna City and those within its borders. Violations of these lawful executive
orders are hereby declared a public nuisance and it shall be unlawful for any
person, partnership, joint adventure, association, society, club, trustee or
corporation or any officer, agent, employee, factor or any kind of personal
representative to violate any Executive Order of the Governor of the State of
Illinois pursuant to the Governor's powers under Article 5 of the Illinois
Constitution and 20 ILCS 3305/7(1), 20 ILCS 3305/7(2), 20 ILCS 3305/7(8), 20
ILCS 3305/7(10), and 20 ILCS 3305/7(12) of the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency Act, 20 ILCS 3305.
      (1)   Any person or entity having been found guilty of violating any
Executive Order of the Governor of the State of Illinois pursuant to the
Governor's powers under Article 5 of the Illinois Constitution and 20 ILCS
3305/7(1), 20 ILCS 3305/7(2), 20 ILCS 3305/7(8), 20 ILCS 3305/7(10), and 20
ILCS 3305/7(12) of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act, 20 ILCS 3305
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $750 per day that such offense
continues;
      (2)   Any person or entity having been found guilty of violating this
section shall be liable for a fine on a continuing basis and shall be subject
to a $750 fine for each day that said violation continues.
(2010 Code, § 96.01) (Ord. 20-04-01, passed 4-7-2020)
§ 92.46 ENUMERATION NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The various nuisances described and enumerated in this subchapter shall not
be deemed to be exclusive, but shall be in addition to all other nuisances
described and prohibited by this code.
(2010 Code, § 96.02)
Statutory reference:
   Power of village to define, prevent and abate nuisances, see 65 ILCS 5/11-
60-2
§ 92.47 NUISANCES TO BE REMOVED.
   Any person causing a nuisance, as defined in this code, and the owner,
occupant or lessee of land on which any nuisance exists, are required to
correct the nuisance. The correction shall be made within the time limit
enumerated in the notice of violation from the village. In all cases, it shall
be the ultimate responsibility of the owner of the premises on which a nuisance
exists to correct the nuisance.
(2010 Code, § 96.03)
§ 92.48 MILK REGULATIONS.
   The production and handling of milk and milk products sold for ultimate
consumption within the village or its jurisdiction, all inspections, the
issuing and revoking of permits and the serving of milk to the public shall be
regulated by the adoption of the Grade “A” Pasteurized Milk Ordinance, being
the 1965 Recommendations of the United States Public Health Service, three
copies of which are now on file in the office of the Clerk. The ordinance is
adopted and incorporated as if fully set forth in this code.
(2010 Code, § 96.20) (Ord. 13-05-04, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.49 LITTER.
   (A)   LITTER is defined as any discarded, used or unconsumed substance or
waste, including, but not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, debris,
rubbish, glass, metal, plastic or paper containers or other packaging material,
motor vehicle parts, furniture, appliances, oil, carcass of a dead animal, any
nauseous or offensive matter of any kind, any object likely to injure any
person or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature which exists upon
any private property within the jurisdiction of the village. This definition
specifically excludes used or antiquated farm equipment.
   (B)   It is declared a menace to the public safety and welfare and a public
nuisance if litter exists upon real property. No owner or tenant in control
shall permit litter to exist on his or her property unless:
      (1)   The property has been designated as an appropriate disposal site
for litter by applicable federal, state and local government entities;
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or other container intended by
the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
      (3)   The person is acting under the direction of proper officials during
special clean-up days; or
      (4)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency
situation where health and safety is threatened and removes and properly
disposes of the litter when the emergency situation no longer exists.
   (C)   No litter, garbage, filth, offal or refuse shall be thrown, dumped,
deposited, or permitted to fall, leak or spill from a motor vehicle.
   (D)   Any person causing the violation of this section, and the owner,
occupant or lessee of land on which any violation exists, are required to
correct the violation as set forth herein and subject enforcement as set forth
in §
92.99 of this chapter.
(2010 Code, § 96.21) (Ord. 13-05-04, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.13 of this chapter or fail to comply with any notice given by the authorized
village official as provided in §
92.13 of this chapter shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a fine as
set by the Board of Trustees from time to time for each violation. Each day
during which a violation continues beyond the specified time for correction
shall constitute a separate punishable offense.
      (2)   If the village corrects the violation itself or causes the
violation to be corrected on its behalf, a lien for the amount of time and
expense involved in correcting the violation shall be filed against the land
where the violation occurred unless the owner or occupant of that land shall
reimburse the village its expenses upon request. A minimum charge as set by the
Board of Trustees from time to time for each hour, or part of an hour, shall be
levied for work performed by or on behalf of the village in correcting a
violation. The lien shall be recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds within
60 days after the work is performed by the village or on behalf of the village,
and foreclosure suit to collect the cost of the lien shall be filed within two
years after the recordation of the lien as in the case of foreclosure.
      (3)   If the village corrects the violation itself or causes the
violation to be corrected on its behalf, the violator shall nevertheless be
subject to the above-specified fine, in addition to a lien being placed on the
violator’s property.
      (4)   See above provisions in §
92.09 of this chapter (and following) regarding liens for removal costs.
(2010 Code, § 94.99)
   (C)   Any person in violation of the terms of §§
92.25 through
92.30 of this chapter may be fined as set by the Board of Trustees from time to
time, for each offense. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
hereunder.
   (D)   (1)   Unless a greater or lesser penalty is prescribed elsewhere in
this code of ordinances, any person who shall violate any provisions of §§
92.45 through
92.49 of this chapter shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a fine as
set by the Board of Trustees from time to time for each violation. Each day
during which a violation continues beyond the specified time for correction
shall constitute a separate punishable offense.
      (2)   If the village corrects the violation or causes the violation to be
corrected on its behalf, the violator or shall be liable to the village for its
actual costs (material plus labor, or if the correction is contracted out, the
contract price) of abating the nuisance.
      (3)   Where the village itself corrects the violation or causes the
violation to be corrected on its behalf, the violator shall be subject to both
divisions (D)(1) and (D)(2) above.
(2010 Code, § 96.99)
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 6-7-2011)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Sale, use or explosion prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Violations; searches and seizures
   
93.04   Exemption
Fire Prevention
   
93.15   Fire prevention code adopted
   
93.16   Storage and use of volatile combustibles
Open Burning
   
93.30   Definitions
   
93.31   Prohibitions
   
93.32   Exemptions
   
93.33   Burning of leaves on public property prohibited
   
93.34   Permit required for burning on construction or demolition sites
   
93.35   Constant attention to open fires required
   
93.36   Garden hose or fire extinguishment devices required
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITION.
   FIREWORKS are any explosive composition, or any substance or combination of
substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or
audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion,
deflagration or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy cannons, in
which explosives are used, the type of balloons which require fire underneath
to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, bombs
or other fireworks of like construction and any fireworks containing any
explosive compound, or any tablets or other device containing any explosive
substance, or containing combustible substances producing visual effects:
provided, however, that, the term FIREWORKS shall not include snake or glow
worm pellets; smoke devices; trick noisemakers known as “party poppers”, “booby
traps”, “snappers”, “trick matches”, “cigarette loads” and “auto burglar
alarms”; sparklers; toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which
paper or plastic caps containing 0.25 grains or less of explosive compound are
used; providing, they are so constructed that the hand cannot come in contact
with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy pistol paper or plastic
caps which contain less than 0.20 grains of explosive mixture; the sale and use
of which shall be permitted at all times.
(2010 Code, § 93.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 425 ILCS 35/1
§ 93.02 SALE, USE OR EXPLOSION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   (A) (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm, co-partnership or corporation to knowingly possess, offer for
sale, expose for sale, sell at retail or use or explode any fireworks; provided
that, the President and Board of Trustees shall have power to grant permits for
supervised public displays of fireworks or grant permits for the sale of
fireworks if the seller has a valid permit for fireworks sales issued by the
state’s Fire Marshal. Every such display shall be handled by a competent
individual designated by the President and Board of Trustees and shall be of
such a character and so located, discharged or fired, as not to be hazardous to
property or endanger any person or persons.
      (2)   Application for permits shall be made in writing at least 15 days
in advance of the date of the display and action shall be taken on such
application within 48 hours after such application is made. After such
privilege shall have been granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of
fireworks for such display shall be lawful for that purpose only.
      (3)   No permit granted hereunder shall be transferable.
   (B)   Permits may be granted hereunder to any groups of three or more adult
individuals applying therefor. No permit shall be required, under the
provisions of this section, for supervised public displays by state or county
fair associations.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall require a bond from a licensee in the sum
as set by the Board of Trustees from time to time, conditioned on compliance
with the provisions of this section and the regulations of the state’s Fire
Marshal; however, the village shall not be required to file such bond.
   (D)   Such permit shall be issued only after inspection of the display site
by the Village President or other authorized village official, to determine
that such display shall not be hazardous to property or endanger any person or
persons. Forms for such application and permit may be obtained from the office
of the state’s Fire Marshal. One copy of such permit shall be on file with the
Village President, and one copy forwarded to the office of the state’s Fire
Marshal. The President shall consult with local fire protection authorities
before issuing such permit.
   (E)   Possession by any party holding a certificate of registration under
425 ILCS 3D/1 et seq., or by any employee or agent of such party or by any
person transporting fireworks for such party, shall not be a violation;
provided, such possession is within the scope of business of the fireworks
plant registered under those statutes.
(2010 Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 17-05-01, passed 5- -2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of village to regulate fireworks, see 425 ILCS 35/2
§ 93.03 VIOLATIONS; SEARCHES AND SEIZURES.
   (A)   Whenever the President or any member of the Board of Trustees has
reason to believe that any violation of this subchapter has occurred within the
village and that the person so violating this subchapter has in his or her
possession fireworks or combustibles, the President or the Trustee may file a
complaint in writing, verified by affidavit, with any circuit court within
whose jurisdiction the premises to be searched are situated, stating the facts
upon which such belief is founded, the premises to be searched and the property
to be seized and procure a search warrant and execute the same. Upon the
execution of such search warrant, the person executing the same shall make due
return thereof to the court issuing the same, together with an inventory of the
property taken thereunder. The court shall thereupon issue process against the
owner of such property if he or she be known, otherwise against the party in
whose possession the property so taken was found, if known.
   (B)   (1)   In case of inability to serve such process upon the owner or the
person in possession of the property at the time of its seizure, as
hereinbefore provided, notice of the proceedings before the court shall be
given as required by the statutes of the state governing cases of attachment.
      (2)   Upon the return of the process duly served or upon the posting or
publishing of notice made, as hereinabove provided, the court or jury, if a
jury shall be demanded, shall proceed to determine whether or not such property
so seized was held or possessed in violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   In case of a finding that the fireworks or combustibles seized were
possessed in violation of this subchapter, judgment shall be entered
confiscating and forfeiting the property and ordering its destruction.
(2010 Code, § 93.03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 425 ILCS 35/4
§ 93.04 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as applying to the
transportation of any article or thing shipped in conformity with the
regulations prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission, nor as applying
to the military or naval forces of the United States, nor to the duly
authorized militia of the state, nor to the use of signals necessary for the
safe operation of railroads, steamboats, trucks or aircraft.
(2010 Code, § 93.04)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 425 ILCS 30/23
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.15 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   All construction, operation and maintenance of buildings and structures in
the village shall conform with the applicable provision of the fire code or
fire prevention code adopted from time to time by the village and set forth in
this chapter.
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of codes by reference, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-3-1 and 1-3-
2 and ILCS Ch. 50, Act 220, § 2
§ 93.16 STORAGE AND USE OF VOLATILE COMBUSTIBLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association, or corporation to
keep, store, transport, sell, or use any crude petroleum, benzine, benzol,
gasoline, naphtha, ether or other like volatile combustibles, or other
compounds, in such manner or under such circumstances as will jeopardize life
or property.
(ILCS Ch. 430, Act 15, § 1)
Statutory reference:
   Power of village to regulate storage of combustible or explosive material,
see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-8-4
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL WASTES. Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated
on a farm or ranch by crop and livestock production practices, including such
items as bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials, and landscape
wastes.
   GARBAGE. Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation,
cooking, and consumption of food or food products.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage. The term
includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, yard trimmings, and crop residues.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products
of the combustion are emitted to the open air.
   RESTRICTED AREAS. The area within the boundaries of the village, unless said
area is 1,000 feet from residential or other populated areas.
§ 93.31 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall cause or allow open burning, except as provided in §
93.32 below.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow the burning of any refuse in any
chamber or apparatus, unless such chamber or apparatus is designed for the
purpose of disposing of the class of refuse being burned.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.32 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities are not in violation of this subchapter unless they
cause air pollution as defined in state statutes or regulations of the state
Environmental Protection Agency:
   (A)   The open burning of agricultural waste, but only:
      (1)   On the premises on which such waste is generated;
      (2)   In areas other than restricted areas;
      (3)   When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants;
      (4)   If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroad tracks or air fields;
      (5)   More than 1,000 feet from residential or other populated areas; and
      (6)   When it can be affirmatively demonstrated that no economically
reasonable alternative method of disposal is available.
   (B)   The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires, when
reasonably necessary in the judgment of the responsible government official.
   (C)   The burning of fuels for legitimate campfire, recreational, and
cooking purposes, or in domestic fireplaces, in areas where such burning is
consistent with other laws, provided that no garbage shall be burned in such
cases.
   (D)   The burning of waste gases provided that in the case of refineries all
such flares shall be equipped with smokeless tips or comparable devices to
reduce pollution.
   (E)   Small open flames for heating tar, for welding, acetylene torches,
highway safety flares, and the like.
   (F)   Burning of leaves.
      (1)   Outdoor leaf burning shall be allowed only in containers located
not less than 20 feet from any building or structure on private property only,
except that the village may conduct such outdoor leaf burning on publicly owned
property, which burning shall be supervised by an officer or employee of the
village and in compliance with the requirements set forth herein.
      (2)   Outdoor leaf burning shall include only leaves fallen from trees,
plants, and shrubs and shall not include burning of any trash, garbage, or
other disposables or any other materials of any nature whatsoever.
      (3)   Outdoor leaf burning which is permitted under this division may be
prohibited at any time when, in the opinion of the appropriate and proper
official of the village or of the state Environmental Protection Agency,
atmospheric conditions are such that open leaf burning would prove harmful to
the health of the citizens of the village.
§ 93.33 BURNING OF LEAVES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall burn leaves or any other material on a street, gutter, curb
or sidewalk owned by the village.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.34 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR BURNING ON CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION SITES.
   During the construction or demolition of buildings or other structures, no
waste materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on the premises or
in the immediate vicinity without a permit or other proper authorization.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.35 CONSTANT ATTENTION TO OPEN FIRES REQUIRED.
   Open fires shall be constantly attended by a competent person not less than
18 years of age.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36 GARDEN HOSE OR FIRE EXTINGUISHMENT DEVICES REQUIRED.
   A garden hose connected to a water supply or other fire extinguishment
equipment must be readily available for use within ten feet of any open fires.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not provided shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense.
Each day's violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of §§
93.30 through
93.36 shall be punishable by a fine as follows:
         (a)   First offense: $30;
         (b)   Second offense: $50;
         (c)   Third offense: $100; and
         (d)   Subsequent offenses: Not less than $100, nor more than $500.
      (2)   To avoid prosecution for a first, second, or third offense under §§
93.30 through
93.36, a violator may within ten days of receiving a citation settle the
citation by payment of one-half of the specified fine at the Village Hall. The
President of the Board of Trustees is hereby authorized and directed to cease
prosecution of any citation so settled.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
      
114.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Business sales tax
§ 110.01 BUSINESS SALES TAX.
   (A)   A tax is imposed upon all persons in the village engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail at the rate of 0.5% of
the gross receipts from the sales, in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS
5/8-11-1. Every person engaged in the business of selling tangible personal
property at retail shall file, on or before the twentieth day of each calendar
month, a report with the state’s Department of Revenue, as required by 35 ILCS
120/3. At the time of filing the report, the person shall pay to the state’s
Department of Revenue the amount of tax imposed on the receipts from sales of
tangible personal property during the preceding month.
   (B)   A tax is imposed upon all persons in the village engaged in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of 0.5% of the cost price of
all tangible personal property transferred by the service persons, either in
the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an
incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/
8- 11-5. Every supplier or service person required to account for municipal
service occupation tax for the benefit of the village shall file, on or before
the twentieth day of each calendar month, a report to the state’s Department of
Revenue as required by 35 ILCS 115/9. At the time of filing the report, the
person shall pay to the state’s Department of Revenue the amount of tax
imposed.
(2010 Code, § 174.01)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Local Commissioner
   
111.03   License required
   
111.04   Application for license
   
111.05   Restrictions on licensees
   
111.06   Record of licenses
   
111.07   Insurance requirements
   
111.08   Term of license; renewals; dishonored payment
   
111.09   Transfer of license
   
111.10   Classification and fees
   
111.11   Initial license applications; fees
   
111.12   Number of licenses issued
   
111.13   Incomplete applications
   
111.14   Disposition of fees
   
111.15   Conditions of license
Location, Building, and Premises Restrictions
   
111.30   Location restrictions
   
111.31   Sanitary conditions
   
111.32   View from street
   
111.33   Premises restrictions
   
111.34   Personnel restrictions
   
111.35   Prohibited acts and conditions
   
111.36   Sales to minors, drunkards and the like
   
111.37   Purchase or acceptance of gift by minors; identification cards
Violations
   
111.50   Violation of tax acts
   
111.51   Suspension and revocation; complaints and hearings
   
111.52   Forfeiture of fees
   
111.53   Use of premises after revocation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases used in this chapter and not otherwise defined herein,
which are defined in the Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., as
amended, shall have the meaning accorded to the words and phrases in that Act.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms as used in this
chapter shall be construed according to the definitions set forth below.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.01)
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of
this chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured
alcohol produced in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations
promulgated thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing 0.5% or less of
alcohol by volume.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.05)
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt, and hops in water, and includes
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.04)
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building of an extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided that the club files with the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner at the time of its application for a license under this chapter
two copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and similarly
files within ten days of the election of any additional member his or her name
and address; and, provided further, that its affairs and management are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen
by the members at their annual meeting and that no member or any officer, agent
or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives in the form
of salary or other compensation, any profits from the distribution or sale of
alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of the club or its guests
introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and
voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or
other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.24)
   HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which 25 or more
rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or
more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests, such sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or
buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings, structure or
structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity. All public dining rooms, banquet rooms, meeting rooms,
room service areas, mini-bars and other locations within or adjacent to a hotel
in which alcoholic liquors are stored, offered for sale or sold at retail shall
be considered part of the hotel’s licensed premises if those locations within
or adjacent to the hotel are owned and managed by the hotel operator. As part
of the hotel’s licensed premises, each and all of those locations within or
adjacent to the hotel shall be maintained and managed pursuant to a single
retailer’s license issued by the State Commission to the hotel operator,
regardless of the number of local retailer licenses mandated by the local unit
of government having jurisdiction over the hotel. Public dining rooms and other
locations within or adjacent to a hotel that are owned or managed by a person
other than the hotel operator and are licensed by the local unit of government
having jurisdiction over the hotel to a person other than the hotel operator
are not considered part of the hotel’s licensed premises for purposes of the
Liquor Control Act and, as such, must be maintained and operated under separate
retailer’s licenses.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.25)
   LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. The state Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et
seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   LOCAL COMMISSIONER. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner as defined by the
Liquor Control Act.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held
out to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are
actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, the space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its guests.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.23)
   RETAILER. A person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.17)
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and through the
transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or certificates, and includes and
means all sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent,
servant or employee. The term SALE includes any transfer of alcoholic liquor
from a foreign importer’s license to an importing distributor’s license even if
both licenses are held by the same person.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.21)
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Refers to and means sales for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.18)
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.02)
   STATE COMMISSION. The Illinois Liquor Control Commission.
   TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to
sell.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.22)
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, vegetables, or honey, containing sugar, including mead and
such beverages when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as above
defined.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.03)
§ 111.02 LOCAL COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Designation. The Village President is hereby designated as the Local
Commissioner and shall be charged with the administration of the Liquor Control
Act and of ordinances and resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may be
enacted. The President may appoint a person or persons to assist in the
exercise of the powers and the performance of the duties provided for in
division (B).
   (B)   Powers, duties and functions. The Local Commissioner shall have all
the powers, functions and duties with respect to local liquor licenses granted
by the Liquor Control Act, including:
      (1)   To grant and/or suspend for not more than 30 days or revoke for
cause all local licenses issued to persons or entities for premises within the
Commissioner’s jurisdiction, and to impose fines as set forth herein.
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter, at
any time, upon the premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of the Liquor Control Act or this chapter, or any rules or
regulations adopted by the Local Commissioner or by the state commission, have
been or are being violated, and at such time to examine the premises of the
licensee in connection therewith.
      (3)   To receive complaints from any citizen with the Local
Commissioner’s jurisdiction that any of the provisions of the Liquor Control
Act or of this chapter have been or are being violated, and to act upon these
complaints in the manner provided by law.
      (4)   To receive local license fees and pay same to the Village
Treasurer.
      (5)   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for
a local license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation or suspension has been served, or any licensee against whom a
citation proceeding has been instituted by the state Liquor Control Commission;
to examine, or cause to be examined, the books and records of any applicant or
licensee or respondent; and to hear testimony and take proof for information in
the performance of the Local Commissioner’s duties; and for these purposes, to
issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this state. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the Local Commissioner
under this section, the Commissioner may authorize his or her agent to act on
his or her behalf.
      (6)   To order, upon the issuance of a written order, the licensed
premises closed for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an
opportunity to be heard during that period, if the Local Commissioner has
reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular licensed
premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the community; except that if
the licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business or
businesses on the licensed premises, the order shall not be applicable to the
other business or businesses.
      (7)   If the village permits club licenses, to notify the Secretary of
State where a club incorporated under the General Not for Profit Corporation
Act or a foreign corporation functioning as a club in this state under a
certificate of authority issued under that Act has violated the Liquor Control
Act by selling or offering for sale at retail alcoholic liquors without a
retailer’s license.
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of Local Commissioners, see 235 ILCS 5/4-2, 4-4 and 4-5
§ 111.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the village any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer’s license, or in
violation of the terms of the license.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Applications for these licenses shall be made to the Local
Commissioner, or the Village Clerk operating in the Commissioner’s behalf, in
writing, signed by the applicant if an individual, or by a duly authorized
agent thereof if a club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and
shall contain the following statements and information:
      (1)   The full name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation, the objects for which
organized, the names, addresses, date of birth and place of birth of the
officers, directors, all persons owning directly or beneficially more than 5%
of the stock of the corporation, and the persons acting as managers or
assistant managers of the premises;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, the applicant’s date and place of
birth, and, if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant;
      (4)   The length of time the applicant has been in business of that
character or, in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was
issued;
      (5)   The amounts of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made;
      (6)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under the license.
         (a)   If a leased premises, a copy of the lease shall be provided as
required and shall be for a term of sufficient length to encompass the period
of the license sought.
         (b)   The name and address of the owner or owners of the premises and
the names and addresses of all the owners of the beneficial interest of any
trust if the premises is held in trust;
      (7)   A statement whether the applicant has made application for a
similar or other license on premises other than described in this application,
and the disposition of the application;
      (8)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws for this state, or the ordinances of this
village;
      (9)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or
by the federal government, has been issued, and, if so, where and when, or if
any such license has been revoked the reasons therefor;
      (10)   The date of incorporation, if an Illinois corporation, or the date
of becoming qualified under the Illinois Business Corporation Act, being 805
ILCS 5/1.01 et seq. to transact business of Illinois if a foreign corporation;
and
      (11)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
this state or of the United States, or any ordinance of the village in the
conduct of his or her place of business.
   (B)   All managers and assistant managers for all types of licensed
businesses must file applications pursuant to this section as if they were
applicants for individual licenses, must meet all pertinent licensing
requirements of this chapter, and must be approved by the Local Commissioner.
The application, approval and qualification requirements for managers and
assistant managers shall be conditions attached to the license of the business
employing them, and any violations of those requirements can result in license
penalties for the employing business, including suspension, revocation or
fines.
   (C)   (1)   The Local Commissioner may, in the exercise of his or her
discretion, require any applicant for a new village liquor license, or any
applicant for a renewal of a village liquor license, to be fingerprinted
whether the applicant be an individual or a partnership. Should the applicant
be a corporation, the Local Commissioner may, within his or her discretion,
require the following to be fingerprinted:
         (a)   The officers, manager or director of the corporation; or
         (b)   Any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more
than 5% of the capital stock of the corporation.
      (2)   All fingerprinting shall be done by the Police Department.
Fingerprints shall be submitted to the appropriate state and federal agencies
for processing as available. The cost of fingerprinting shall be paid by the
applicant.
   (D)   The Local Commissioner shall issue a written acceptance or rejection
of an application within 60 days of its receipt by the Commissioner or Clerk in
his or her behalf; or shall notify an applicant of the reasons for further time
being necessary to complete the investigation or processing; or shall schedule
a hearing on the application as allowed by 235 ILCS 5/7-9.
Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   License applications, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1, 4-7, and 7-1
§ 111.05 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSEES.
   (A)   The fact that an applicant has been convicted of or has been placed on
supervision for a drug or alcohol-related offense or suspension of a liquor
license in any other jurisdiction shall be considered in the review of an
application for any license or renewal thereof, and may be the basis for the
denial of the license or renewal of any license hereunder. For purposes of this
chapter, ALCOHOL-RELATED OFFENSE includes driving while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor, and any offenses involving the possession, transfer or
consumption of alcohol.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C), no liquor license shall
be issued to:
      (1)   An individual person who is not a resident of the village;
      (2)   An individual person who is not of good character and reputation in
the community in which the person resides, or is an habitual user of alcohol,
drugs, narcotics, marijuana or controlled substances;
      (3)   An individual person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   An individual person who has been convicted of a felony under
federal or state law;
      (5)   An individual person who has been convicted of being the keeper or
is keeping a house of ill fame;
      (6)   An individual person who has been convicted of pandering or other
crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
      (7)   An individual person whose license under this chapter or under the
Liquor Control Act has been revoked for cause;
      (8)   An individual person who at the time of application for renewal of
any license issued hereunder would not be eligible for the license upon a first
application;
      (9)   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate limited partner
interest in the copartnership, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than residence;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of the corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than United States citizenship and residence within the
village;
      (11)   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in this state, or unless
it is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Business Corporation
Act to transact business in this state;
      (12)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
by the licensee, and is a resident or becomes a resident of the village within
one year of adoption of this code of ordinances;
      (13)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
or who shall have forfeited a bond to appear in court to answer charges for any
violation;
      (14)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is issued;
      (15)   Any law enforcing village public official, officer or employee or
member of any village board or commission; and no official shall be interested
in any way, either directly or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor;
      (16)   Any person, firm or corporation not eligible for a state retail
liquor dealer’s license;
      (17)   Any applicant who fails to obtain a state liquor license;
      (18)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee;
      (19)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as
proscribed by 720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(12), 28-1.1 or 28-3, or as
proscribed by a statute replacing any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
      (20)   Federal gaming device or wagering stamps; or
      (21)   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been
issued by the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be
issued a license under 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq. or 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
   (C)   A criminal conviction of a corporation is not grounds for the denial,
suspension or revocation of a license applied for or held by the corporation if
the criminal conviction was not the result of a violation of any federal, state
or local law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic
liquor, the offense that led to the conviction did not result in any financial
gain to the corporation and the corporation has terminated its relationship
with each director, employee or controlling shareholder whose actions directly
contributed to the conviction of the corporation. The State Commission shall
determine if all provisions of this division (C) have been met before any
action on the corporation’s license is initiated.
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on state licensees, see 235 ILCS 5/6-2
§ 111.06 RECORD OF LICENSES.
   The Village Clerk shall keep a complete record of all licenses issued and
shall furnish the Chief of Police with a copy thereof. Upon revocation or
suspension of any license, the Village Clerk shall immediately give written
notice thereof to the Chief.
§ 111.07 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   No license shall be granted to an applicant until the applicant shall
furnish evidence satisfactory to the Local Commissioner that the applicant is
covered by a policy of dram shop insurance issued by a responsible insurance
company authorized and licensed to do business in the state insuring the
applicant against liability which the applicant may incur under the provisions
of 235 ILCS 5/6-21 and specifically designating the village as an additional
insured. The evidence of the insurance policy shall indicate that the term of
the insurance is of sufficient length to encompass the period of the license
sought.
Statutory reference:
   Insurance requirements, see 235 ILCS 5/6-21 et seq.
§ 111.08 TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWALS; DISHONORED PAYMENT.
   (A)   Each license issued hereunder shall terminate on April 30 following
the issuance thereof. Any licensee may renew its license at the expiration
thereof, provided that it is then qualified to receive a license, and the
premises for which the renewal license is sought are suitable for the purpose,
and provided further that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not
be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the Board of
Trustees from decreasing or limiting the number of classes of licenses to be
issued within the village.
   (B)   A negotiable instrument received as payment for a license fee,
transfer fee, late fee, offer in compromise, pre-disciplinary conference
settlement or fine imposed by order that is dishonored on presentation shall
not be considered payment and shall be cause for disciplinary action.
(235 ILCS 5/6-1)
Statutory reference:
   License term; renewal, see 235 ILCS 5/6-1 et seq.
§ 111.09 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall be a purely personal privilege, effective for a period
not to exceed one year after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this chapter
provided, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. A
license shall cease upon the death of the licensee and shall not descend by the
laws of testate or intestate devolution, provided that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when an estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor under the
order of the appropriate court and may exercise the privileges of the deceased
or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of the decedent, or
insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of the license, but not longer
than six months after the death, bankruptcy insolvency of the licensee.
   (B)   A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fees paid for
any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under the
license in accordance with this section.
Statutory reference:
   License transfers, see 235 ILCS 5/6-1
§ 111.10 CLASSIFICATION AND FEES.
   (A)   A license shall be a purely personal privilege, effective for a period
not to exceed one year after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this chapter
provided, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. A
license shall cease upon the death of the licensee and shall not descend by the
laws of testate or intestate devolution, provided that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when an estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor under the
order of the appropriate court and may exercise the privileges of the deceased
or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of the decedent, or
insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of the license, but not longer
than six months after the death, bankruptcy insolvency of the licensee.
   (B)   Class B license. Authorizes a club to sell alcoholic beverages or
liquor for consumption only on the premises and the sale of alcoholic beverages
shall be confined substantially to the members of the club. The annual fee for
a Class B license shall be as set by the Board of Trustees from time to time
per year. The limit of Class B licenses shall be one. The hours the club may
sell alcoholic beverages shall be as follows: Sunday, 9:00 a.m. until 11:00
p.m.; and on any three weekdays, per week, from 5:00 p.m. until 11:00 p.m.
   (C)   Class E license. Authorizes the holder to sell beer, wine and liquor
in packages for consumption off the premises where the sale is made. The annual
fee for a Class E license shall be as set by the Board of Trustees from time to
time. The limit of Class E licenses shall be one. A Class E license holder may
sell alcoholic beverages only: on Monday through Saturday from the hours of 6:
00 a.m. until 12:00 midnight; and on Sunday from 12:00 noon until 12:00
midnight.
   (D)   Class F license. The local Liquor Commissioner may, in his or her
discretion, upon proper application being made and upon payment of $50.00,
grant a Class F license for a temporary sale of beer, wine, and pre-mixed
beverage to any person lawfully permitted to purchase and consume alcohol for a
specific event, not for use as a regularly established business, for use on
privately- owned premises, or publicly-owned premises with written
authorization of the public body having charge of such premises, for a certain
designated period of time not to exceed seven days. The granting and issuance
of a Class F liquor license shall in no way relieve the licensee from any
requirements imposed by state law, including but not limited to obtaining a
special event retailer's liquor license (not-for-profit) or a special use
permit liquor license from the Illinois Liquor Control Commission.
   (E)   Sub-Class One license. A supplemental license may be obtained by a
current holder of a liquor license within the village which shall permit the
retail sale of alcoholic beverages in an outdoor beer garden or café adjacent
to the licensed premises. The fee for each supplemental license issued shall be
as set by the Board of Trustees from time to time. The limit of Sub-Class One
licenses shall be two.
   (F)   Sub-Class Two license. A supplemental license may be obtained by a
current holder of a village liquor license who also holds a license or permit
issued by the state’s Gaming Board for devices at the liquor-licensed premises
pursuant to the state’s Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., which Sub-
Class Two license shall permit the operation of the Village-licensed premises
for video-gaming. The Sub-Class Two license shall issue automatically upon the
payment of the as set by the Board of Trustees from time to time per device
annual fee authorized by the said Video Gaming Act and the furnishing to the
village of a copy of the Video Gaming Act license issue by the state for the
village-licensed premises for the time period covered by primary village liquor
license.
(2010 Code, § 111.10) (Ord. 14-07-01, passed 7-1-2014; Ord. 18-04-03, passed 4-
17-2018; Ord. 2021-06-01, passed 6-1-2021; Ord. 2021-06-02, passed 6-1-2021;
Ord. 21-08-02, passed 8-3-2021; Ord. 22-10-01, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 111.11 INITIAL LICENSE APPLICATIONS; FEES.
   (A)   The first and initial license fee for new licenses issued between May
1 and October 31 of any year shall be in an amount equal to the annual fee
described in §
111.10 plus a nonrefundable fee as set forth by the Board of Trustees from time
to time, to defray the costs of investigation of the applicant as provided for
and pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, payable in one installment. The
first and initial license fee for new licenses issued between November 1 and
April 30 for any year shall be in an amount equal to one-half the annual fee
plus the nonrefundable fee to defray costs of investigation of applicant as
provided for and pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, payable in one
installment.
   (B)   Any sale, transfer assignment of more than 50% of the shares of a
corporation shall terminate the license for the purpose of payment of a fee for
a first and initial license.
   (C)   Any bankruptcy, insolvency of a license any sale, transfer assignment
of any copartner or copartnership or copartnership interests in a license held
by a copartnership shall terminate the license for the purpose of payment of a
fee for a first and initial license.
§ 111.12 NUMBER OF LICENSES ISSUED.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall be designated by the classification as
set forth by the Board of Trustees. There shall be a number of licenses as may
be from time to time determined by the Board of Trustees. There may be in force
at any time no more than that amount as set forth in by the Board of Trustees.
§ 111.13 INCOMPLETE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for liquor licenses which are incomplete or fail to
contain the statements or information required by §
111.04 shall be rejected by the Local Commissioner. The Commissioner shall
issue a written rejection of the application setting forth the deficiencies in
the application within 60 days of its receipt by the Commissioner or by the
Village Clerk. Prior to this rejection, the applicant may submit the additional
information or statements required to complete the application in accordance
with §
111.04.
   (B)   Administrative or legal expenses incurred in reviewing incomplete
liquor license applications, advising the applicant of the deficiencies, and
rejecting the applications shall be paid by the applicant. A bill or invoice
shall be submitted to the applicant specifying the additional administrative or
legal expenses incurred in processing the applicant’s incomplete liquor license
application, which shall be paid by the applicant together with the annual
license fee prior to the issuance of the liquor license.
§ 111.14 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All these fees shall be paid to the Village Treasurer at the time
application is made. Although the license is payable at the time of making
application for license, the Local Commissioner may divide the annual license
fee into two payments, each payable semiannually. In the event the license
applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant, except for
the nonrefundable fee set forth in §
111.11. If the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited as set forth
above, and no portion thereof shall be refunded, except as set forth in §
111.09.
§ 111.15 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Closing hours. Closing hours shall be as set forth by the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Election days. Licensees may sell at retail any alcoholic liquor on
the day of any national, state, county village election, including primary
elections, during the hours the polls are open, within the political area in
which the election is being held.
   (C)   Refilling original packages. No person licensed under this chapter
shall fill or refill, in whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic
liquor with the same or any other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor; and it
shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession for sale at
retail any bottles, casks other containers containing alcoholic liquor, unless
in original packages, except vinous beverages and pitchers of beer as permitted
elsewhere herein.
   (D)   Quantity sales for on-premises consumption. It shall be unlawful for
any licensee to sell, give away or permit to be sold, served or given away for
consumption on the licensed premises any distilled spirits, except by the
glass, in individual servings not exceeding three fluid ounces.
   (E)   Displaying license. Every licensee shall cause the license or licenses
to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises.
Penalty, see §
111.99
LOCATION, BUILDING AND PREMISES RESTRICTIONS
§ 111.30 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for the aged or
indigent persons, or for veterans, their wives or children, or any military or
naval station; provided that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels
offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs restaurants or other
places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business
carried on, if the place of business or use so exempted is established for
these purposes prior to the establishment of any such church, school, home for
the aged or indigent persons, or for veterans, their wives or children, or any
military or naval station, nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at
retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within 100 feet of any church or school,
where the church or school has been established within the 100 feet since the
issuance of the original license. In the case of a church, the distance of 100
feet shall be measured to the nearest part of any building used for worship
services or educational programs and not to property boundaries.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to a
church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor, if any such sales
are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the
promotion of some common object other than sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquor.
   (C)   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale of any alcoholic
liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of customers
are minors of school age, or where the principal business transacted consists
of school books, school supplies, food, lunches drinks for the minors.
   (D)   A license issued hereunder shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor
only in the premises described in the application and license. The location may
be changed only when and upon the written permit to make the change shall be
issued by the Local Commissioner. No change of location shall be permitted
unless the proposed new location is in compliance with the provisions and
regulations of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.31 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the
storage of the liquor for sale, shall be kept in full compliance with any and
all village ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for the
storage or sale of food for human consumption.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32 VIEW FROM STREET.
   (A)   In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises is licensed (other than as a restaurant, hotel, recreational
facility club) no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article thing shall be
permitted in the windows or upon the doors of the licensed premises nor inside
the premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of the
licensed premises from the street, road sidewalk at all times. No booth,
screen, partition other obstruction nor any arrangement of lights or lighting
shall be permitted in or about the interior of the premises which shall prevent
a clear view of the entire interior from the street, road sidewalk. All rooms
where liquor is sold for consumption on the premises shall be continuously
lighted during business hours by natural light or artificial white light so
that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly visible.
   (B)   In case the view into any the licensed premises required by the
foregoing provisions shall be willfully obscured by the licensee, or be
permitted to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then the license shall be
subject to revocation in the manner herein provided. In order to enforce the
provisions of this section, the Village President shall have the right to
require the filing of plans, drawings and photographs showing the clearance of
the view as above required.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.33 PREMISES RESTRICTIONS.
   No licensed premises shall be operated or occupied in violation of any
building, fire, health safety code, rule, regulation, occupancy capacity
limitation established or adopted by the village, the state, or if applicable,
the Fire Protection District for the village.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.34 PERSONNEL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Change in personnel.
      (1)   Any changes in partnerships, officers, directors, persons holding
directly or beneficially more than 5% of the stock or ownership interest,
managers or assistant managers of establishments licensed under this chapter
shall be reported in writing to the Local Commissioner within ten days of the
change. All new personnel shall meet all the standards of this chapter and must
otherwise qualify to hold a liquor license. All these changes in personnel
shall be subject to review by the Local Commissioner.
      (2)   When a license has been issued to a partnership and a change of
ownership occurs resulting in a partnership interest by one who is not eligible
to hold a liquor license, the license shall terminate.
      (3)   When a license has been issued to a corporation, and a change takes
place in officers, directors, managers shareholders of more than 5% of the
stock, resulting in the holding of office or the shares of stock by one who is
not eligible for a license, the license shall terminate.
      (4)   When a license has been issued to an individual who is no longer
eligible for a license, the license shall terminate.
   (B)   Employees. It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a
carrier of, any contagious, infectious venereal disease; and it shall be
unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or is a carrier of any such
disease to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the
handling, preparation distribution of the liquor. No employee, agent manager,
while on duty within the premises, shall use or consume any illegal drugs or
alcoholic liquor, or be under the influence of illegal drugs or alcoholic
liquor.
   (C)   Supervision. A licensee which operates with a manager or assistant
manager shall have on duty at all times the manager or assistant manager when
the license is in effect.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.35 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Peddling. It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
village.
   (B)   Gambling. It shall be unlawful to permit any gambling on any premises
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   Solicitation. It shall be unlawful for any licensee, manager other
person in charge of any licensed premises where alcoholic liquor is sold or
offered for sale for consumption thereon to engage, employ permit the
engagement or employment of any person, nor shall any person be permitted to
remain on the premises who shall solicit any patron or customer thereof to
purchase alcoholic or nonalcoholic liquor or sexual favors or services for
herself, himself any other person; nor shall any person, whether employer,
entertainer otherwise, solicit any patron or customer therein to purchase
alcoholic or nonalcoholic liquor for herself, himself any other person therein.
However, nothing herein contained shall prohibit any adult manager, waitress
waiter who shall be regularly employed therein from accepting and serving the
order of a patron or customer in the regular course of employment as the
manager, waitress waiter.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.36 SALES TO MINORS, DRUNKARDS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No licensee or officer, associate, member, representative, agent
employee of the licensee shall sell, give deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person, or to any
person known to be an habitual drunkard, insane, mentally ill, mentally
deficient in need of mental treatment. No person, after purchasing or otherwise
obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give deliver alcoholic liquor to
another person under the age of 21 years except in the performance of a
religious ceremony or service. It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of 21 years to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or
obtaining alcoholic liquor in any place in the village where alcoholic liquor
is sold.
   (B)   In every place in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold, there
shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card which shall
be supplied by the Village Clerk and which shall read substantially as follows:
“WARNING TO PERSONS
UNDER THE AGE OF 21 YEARS
You are subject to a fine of up to $500.00
under the ordinances of the Village of             
if you purchase or attempt to purchase
alcoholic liquor misrepresent your age
for the purpose of purchasing or
obtaining alcoholic liquor.”
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a liquor license, or his or her
agent or employee, to suffer or permit any person under the age of 21 to be or
remain in any room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the
room or place where the licensed premises is located; provided that this shall
not apply to any person under the age of 21 who is accompanied by a parent or
guardian, or to that portion of any licensed premises which derives its
principal business from the sale of service or commodities other than alcoholic
liquor. In addition to all other fines and penalties, the Local Commissioner
may suspend or revoke the liquor dealer’s license for any violation of this
division.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit
any person of which he or she is the parent or guardian to violate any
provisions of this section.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to sell, give deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to draw,
pour mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail premises, and it shall be
unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to dispense, sell deliver any
alcoholic liquor in the original package, bottle case for consumption off the
premises of any licensed establishment. Except for the prohibitions provided
for in this section, it shall be lawful for any person 18 years of age or older
to work in a licensed premises, and to serve alcoholic liquor.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.37 PURCHASE OR ACCEPTANCE OF GIFT BY MINORS; IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   Purchase or possession of alcoholic liquor by person under 21 years of
age.
      (1)   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of alcoholic liquor
is prohibited because of age shall not purchase or attempt to purchase or
accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or have alcoholic liquor in his or her
possession.
      (2)   If a licensee or the licensee’s agent or employee believes, has
reason to believe should have reason to believe that a sale or delivery of
alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the age of the prospective recipient,
the licensee, agent employee shall, before making the sale or delivery, demand
presentation of some form of positive identification (containing proof of age)
issued by a public officer in the performance of his or her official duties.
Reasonable care in compliance with the provisions of this division shall be
competent evidence and may be considered in prosecution, revocation suspension
for the violation of any section of this chapter relating to revocation or
suspension for the violation of any other provision of this chapter.
      (3)   No person shall transfer, alter deface such an identification card,
use the identification card of another, carry or use a false or forged
identification card, or obtain an identification card by means of false
information. No person shall purchase, accept delivery have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this section.
      (4)   The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under the age of
21 years is forbidden.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the possession
and dispensing, or consumption by a person under the age of 21 years of
alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony or under
the direct supervision and approval of the parents or parent of the underage
person in the privacy of a home.
Penalty, see §
111.99
VIOLATIONS
§ 111.50 VIOLATION OF TAX ACTS.
   (A)   In addition to other grounds specified in this chapter, the Local
Commissioner, upon the complaint of the State Department of Revenue, may refuse
the issuance or renewal of a retail license, or suspend or revoke the license,
for any of the following violations of any tax act administered by the state
department:
      (1)   Failure to make a tax return;
      (2)   The filing of a fraudulent return;
      (3)   Failure to pay all or part of any tax or penalty finally determined
to be due;
      (4)   Failure to keep books and records;
      (5)   Failure to secure and display a certificate or subcertificates of
registration; or
      (6)   Willful violation of any rule or regulation of the State Department
of Revenue relating to the administration and enforcement of tax liability.
   (B)   Upon receiving notice from the State Department that a violation of
any items of division (A)(1) through (6) have been corrected or otherwise
resolved to the state department’s satisfaction, the Local Commissioner may
vacate an order of revocation.
(235 ILCS 5/6-3)
§ 111.51 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION; COMPLAINTS AND HEARING.
   (A)   The Local Commissioner may, in accordance with the Liquor Control Act,
revoke or suspend any license issued by him or her, if he or she determines
that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Act or of any
ordinance or resolution enacted by the Board of Trustees of the village or any
applicable rule or regulation established by the Local Commissioner or the
state commission which is not inconsistent with law.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the suspension or revocation, licensees may be
fined as set forth in §
111.99. License suspension and revocation proceedings shall be conducted
pursuant to 235 ILCS 5/7-5.
      (2)   Review of the Local Commissioner’s decision shall be as set forth
in 235 ILCS 5/7-9.
   (C)   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Local Commissioner stating that any retailer licensee
subject to the jurisdiction of the Local Commissioner has been or is violating
the provisions of this chapter or the Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant thereto. The complaint shall be in writing in the
form prescribed by the Local Commissioner and shall be signed and sworn to by
the parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision,
rule regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon
which belief is based. If the Local Commissioner is satisfied that the
complaint substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged
there is reasonable cause for the belief, he or she shall set the matter for
hearing and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of the
hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint.
(235 ILCS 5/7-7)
Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   For revocation and suspension provisions under state law, see 235 ILCS 5/7-5
§ 111.52 FORFEITURE OF FEES.
   Whenever any license hereunder has been revoked as provided for in this
chapter, the licensee shall incur a forfeiture of all moneys that have been
paid for the license.
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of fees, see 235 ILCS 5/7-12
§ 111.53 USE OF PREMISES AFTER REVOCATION.
   (A)   When a license has been revoked for any cause, no license shall be
granted to any person for a period of one year thereafter for the conduct of
the business of manufacturing, distributing selling alcoholic liquor in the
premises described in the revoked license, unless the revocation order has been
vacated or unless the revocation order was entered as to the licensee only.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a retail
license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor incidental to a restaurant if:
      (1)   The primary business of the restaurant consists of the sale of food
where the sale of liquor is incidental to the sale of food and the applicant is
a completely new owner of the restaurant;
      (2)   The immediately prior owner or operator of the premises where the
restaurant is located operated the premises as a restaurant and held a valid
retail license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor at the restaurant for
at least part of the 24 months before the change of ownership; and
      (3)   The restaurant is located 75 or more feet from a school.
(235 ILCS 5/7-13)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person other than a licensee violating any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   A licensee violating any provision of this chapter may be fined by the
Local Commissioner in addition to suspension or revocation. The fine shall not
exceed $1,000 for a first violation within a 12- month period, $1,500 for a
second violation within a 12-month period, and $2,500 for a third or subsequent
violation within a 12-month period. Each day on which the violation occurs
shall constitute a separate violation. Not more than $15,000 in fines under
this section may be imposed against any licensee during the period of the
licensee’s license.
   (C)   Proceeds of fines imposed by the Local Commissioner shall be paid into
the village treasury.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-5
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Loud noises and speaking devices
   
112.03   Use of streets
   
112.04   Enforcement
   
112.05   Itinerant merchants
   
112.06   Village policy on soliciting
   
112.07   Notice regulating soliciting
   
112.08   Duty of solicitors
   
112.09   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
112.10   Time limit on soliciting
Licensing Procedures
   
112.25   License requirement
   
112.26   Application; procedure
   
112.27   Investigation and issuance
   
112.28   Fees
   
112.29   Revocation procedure
   
112.30   Standards for revocation
   
112.31   Appeal procedure
   
112.32   Transfer
Mobile Food Truck Vendors
   
112.45   Permit required
   
112.46   Permit fees
   
112.47   Operation on private property
   
112.48   Hours of operation
   
112.49   Sales tax
   
112.50   Conditions on operation
   
112.51   Denial of permit
   
112.52   Revocation of license
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Business sales tax, see §
110.01
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Ch. 92
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
Statutory reference:
   Authority of village to license, tax, regulate or prohibit peddlers,
itinerant merchants or transient vendors, see 65 ILCS 5/11-42-5
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the village and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the village. Mobile food truck vendors, as defined by this
section, are exempt from the definition of ITINERANT MERCHANT and are not
subject to the licensing procedures as laid out in §§
112.45 through
112.52 of this chapter.
   MOBILE FOOD TRUCK VENDOR. The operator or proprietor of a motorized vehicle
intended or designed for the cooking or preparation of hot and cold ready-to-
eat food, prepackaged foods and drink for sale or distribution on a temporary
basis at locations that may change from time to time. Ice cream trucks are
exempt from the definition of MOBILE FOOD TRUCK VENDOR.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the village.
   SOLICITOR.
      (1)   Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking or
attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future.
      (2)   A person who is a SOLICITOR is not a peddler.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017; Ord. 21-06-06, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 112.02 LOUD NOISES AND SPEAKING DEVICES.
   No peddler, itinerant merchant or solicitor, nor any person in his or her
behalf, shall shout, make any cryout, blow a horn, ring a bell or use any sound
device, including any loud speaking radio or sound amplifying system upon any
of the streets, alleys, parks or other public places of the village or upon any
private premises in the village where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or
produced which is capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues,
alleys, parks or other public places, for the purpose of attracting attention
to any goods, wares or merchandise which the licensee proposes to sell.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   No peddler, itinerant merchant or solicitor shall have any exclusive
right to any location in the public streets, nor shall any be permitted a
stationary location, nor shall any be permitted to operate in any congested
area where the operations might impede or inconvenience the public.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the judgment of a police officer,
exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is
congested or the public impeded or inconvenienced.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of any police officer of the village to require any
person seen peddling, and who is not known by the officer to be duly licensed,
to produce his or her license and to enforce the provisions of this chapter
against any person found to be violating it. The Chief of Police shall report
to the Clerk all convictions for violation of this chapter and the Clerk shall
maintain a record for each license issued and record the reports of violation.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017)
§ 112.05 ITINERANT MERCHANTS.
   In addition to the above provisions or, if contradictory to any above
provisions, in replacement of those contradictory provisions, itinerant
merchants shall abide by the following.
   (A)   Application. Upon application for a license as an itinerant merchant,
the applicant shall file a written sworn application with the Clerk signed by
the applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership and by the
president if a corporation.
   (B)   Bond. Before any license shall be issued for engaging in a transient
or itinerant business in the village, the applicant shall file with the Clerk a
bond in favor of the village in the sum as set by the Board of Trustees from
time to time, executed by the applicant as principal and two sureties upon
which service of process may be made in the state. The bond shall be approved
by the Village Attorney, both as to form and as to the responsibility of the
sureties, and shall be conditioned upon the applicant’s full compliance with
all of the provisions of this code and the statutes of the state regulating and
concerning the sale of goods, wares and merchandise. The bond shall provide
payment for all judgments rendered against the applicant for any violation of
the provisions or statutes, or any of them, together with all judgments and
costs that may be recovered against the applicant by any person for damage
arising out of any misrepresentation or deception practiced on any person
transacting business with the applicant, whether the misrepresentations or
deceptions were made or practiced by the owners or by their servants, agents or
employees, either at the time of making the sale or through any advertisement
of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated with reference to the goods,
wares and merchandise sold. Action on the bond may be brought in the name of
the village to the use of the aggrieved person.
   (C)   Service of process. Before any license shall be issued for engaging in
the business of an itinerant merchant, the applicant shall file with the Clerk
an instrument nominating and appointing the Clerk, or the person performing the
duties of the Clerk, his or her true and lawful agent with full power and
authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for and on behalf of the
applicant with respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the
business transacted under the license and bond under this section or for the
performance of the conditions of the bond or for any breach of the bond. This
instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that the applicant for the
license consents and agrees that service of any notice or process may be made
upon the agent, and when made upon the agent, shall be held to be valid as if
personally served upon the applicant, according to the law of this or any other
state. The applicant shall waive all claim or right of error by reason of the
acknowledgment of service or manner of service. Immediately upon service of
process upon the Clerk as provided above, the Clerk shall send by registered
mail a copy of the process to the licensee at his or her last known address.
   (D)   Exhibition of license.
      (1)   The license issued under this section shall be posted conspicuously
in the named place of business.
      (2)   In the event the person or persons applying for the license shall
desire to do business in more than one place within the village, separate
licenses may be issued for each place of business and shall be conspicuously
posted in each place.
   (E)   Fees. Licensees under this section shall pay a fee of 1% of the gross
amount of sales conducted by the licensee. Each licensee shall, on the first
business day of each week, and upon discontinuance of business in the village,
present to the Clerk a verified statement showing the total sales made during
the preceding week and shall pay to the Clerk the license fee for sales made
during the previous week. A police officer shall have power and authority to
enter any store, building or any other place in which a temporary business may
be conducted, at any time during business hours, to ascertain the amount of
sales made and shall, at all times, have access to the books of the business.
   (F)   Transfer. No license shall be transferred without written consent of
the President, as evidenced by an endorsement on the face of the license by the
Clerk showing to whom the license is transferred and the date of the transfer.
   (G)   Expiration of license. All licenses issued under the provisions of
this chapter shall expire 90 days after the date of issue, unless another
expiration date appears on the license.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017)
§ 112.06 VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017)
§ 112.07 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weather-proof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows: “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”.
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017)
§ 112.08 DUTY OF SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the village upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
112.07 of this chapter, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”, then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart
from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017)
§ 112.09 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
112.08 of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017)
§ 112.10 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a
residence located thereon, or rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound
in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such
residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof
and engage in soliciting, prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. of any weekday
or Saturday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
LICENSING PROCEDURES
§ 112.25 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging is such activity within the village.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Board of Trustees and is set forth below.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017)
§ 112.26 APPLICATION; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Applicants for a permit and license as a peddler must file with the
Clerk a sworn application in writing (in duplicate) on a form to be furnished
by the Clerk. This application shall be signed by the applicant if an
individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   1.   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the village;
            2.   The local address of such individual;
            3.   The permanent address of such individual; and
            4.   The capacity in which such individual will act.
         (c)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose
the business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of
incorporation;
         (d)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry
on applicant’s business;
         (e)   1.   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
            2.   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold
by sample as well as from stock; and
            3.   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
         (f)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the
business; and
         (g)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (B)(1)(b) above, or the person identified in division (B)(1)(c) above
has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
      (2)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (B)(1) above:
         (a)   A description of the applicant; and
         (b)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the
business, including its registration number, if any.
      (3)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach
to their application, if required by the village, credentials from the person,
if any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the
applicant to act as such representative.
      (4)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to
their application, in addition to any attachments required under division (B)
(3), a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior
to the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious
or communicable disease.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017)
§ 112.27 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the application, the original shall be sent to the
Board of Trustees, who shall cause an investigation of the applicant’s business
and moral character to be made as he or she deems necessary for the protection
of the public good. A period up to 24 hours from receipt of the application to
issuance is allowed for such investigation to be carried out.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that, the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has committed any of the
following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Does not qualify as a legitimate, taxpaying business.
   (C)   If, as a result of the investigation, the applicant’s character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the Board of Trustees
shall endorse on the application his or her disapproval and the reasons for the
disapproval and shall return the application to the Clerk, who shall notify the
applicant that the application has been denied and that no permit and license
will be issued.
   (D)   If, as a result of the investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the Board of
Trustees shall endorse on the application his or her approval, execute a permit
addressed to the applicant for carrying on the business applied for, and return
the permit, along with the application, to the Clerk, who shall, upon payment
of the prescribed license fee, deliver to the applicant the permit and issue a
license. The license shall contain the signature and seal of the issuing
officer and shall show the name, address and photograph of the licensee, the
class of license issued and the kind of goods to be sold under the license, the
amount of fee paid, the date of issuance and the length of time the license
shall be operative, as well as the license number and other identifying
description of any vehicle used in the peddling. The Clerk shall keep a
permanent record of all licenses issued.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017)
§ 112.28 FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Fifty dollars per day for each person proposing to peddle on
foot, by using a hand cart or push cart, from a wagon, motor vehicle, railroad
car or other vehicle conveyance; and
      (2)   Fifty dollars per day for each helper or assistant to those using
vehicles. The helpers or assistants must procure the permit and license as
provided for peddlers, itinerant merchants and solicitors in this chapter.
   (B)   The Village President, with the approval of the Board at its next
regularly scheduled meeting, shall have the right to waive or adjust the fees
in this chapter.
   (C)   No fee shall be required of one selling products of the farm or
orchard actually produced by the seller.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017)
§ 112.29 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
112.30 of this chapter. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or
her last known address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017)
§ 112.30 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017)
§ 112.31 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
112.27 or
112.30 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Trustees.
The appeal shall be taken by filing with the Board of Trustees, within 14 days
after notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known
address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Board of
Trustees shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such
hearing shall be given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
112.29 of this chapter.
   (B)   The order of the Board of Trustees after the hearing shall be final.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017)
§ 112.32 TRANSFER.
   No license or badge issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
used or worn at any time by any person other than the one to whom it was
issued.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017)
MOBILE FOOD TRUCK VENDORS
§ 112.45 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Mobile food truck vendors, as defined in this chapter, are prohibited
from operation within the Village of Hanna City unless having first obtained a
permit for such purpose.
   (B)   Any person desiring to operate as a mobile food truck vendor shall
make a written application for such permit to the Village Administrator or his
or her designee. The application for such permit shall be on forms provided by
the Village Administrator or his or her designee and shall include the
following:
      (1)   Name, signature and address of each applicant and each corporate
officer;
      (2)   Name and address of the approved commercial supply source, if
applicable;
      (3)   A description of the preparation methods and food product offered
for sale, including the intended menu, display, and the type of distribution
containers;
      (4)   The anticipated volume of food to be stored, prepared and sold;
      (5)   Proof of access to restrooms with a hand sink for use by employees
within 200 feet of the mobile food truck vendor during times when the vehicle
is parked in one location for more than two hours. Proof of access shall be
evidenced by written agreement between the vendor and the business or entity
which will provide such restroom access;
      (6)   A valid copy of the license issued by the Peoria County Health
Department authorizing the operation of the proposed mobile food establishment,
and any licenses or permits required by state and county health and
transportation authorities incidental thereto;
      (7)   Proof that during all times of mobile food truck vendor operation
in the village, at least one certified trained food handler or someone holding
a food service sanitation manager certificate must be present on the vehicle;
      (8)   A signed statement that the vendor shall hold harmless the village
and its officers and employees, and shall indemnify the village, its officers
and employees for any claims for damage to property or injury to persons which
may be occasioned by any activity carried on under the terms of the permit;
      (9)   Proof of liability insurance providing coverage of not less than
$500,000.00 per occurrence. A permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this
section shall be invalid at any time the insurance required herein is not
maintained and evidence of continuing coverage is not provided to the village;
and
      (10)   The proposed location(s) and times of operation for conducting
business in accordance with this subchapter. Mobile food truck vendors shall be
required to provide to the village a signed statement that the vendor shall
hold harmless the adjacent property owner(s) for any claims for damage to
property or injury to persons which may be occasioned by any activity carried
on or under the permit. No application will be accepted for a permit to operate
at a location where a current permit has been issued or a complete application
is pending. If the proposed location is private property, the applicant shall
provide to the village written consent from the property owner.
   (C)   Mobile food truck vendors shall notify the Village Administrator or
his or her designee within 30 days of any changes to the application
information required under this section.
(Ord. 21-06-06, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 112.46 PERMIT FEES.
   All mobile food truck vendors licensed under this subchapter shall pay to
the village a fee of $50.00 per week of operation or per event in which the
vendor is conducting business. A "week" shall mean a period of seven
consecutive days without regard to the number of hours during which the mobile
food truck vendor was in operation.
(Ord. 21-06-06, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 112.47 OPERATION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   All mobile food truck vendors licensed under this subchapter may operate on
private property in any zoning district other than residential districts, with
the exception of mobile food truck vendors operated as part of an approved
special event.
(Ord. 21-06-06, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 112.48 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   A mobile food truck vendor may only operate between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 21-06-06, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 112.49 SALES TAX.
   All mobile food truck vendors shall provide to the Village Administrator
their Illinois Business Tax (IBT) number and shall maintain a mobile point-of-
sale system which uses GPS to determine the sale location and compute the
appropriate tax rate for such location.
(Ord. 21-06-06, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 112.50 CONDITIONS ON OPERATION.
   All mobile food truck vendors are subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   Receptacles for refuse must be provided and all waste must be properly
disposed of.
   (B)   All noise regulations of the village must be complied with. Amplified
sound or music emanating from the vehicle is prohibited.
   (C)   Signage that is painted on, or permanently affixed to the vehicle is
allowed. Displaying additional signs, such as freestanding sandwich boards, is
prohibited, except when used to display the mobile food truck vendor's menu.
   (D)   Parking in fire lanes, handicap parking spaces, or in any other
location that will impede traffic flow or create unsafe conditions for
pedestrians is prohibited.
(Ord. 21-06-06, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 112.51 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   A mobile food truck vendor may be denied a permit under this chapter for any
of the following reasons:
   (A)   The applicant has previously failed to comply with the conditions on
operation under §
112.50.
   (B)   The applicant has been convicted by the village for a violation of any
provision of this chapter.
   (C)   The applicant has failed to qualify for any other license or permit
required under §
112.45.
(Ord. 21-06-06, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 112.52 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The village may revoke any food truck permit under any of the following
conditions:
   (A)   The permit-holder is found in violation of this chapter, the statutes
of the State of Illinois, or ordinances of the village related to the public
health, safety, or fire protection;
   (B)   The permit-holder has made a false material statement in its permit
application;
   (C)   The permit-holder fails to comply with any of the provisions, terms,
or conditions of the permit issued pursuant to this subchapter; or
   (D)   The owner of the private property on which the mobile food truck
vendor is operating has communicated to the village in writing that the mobile
food truck vendor no longer has permission to operate on the owner's premises.
(Ord. 21-06-06, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined an amount as
set forth in §
10.99. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 17-10-01, passed - -2017)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
Section
Billiards, Pool Halls and Bowling Alleys
   
113.01   License required; fees
   
113.02   Bowling alleys, frontage consent
   
113.03   Gambling prohibited
   
113.04   Closing hours
   
113.05   Obstructions to view
   
113.06   Inspection by police
 
   
113.99   Penalty
BILLIARDS, POOL HALLS AND
BOWLING ALLEYS
§ 113.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall have, keep or conduct for profit within the
village any billiard or pool table, bowling or pin and ball alley, without
first obtaining a license, as provided in this subchapter.
      (2)   Any person desiring to have, keep or conduct any billiard or pool
table or any bowling or pin and ball alley for profit in the village, and
desiring to be licensed under the provisions of this subchapter, shall make
written application for the license to the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   Upon the approval and granting by the Board of Trustees of a
license and the payment of the required license fee by the applicant to the
Clerk, a license may be issued to the applicant. The license shall be signed by
the President and attested by the Clerk, and shall authorize the keeping,
conducting or operating of the billiard or pool table or tables or bowling or
pin and ball alley or alleys.
(2010 Code, § 174.30)
   (B)   (1)   The following fees shall be charged for licenses under this
section:
 
Billiard or pool tables
   First table, per year        As set by the Board of Trustees from time to
                                   time
   Each additional table, per yeAs set by the Board of Trustees from time to
                                   time
Bowling, pin and ball alley
   First alley, per year        As set by the Board of Trustees from time to
                                   time
   Each additional alley, per yeAs set by the Board of Trustees from time to
                                   time
 
      (2)   All license fees shall be paid quarterly in advance.
(2010 Code, § 174.31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 BOWLING ALLEYS, FRONTAGE CONSENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, use or operate any bowling or
pin and ball alley or alleys in any building, structure or place located upon
any street or alley in the village in any block in which two-thirds of the
buildings on both sides of the street in a block between the two nearest
intersecting streets are used exclusively for residence purposes, without the
written consent of a majority of the owners of the property, according to
frontage, on both sides of the street or alley between the intersecting
streets. This written consent shall accompany the application made to the Board
of Trustees for a license.
(2010 Code, § 174.32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person licensed under the provisions of this subchapter shall
permit any gambling in the place of business, either by means of cards, dice,
balls and pins, or any other device; provided, however, the prohibitions
provided for in this chapter and any other chapter or section of the village
code that may reference or govern gambling or gaming, shall not apply to any
gambling device for which a license or permit has been issued by the state’s
Gaming Board pursuant to the state’s Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.,
so long as such device is conducted in compliance with all the requirements of
said act and all rules and regulations of the state’s Gaming Board.
   (B)   There is hereby imposed a license fee of as set by the Board of
Trustees from time to time payable to the village annually, an amount as set by
the Board of Trustees from time to time per device per year, on any device
within the village for which a license or permit has been issued by the state’s
Gaming Board pursuant to the state’s Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.,
which fee shall be paid by the owner of the operation in which the licensed or
permitted device is located. Said per year payment shall be due on the first
day the said device is placed into service and on the anniversary of said
license for each year thereafter that the device continues in service. A
license will issue upon a showing of the appropriate state licenses or permits
and must be displayed at the licensed premises.
(2010 Code, § 174.33) (Ord. 12-08-02, passed 8-21-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 CLOSING HOURS.
   All billiard or pool rooms and bowling or pin and ball alleys shall be
closed by 2:00 a.m. of each day and shall be kept closed until 6:00 a.m. of
that day, and no games shall be allowed during those hours.
(2010 Code, § 174.34) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.05 OBSTRUCTIONS TO VIEW.
   No keeper of any billiard room or hall or of any of the other rooms or
places enumerated in this subchapter shall have any painted windows, curtains,
screens or other device which would prohibit or hinder anyone from seeing into
any part of the room at all hours of the day or night, either week day or
Sunday.
(2010 Code, § 174.35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.06 INSPECTION BY POLICE.
   Every room or place kept open by virtue of a license under this subchapter
shall be subject to inspection by any police officer, at any time the police
officer may deem it necessary to enter the premises. Any person hindering,
resisting, opposing or attempting to hinder, resist or oppose the police
officer from entering the room or place shall pay a fine as provided in this
code.
(2010 Code, § 174.36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person guilty of violating §
113.05 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine as set forth in §
10.99, for each offense and a penalty as set forth in §
10.99 for each and every day the painted windows, curtains, screens or other
devices are in place.
(2010 Code, § 174.35)
CHAPTER 114: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
114.001   Short title
   
114.002   Definitions
   
114.003   Adult Use Commissioner
   
114.004   Administrative record
   
114.005   Record keeping
   
114.006   Nuisance declared
   
114.007   Computation of time
Licensing Provisions
   
114.020   License required
   
114.021   Operation without license prohibited
   
114.022   Operation in violation of license prohibited
   
114.023   Content and display of license
   
114.024   License term
   
114.025   Existing establishments
   
114.026   Renewal
   
114.027   Application; form and submittal
   
114.028   Processing license application
   
114.029   Issuance or denial; standards
   
114.030   Inspection
   
114.031   Change in information
   
114.032   Licensee responsibility for employees
   
114.033   License revocation or suspension
Regulations and Conditions for All Uses
   
114.045   General compliance
   
114.046   Hours of operation
   
114.047   Animals
   
114.048   Restrooms
   
114.049   Restricted access
   
114.050   Specific prohibited acts
   
114.051   Exterior display
   
114.052   Signage limitations
   
114.053   Noise
   
114.054   Gambling and related devices prohibited
   
114.055   Manager’s station
   
114.056   Alcohol prohibition
Regulations and Conditions for Specific Uses
   
114.070   Adult booths
   
114.071   Adult cabarets
   
114.072   Adult stores
   
114.073   Adult theaters
 
   
114.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, and may be referred to as, the “Hanna City
Adult Use Licensing Ordinance”.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
§ 114.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOTH. Any area of an adult entertainment establishment set off from
the remainder of such establishment by one or more walls or other dividers or
partitions and used to show, play or otherwise demonstrate any adult materials
or to view any live performance that is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction or description of specified anatomical
areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISH- MENT. Any of the following commercial
establishments, as defined herein.
      (1)   ADULT BODY SHOP. Any commercial establishment that as a substantial
or significant portion of its business features or provides:
         (a)   Individuals exposing, depicting or describing specified
anatomical areas or conducting or simulating specified sexual activities, to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly
depicted by patron of the commercial establishment; or
         (b)   Nude or semi-nude dancing, readings, counseling sessions, body
painting or other activities exposing, depicting or describing specified
anatomical areas or conducting or simulating specified sexual activities for
observation by or communication to patrons of the commercial establishment.
      (2)   ADULT CABARET. Any commercial establishment that as a substantial
or significant portion of its business features or provides any of the
following:
         (a)   Persons who appear nude or semi- nude;
         (b)   Live performances that are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction or description of specified anatomical
areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities; and
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides,
computer displays or other visual representations or recordings of any kind
that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the exposure,
depiction or description of specified anatomical areas or the conduct or
simulation of specified sexual activities.
      (3)   ADULT STORE. ANY COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   Contains one or more adult booths;
         (b)   As a substantial or significant portion of its business offers
for sale, rental or viewing any adult materials; or
         (c)   Has a segment or section devoted to the sale or display of adult
materials.
      (4)   ADULT THEATER. Any commercial establishment that as a substantial
or significant portion of its business features or provided:
         (a)   Films, motion pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides or
other visual representations or recordings of any kind that are distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on the exposure, depiction or description of
specified anatomical areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual
activities; or
         (b)   Live performances that are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction or description of specified anatomical
areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT EMPLOYEE. Any individual, including entertainers, who
work in or at, or render any services directly related to the operation of, an
adult entertainment establishment; provided, however, that, this definition
shall not include persons delivering goods, materials (other than adult
materials), food and beverages or performing maintenance or repairs, to the
licensed premises.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE. A license issued for an adult entertainment
establishment pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT PATRON. Any individual, other than an adult
establishment employee, present in or at any adult entertainment establishment
at any time when such adult entertainment establishment is open for business;
provided, however, that this definition shall not include persons delivering
goods, materials (other than adult materials), food and beverages, or
performing maintenance or repairs, to the licensed premises.
   ADULT MATERIAL. Any of the following, whether new or used:
      (1)   (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
digitally stored material; or
         (b)   Films, motion pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides,
computer displays or other visual representations or recordings of any kind,
that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the exposure,
depiction or description of specified anatomical areas, or the conduct or
simulation of specified sexual activities.
      (2)   Instruments, novelties, devices or paraphernalia that are designed
for use in connection with specified sexual activities, or that depict or
describe specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE COMMISSIONER. The President of the Board of Trustees of the
village, pursuant to §
114.003 of this chapter.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place where admission, services, performances
or products are provided for or upon payment of any form of consideration.
   DAYS. Calendar days, unless otherwise specifically set forth in this
chapter.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. The effective date of this chapter shall be deemed to be 5-
21-2013.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The place or location described in an adult establishment
license where an adult entertainment establishment is authorized to operate. No
sidewalks, streets, parking areas, public rights-of-way or grounds adjacent to
any such place or location shall be included within the LICENSED PREMISES.
   LICENSEE. Any person or entity that has been issued an adult establishment
license pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   NUDE or STATE OF NUDITY. A state of dress or undress that exposes to view:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals; pubic
region; anus; or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areolae, but not including any portion of the cleavage of the female breast
exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit or other wearing
apparel; provided, the areolae is not exposed; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered, or any device or covering that, when worn,
simulates human male genital in a discernibly turgid state.
   REVIEWING DEPARTMENTS. The Police Department and the Planning Department.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress or undress in which clothing covers no more than
the human genitals, pubic region, anus and areolae of the female breast, as
well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices or by
other minor accessory apparel such as hats, gloves and socks.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals; pubic
region; buttocks; anus; or female breast below a point immediately above the
top of the areolae, but not including any portion of the cleavage of the female
breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit or other
wearing apparel, provided the areolae is not exposed; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered, or any device or covering that, when worn,
simulates human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACT. Any unlawful lewd, indecent or immoral conduct,
including specifically, but without limitation, any of the lewd, indecent or
immoral criminal acts specified in any of the following statutes:
      (1)   Art. 11 of the Illinois Criminal Code (sex offenses), 720 ILCS 5/
11.0 et seq.;
      (2)   Section 26-4 of the Illinois Criminal Code, 720 ILCS 5/26-4
(unauthorized videotaping);
      (3)   Section 12C-30 of the Illinois Criminal Code, 720 ILCS 5/12C-30
(contributing to the criminal delinquency of a juvenile);
      (4)   Harassment by Telephone, 720 ILCS 5/26.5-2;
      (5)   The Wrongs to Children Act, 720 ILCS 150/0.01 et seq.;
      (6)   The Improper Supervision of Children Act, 720 ILCS 640/0.01 et
seq.;
      (7)   The Sale of Immoral Publications to Children Act, 720 ILCS 670/0.01
et seq.;
      (8)   The Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.; and
      (9)   The Controlled Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence; and
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1), (2), (3) or (4) above.
   STRADDLE DANCE. The use by any person, including specifically, but without
limitation, an adult establishment employee, of any part of his or her body to
touch the genitals, pubic region, buttock, anus or female breast of any adult
establishment patron or any other person, or the touching of the genitals,
pubic region, buttock, anus or female breast of any person by any adult
establishment patron. Conduct shall be a STRADDLE DANCE regardless of whether
the “touch” or “touching” occurs while the person is displaying or exposing any
specified anatomical area. Conduct shall also be a STRADDLE DANCE regardless of
whether the “touch” or “touching” is direct or through a medium. Conduct
commonly referred to by the slang terms LAP DANCE, TABLE DANCE and FACE DANCE
shall be included within this definition of STRADDLE DANCE.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
§ 114.003 ADULT USE COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The President of the Village Board of Trustees is hereby designated as
the Adult Use Commissioner pursuant to the terms and conditions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Adult Use Commissioner shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To administer and rule upon the applications for, and the issuance,
renewal, suspension, and revocation of, adult establishment licenses as set
forth in this chapter;
      (2)   To conduct or provide for such inspections of adult entertainment
establishments as shall be necessary to determine and ensure compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and other applicable provisions of law;
      (3)   To periodically review the provisions of this chapter and the
conduct and operation of adult entertainment establishments and adult
establishment licensees, and to make such related reports and recommendations
to the Village Board of Trustees as the Adult Use Commissioner shall deem
necessary;
      (4)   To conduct such hearings, studies and reports on adult
entertainment establishments, and the regulations relating thereto, as the
Adult Use Commissioner shall deem necessary, and to conduct such hearings on
the revocation or suspension of an adult establishment license, as required
pursuant to §
114.033 of this chapter; and
      (5)   To take such further actions as the Adult Use Commissioner shall
deem necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this chapter and to
exercise such additional powers in furtherance thereof as are implied or
incident to those powers and duties expressly set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
§ 114.004 ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD.
   The Adult Use Commissioner shall cause to be kept in the Adult Use
Commissioner’s office an accurate record of every adult establishment license
application received and acted on, together with all relevant information and
material pertaining to such application, any adult establishment license issued
pursuant thereto and any adult entertainment establishment operated pursuant to
such adult establishment license.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
§ 114.005 RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   The licensee of every adult entertainment establishment shall maintain
a register of all of its adult establishment employees.
   (B)   For each such employee, the register shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Legal name;
      (2)   Any and all aliases;
      (3)   Current residential address and telephone number;
      (4)   Date of birth;
      (5)   Gender;
      (6)   Social Security number;
      (7)   Date of commencement of employment;
      (8)   Date of employment termination, if applicable; and
      (9)   Specific job or employment duties.
   (C)   (1)   The register shall be maintained for all current employees and
all employees employed at any time during the preceding 36 months.
      (2)   The licensee shall make the register of its adult establishment
employees available for inspection by the village immediately upon demand at
all reasonable times.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
§ 114.006 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any adult entertainment establishment established, operated or maintained in
violation of any of the provisions or requirements of this chapter or of any
adult establishment license shall be, and the same is, declared to be unlawful
and a public nuisance. The village may, in addition to or in lieu of any other
remedies set forth in this chapter, commence an action to enjoin, remove or
abate such nuisance in the manner provided by law and shall take such other
steps and apply to such court or courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such
relief as will abate or remove such public nuisance, and restrain and enjoin
any person from establishing, operating or maintaining an adult entertainment
establishment contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.007 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically set forth in this chapter, the time
within which any act required by this chapter is to be done shall be computed
by excluding the first day and including the last day, unless the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a federal or state holiday; in which case, it shall also be
excluded.
   (B)   If the day immediately following such Saturday, Sunday or holiday is
also a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, then such succeeding day shall also be
excluded.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 114.020 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   An adult establishment license shall be required to establish, operate or
maintain an adult entertainment establishment within the village.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
§ 114.021 OPERATION WITHOUT LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   Except as provided in §
114.025 of this chapter, with regard to adult entertainment establishments
existing prior to the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person not having a current and valid adult establishment license to
establish, operate or maintain an adult entertainment establishment within the
village at any time after the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.022 OPERATION IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to establish, operate or maintain an
adult entertainment establishment within the village except in the manner
authorized by, and in compliance with, the provisions of this chapter and the
licensee’s adult establishment license.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.023 CONTENT AND DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every adult establishment license shall be provided by the village and
shall, at a minimum, prominently state on its face the name of the licensee,
the expiration date and the address of the adult entertainment establishment.
   (B)   Every licensee shall cause the licensee’s adult establishment license
to be framed, covered by glass and hung at all times in plain view in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises so that it can be easily seen and
read at any time by any person entering the licensed premises.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.024 LICENSE TERM.
   Except as hereinafter provided, adult establishment licenses shall be
operative and valid, unless first terminated, suspended or revoked, for a term
of one year, commencing on January 1 of the year following the year of issuance
and terminating on December 31 of that same year. Adult establishment licenses
issued after January 1 of any year for operations to commence in that year
shall be operative and valid, unless first terminated, suspended or revoked,
for a term commencing on the date of issuance and terminating on December 31 of
that same year.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
§ 114.025 EXISTING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Application generally. An adult entertainment establishment existing
and operating on or prior to the effective date (“existing establishment”) may
continue to exist and operate as of the effective date; provided, however,
that, the existing establishment:
      (1)   Shall submit an application for an adult establishment license not
later than 4-1-1999;
      (2)   Shall cease operations on 10-1-1999 (the “licensure date”), unless
it has secured an adult establishment license by the licensure date; and
      (3)   Shall comply with, and continue at all times to comply with, the
requirements of division (B) below.
   (B)   Required compliance on effective date. An existing establishment
shall, as of the effective date, be subject to the provisions of §§
114.030,
114.045 through
114.047,
114.049 through
114.054,
114.070(A) through (C) and
114.071(C) through (E) of this chapter and shall, at all times, continue in
compliance with said provisions.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
§ 114.026 RENEWAL.
   An adult establishment license may be renewed only by making application as
required for an initial license pursuant to §
114.027 of this chapter. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days
before the expiration of the then-current license term. The expiration of the
license shall not be affected or extended by a renewal application that is made
less than 30 days before expiration.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
§ 114.027 APPLICATION; FORM AND SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   Required form.
      (1)   An application for an adult establishment license, or the renewal
thereof, shall be made in writing to the Adult Use Commissioner on a form
prescribed by the Adult Use Commissioner and shall be signed:
         (a)   By the applicant, if the applicant is an individual;
         (b)   By at least one of the persons entitled to share in the profits
of the organization and having unlimited personal liability for the obligations
of the organization and the right to bind all other such persons, if the
applicant is a partnership (general or limited), joint venture or any other
type of organization where two or more persons share in the profits and
liabilities of the organization;
         (c)   By a duly authorized agent, if the applicant is a corporation;
or
         (d)   By the trustee, if the applicant is a land trust.
      (2)   The application shall be verified by oath or affidavit as to all
statements made on or in connection with the application and any attachments
thereto. Each application shall specifically identify the applicant and the
licensed premises for which an adult establishment license is sought. Each
initial or renewal application shall be accompanied by seven identical copies.
   (B)   Administrative processing fee and security.
      (1)   Administrative processing fee. Every applicant for an adult
establishment license or for the renewal of an existing adult establishment
license shall pay an administrative processing fee in an amount as set by the
Board of Trustees from time to time by certified check to the village at the
time of filing such application. The administrative processing fee shall in all
cases be non-refundable and shall be deposited in the general corporate fund of
the village.
      (2)   Bond or other security. Each adult establishment license, and any
renewals thereof, shall be conditioned on the acquisition and maintenance in
good standing by the applicant and licensee of a surety bond or other similar
security in favor of the village in the amount, as set by the Board of Trustees
from time to time, to the village. Before an adult establishment license may be
issued, the applicant shall furnish such bond or security, and before an adult
establishment license is renewed or reinstated following revocation or
suspension, the licensee shall submit evidence that the bond or other security,
in the amount required pursuant hereto, remains in full force and effect. The
bond or other security, or part thereof, for an adult entertainment
establishment shall be forfeited automatically pursuant to §
114.033(B)(4) of this chapter in order to reimburse the village for the
village’s costs in association with the proceedings related to any suspension
or revocation of the license.
   (C)   Required information and documents. Each application shall include the
following information:
      (1)   (a)   Individuals: the applicant’s legal name, all of the
applicant’s aliases, the applicant’s business address and Social Security
number, written proof of the applicant’s age, the citizenship and place of
birth of the applicant and, if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of the
applicant’s naturalization;
         (b)   Corporations: the applicant corporation’s complete name and
official business address; the legal name, all aliases and the ages, business
addresses and Social Security numbers of all of the directors, officers and
managers of the corporation and of every person owning or controlling more than
50% of the voting shares of the corporation; the corporation’s date and place
of incorporation and the objects for which it was formed; proof that the
corporation is a corporation in good standing and authorized to conduct
business in the state; and the name of the registered corporate agent and the
address of the registered office for service of process;
         (c)   Partnerships (general or limited), joint ventures or any other
type of organization where two or more persons share in the profits and
liabilities of the organization: the applicant organization’s complete name and
official business address; the legal name, all aliases and the ages, business
addresses and Social Security numbers of each partner (other than limited
partners) or any other person entitled to share in the profits of the
organization, whether or not any such person is also obligated to share in the
liabilities of the organization; and
         (d)   Land trusts: the applicant land trust’s complete name; the legal
name, all aliases and the business address of the trustee of the land trust;
the legal name, all aliases and the ages, business addresses and Social
Security numbers of each beneficiary of the land trust and the specific
interest of each such beneficiary in the land trust; and the interest, if any,
that the land trust holds in the licensed premises.
      (2)   If a corporation or partnership is an interest holder that must be
disclosed pursuant to divisions (C)(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) above, then such
interest holders shall disclose the information required in said divisions with
respect to their interest holders;
      (3)   The general character and nature of the business of the applicant;
      (4)   The length of time that the applicant has been in the business of
the character specified in response to division (C)(3) above;
      (5)   The location, including street address and legal description, and
telephone number, of the premises for which the adult establishment license is
sought;
      (6)   The specific name of the business that is to be operated under the
adult establishment license;
      (7)   The identity of each fee simple owner of the licensed premises;
      (8)   A diagram showing the internal and external configuration of the
licensed premises, including all doors, windows, entrances, exits, the fixed
structural internal features of the licensed premises, plus the interior rooms,
walls, partitions, stages, performance areas and restrooms. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall
not be required; provided, however, that, each diagram shall be oriented to the
north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn to a designated
scale or with marked dimensions to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches and
sufficient to show clearly the various interior dimensions of all areas of the
licensed premises and to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. The requirements of this division (C)(8) shall not apply for renewal
applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted
for the license sought to be renewed and if the licensee certifies that the
licensed premises has not been altered since the immediately preceding issuance
of the license and that the previous diagram continues to accurately depict the
exterior and interior layouts of the licensed premises has not been altered
since the immediately preceding issuance of the license and that the previous
diagram continues to accurately depict the exterior and interior layouts of the
licensed premises. The approval or use of the diagram required pursuant to this
division (C)(8) shall not be deemed to be, and shall not be interpreted or
construed to constitute, any other village approval otherwise required pursuant
to applicable village ordinances and regulations;
      (9)   The names of each governmental body from which, within five years
immediately prior to the date of the present application, the applicant, or any
of the individuals identified in the application pursuant to divisions (C)(1)
or (C)(2) above, has received a license or other authorization to conduct or
operate a business:
         (a)   Substantially the same as an adult entertainment establishment
and the names and addresses of each such business;
         (b)   Requiring a federal, state or local liquor license; or
         (c)   Requiring a federal, state or local gaming license.
      (10)   The specific type or types of adult entertainment establishment(s)
that the applicant purposes to operate in the licensed premises;
      (11)   A copy of each adult establishment license, liquor license and
gaming license currently held by the applicant, or any of the individuals
identified in the application pursuant to divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above;
      (12)   Whether the applicant, or any of the individuals identified in the
application pursuant to divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above, has been, within five
years immediately preceding the date of the application, convicted of, or
pleaded nolo contendere to, any specified criminal act. As to each conviction,
the applicant or other individual shall provide the conviction date, the case
number, the nature of the misdemeanor or felony violation(s) or offense(s), and
the name and location of the court;
      (13)   Whether the applicant, or any of the individuals identified in the
application pursuant to divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above, has had a license or
other authorization to conduct or operate a business substantially the same as
an adult entertainment establishment or any business requiring either a liquor
or gaming license, revoked or suspended and, if so, the date and grounds for
each such revocation or suspension, and the name and location of the
establishment at issue;
      (14)   The name of the individual or individuals who shall be the day-to-
day, on-site managers of the proposed adult entertainment establishment. If the
manager is other than the applicant, the applicant shall provide, for each
manger all of the information required pursuant to divisions (C)(1), (C)(9),
(C)(11), (C)(12) and (C)(13) above; and
      (15)   For the individual or individuals executing the application
pursuant to division (A) above, and the individuals identified pursuant to
division (C)(14) above, a fully executed waiver on a form prescribed by the
village to obtain criminal conviction information pursuant to the state’s
Uniform Conviction Information Act, being 20 ILCS 2635/1 et seq.
   (D)   Incomplete application returned. Any application for an adult
establishment license that does not include all of the information and
documents required pursuant to division (C) above as well as the administrative
processing fee and bond or other security required pursuant to division (B)
above, shall be deemed to be incomplete and shall not be acted on or processed
by the village. The Adult Use Commissioner shall, within five days of such
submittal, return the incomplete application to the applicant along with a
written explanation of the reasons why the application is incomplete.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
§ 114.028 PROCESSING LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Reviewing departments. Within three days after receipt of a complete
application for an adult establishment license including all of the information
and documents required pursuant to §
114.027(C) of this chapter, as well as the administrative processing fee and
bond or other security required pursuant to §
114.027(B) of this chapter, the Adult Use Commissioner shall transmit a copy of
the application to the reviewing departments.
   (B)   Reviewing department reports. Each of the reviewing departments shall,
within 25 days after transmittal of the application thereto, or within such
other period of time as the village and the applicant may otherwise agree:
      (1)   Review the application;
      (2)   Conduct such inspections of the proposed licensed premises and
background investigations of the applicant and any of the individuals
identified in the application pursuant to §
114.027(C)(1), (C)(2) or (C)(4) of this chapter, regarding matters within their
respective jurisdictions, as shall be reasonably necessary to verify the
information set forth in the application and to determine whether the proposed
adult entertainment establishment and licensed premises comply with the
requirements of this chapter and other applicable laws, codes, ordinances,
rules and regulations; and
      (3)   Prepare and submit to the Adult Use Commissioner a written report
regarding the results and findings of such reviews, inspections and
investigations.
   (C)   Adult Use Commissioner review. The Adult Use Commissioner shall also
conduct such inspections and investigations as the Adult Use Commissioner shall
deem reasonably necessary to verify the information set forth in the
application and to determine whether the proposed adult entertainment
establishment and licensed premises comply with the requirements of this
chapter and other applicable laws, codes, ordinances, rules and regulations.
   (D)   Reliance on diagram. In the event that the licensed premises has not
yet been constructed or reconstructed to accommodate the proposed adult
entertainment establishment, the Adult Use Commissioner and the reviewing
departments shall base their respective written reports, investigations, and
inspections to the extent necessary, on the diagram submitted pursuant to §
114.027(C)(8) of this chapter. Any adult establishment license issued prior to
the construction or reconstruction necessary to accommodate the proposed adult
entertainment establishment shall contain a condition that the adult
entertainment establishment shall not open for business until the licensed
premises has been inspected and determined to be in substantial compliance with
the diagram submitted with the application.
   (E)   Applicant cooperation required. An applicant for an adult
establishment license shall cooperate fully in the inspection and investigation
conducted by the Adult Use Commissioner and the reviewing departments. The
applicant’s failure or refusal to give any information reasonably relevant to
the investigation of the application; to allow the Licensed Premises to be
inspected; to appear at any reasonable time and place for examination under
oath regarding the application; or to otherwise cooperate with the
investigation and inspection required by this chapter, shall constitute an
admission by the applicant that the applicant is ineligible for an adult
establishment license and shall be grounds for denial of the license by the
Adult Use Commissioner.
   (F)   Time for issuance or denial.
      (1)   The Adult Use Commissioner shall, within 30 days after submittal of
properly completed application, or within such other period of time as the
village and the applicant shall otherwise agree, either issue an adult
establishment license pursuant to the provisions of §
114.029 of this chapter or deny issuance of the adult establishment license
pursuant to the provisions of §
114.029(B) of this chapter.
      (2)   The Adult Use Commissioner shall issue or deny the license within
said 30-day period, or such other period of time as shall have been agreed to
by the village and the applicant, regardless of whether or not the Adult Use
Commissioner has received all of the reviewing department reports.
   (G)   Decision final. The action taken by the Adult Use Commissioner to
issue or deny an adult establishment license pursuant, respectively, to §
114.029(A) or (B) of this chapter shall be final and shall be subject to
judicial review.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
§ 114.029 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL; STANDARDS.
   (A)   Issuance. The Adult Use Commissioner shall issue an adult
establishment license to an applicant if, but only if, the Adult Use
Commissioner finds and determines all of the following, based on the reports,
investigations and inspections conducted by the Adult Use Commissioner and the
reviewing departments and on any other credible information on which it is
reasonable for the Adult Use Commissioner to rely:
      (1)   All information and documents required by this section for issuance
of an adult establishment license have been properly provided and the material
statements made in the application are true and correct;
      (2)   For adult stores and adult theaters, all persons identified in the
applications pursuant to §
114.027(C)(1), (C)(2) or (C)(14) of this chapter are at least 18 years of age
and not under any legal disability. For adult cabarets, all persons identified
in the application pursuant to §
114.027(C)(1), (C)(2) or (C)(14) of this chapter are at least 21 years of age
and not under any legal disability;
      (3)   No person identified in the application pursuant to §
114.027(C)(1), (C)(2) or (C)(14) of this chapter has been convicted of, or
pleaded nolo contendere to, any specified criminal act within five years
immediately preceding the date of the application;
      (4)   No person identified in the application pursuant to §
114.027(C)(1), (C)(2) or (C)(14) of this chapter has been convicted of, or
pleaded nolo contendere to, any violation of a provision of this chapter within
five years immediately preceding the date of the application;
      (5)   No person identified in the application pursuant to §
114.027(C)(1), (C)(2) or (C)(14) of this chapter is overdue on payment to the
village of taxes, fees, liens or penalties assessed against, or imposed on, any
such individuals in connection to any adult entertainment establishment;
      (6)   No person identified in the application pursuant to §
114.027(C)(1), (C)(2) or (C)(14) of this chapter is residing with, or married
to, a person:
         (a)   Who has been denied an adult establishment license within 12
months immediately preceding the date of the application; or
         (b)   Whose adult establishment license is under suspension at the
time of application.
      (7)   The adult entertainment establishment and the licensed premises,
and the proposed operation of the adult entertainment establishment, comply
with all then-applicable building, health, and life safety codes and
regulations and have received all necessary zoning approval required pursuant
to the then applicable provisions of the county’s Zoning Ordinance; and
      (8)   The applicant has confirmed in writing and under oath as part of
the application that the applicant has read this chapter, that the applicant is
familiar with the terms and conditions and that the licensed premises and the
proposed adult entertainment establishment and its proposed operation are and
shall be in compliance therewith.
   (B)   Denial. If the Adult Use Commissioner determines that the applicant
has not met any one or more of the conditions set forth in division (A) above,
then the Adult Use Commissioner shall deny issuance of the adult establishment
license and shall give the applicant a written notification and explanation of
such denial. The Adult Use Commissioner’s notice of denial shall be delivered
in person or by certified U.S. mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested,
addressed to the applicant’s address as set forth in the application. The adult
establishment license shall be deemed denied on the day that the notice of
denial is delivered in person or three days after it is placed in the U.S. mail
as provided in this division (B).
   (C)   License deemed to be issued. If the Adult Use Commissioner does not
issue, nor deny, the adult establishment license within 30 days after the
properly completed application is submitted, then the adult establishment
license applied for shall be deemed to have been issued.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
§ 114.030 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Authority. The Adult Use Commissioner and other village
representatives and departments with jurisdiction shall periodically inspect
all adult entertainment establishments as shall be necessary to determine
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and all other applicable law.
   (B)   Licensee cooperation. A licensee shall permit representatives of the
village to inspect the licensed premises and the adult entertainment
establishment for the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of
this chapter and all other applicable law at any time during which the licensed
premises is occupied or the adult entertainment establishment is open for
business.
   (C)   Interference or refusal illegal. It shall be unlawful for the
licensee, any adult establishment employee or any other person to prohibit,
interfere with or refuse or allow, any lawful inspection conducted by the
village pursuant to this chapter or any other authority.
   (D)   Suspension or revocation. Any such prohibition, interference or
refusal shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of the adult
establishment license pursuant to §
114.033 of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
§ 114.031 CHANGE IN INFORMATION.
   During the pendency of any application for, or during the term of, any adult
establishment license, the applicant of licensee shall promptly notify the
Adult Use Commissioner in writing:
   (A)   Of any change in any material information given by the applicant or
licensee in the application for such license, including specifically, but
without limitation, any change in managers of the adult entertainment
establishment or in the individuals identified in the application pursuant to §
114.027(C)(1), (C)(2) or (C)(14) of this chapter; or
   (B)   If any of the events constituting grounds for suspension or revocation
pursuant to §
114.033(A) of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
§ 114.032 LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITY FOR EMPLOYEES.
   Every act or omission by an adult establishment employee constituting a
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to be the act or
omission of the licensee if such act or omission occurs either with the
authorization, knowledge or approval of the licensee, or as a result of the
licensee’s negligent failure to supervise the adult establishment employee. The
licensee shall be punishable for any such act or omission in the same manner as
if the licensee committed the act or caused the omission. Accordingly, any such
act or omission of any such employee constituting a violation of the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed, for purposes of determining whether the
licensee’s adult establishment license shall be revoked, suspended or renewed,
to be the act or omission of the licensee.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
§ 114.033 LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Grounds. Pursuant to the procedures set forth in division (B) below,
the Adult Use Commissioner any one or more of the following has occurred:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any of the provisions or requirements of
this chapter or the adult establishment license issued pursuant hereto, or the
provisions of the county’s Zoning Ordinance applicable to the licensed premises
or the adult entertainment establishment;
      (2)   The licensee knowingly or negligently furnished false or misleading
information or withheld information on any application or other document
submitted to the village for the issuance or renewal of any adult establishment
license or knowingly or negligently caused or suffered any other person to
furnish or withhold any such information on the licensee’s behalf;
      (3)   The licensee has committed a felony or specified criminal act on
the licensed premises;
      (4)   The licensee authorizes, approves or, as a result of the licensee’s
negligent failure to prevent any person violating any of the provisions or
requirements of this chapter or of the provisions or requirements of the adult
establishment license issued pursuant hereto or commit any felony or specified
criminal act on the licensed premises; and
      (5)   The licensee or any person identified pursuant to §
114.027(C)(1), (C)(2) or (C)(14) of this chapter becomes disqualified for the
issuance of an adult establishment license at any time during the term of the
license at issue.
   (B)   Procedure. An adult entertainment establishment license may be
suspended for not more than 30 days or revoked pursuant to the terms and
conditions set forth in this division (B).
      (1)   Notice.
         (a)   Upon determining that one or more of the grounds for suspension
or revocation under division (A) above may exist, the Adult Use Commissioner
shall serve a written notice on the licensee in person or by certified U.S.
mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the licensee’s
address as set forth in the licensee’s application. The written notice shall,
at a minimum:
            1.   State that the Adult Use Commissioner has determined that the
adult establishment license may be subject to suspension or revocation pursuant
to division (A) above;
            2.   Identify the specific grounds for the Adult Use Commissioner’s
determination; and
            3.   Set a date for a hearing regarding the Adult Use
Commissioner’s determination as to the possibility of suspension or revocation
of the adult establishment license.
         (b)   The date of the hearing shall be no less than five days after
service of the Adult Use Commissioner’s notice, unless an earlier or later date
is agreed to by the licensee and the Adult Use Commissioner.
      (2)   Hearing. The hearing shall be conducted by the Adult Use
Commissioner. At the hearing, the licensee may present and submit evidence and
witnesses to refute the grounds cited by the Adult Use Commissioner for
suspending or revoking the license and the village and any other persons may
submit evidence to sustain such grounds. The administrative record compiled on
the adult entertainment pursuant to §
114.004 of this chapter shall be made part of the healing record. Within three
days after the close of the hearing, the Adult Use Commissioner shall, having
considered the record made at the hearing, render a decision in writing,
setting forth the reasons for the decision. The action taken by the Adult Use
Commissioner shall be final and shall be subject to judicial review.
      (3)   Notice and effective date of suspension or revocation.
         (a)   The Adult Use Commissioner’s written decision shall be posted at
the office of the Adult Use Commissioner and shall be served on the licensee in
person or by certified U.S. mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested,
addressed to the licensee’s address as set forth in the licensee’s application.
         (b)   Any suspension or revocation, as the case may be, shall take
effect on the day that the Adult Use Commissioner’s written decision is
delivered in person or three days after it is placed in the U.S. mail as
provided in this division (B).
      (4)   Surrender of license and security.
         (a)   Upon the suspension or revocation of an adult establishment
license pursuant to this chapter, the Adult Use Commissioner shall take custody
of the suspended or revoked license and such part or all of the bond or other
security submitted for the adult entertainment establishment pursuant to §
114.027(B) of this chapter shall be forfeited as the Adult Use Commissioner
shall deem necessary to reimburse the village for the costs associated with the
proceedings related to the suspension or revocation at issue.
         (b)   Such bond or other security shall be replenished to equal the
amount required pursuant to §
114.027(B) of this chapter prior to the issuance of any new adult establishment
license for the licensed premises or for the reinstatement of any suspended
license.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
REGULATIONS AND CONDITIONS
FOR ALL USES
§ 114.045 GENERAL COMPLIANCE.
   All licensed premises and adult entertainment establishments shall comply
with the provisions of this chapter; all other applicable village ordinances,
resolutions, rules, regulations and all other applicable federal, state and
local laws.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.046 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No adult entertainment establishment shall be open for business at any time
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on any weekday or Saturday. No
adult entertainment establishment shall be open for business at any time on any
Sunday or any legal state or federal holiday.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.047 ANIMALS.
   No animals, except only seeing-eye dogs required to assist the blind, shall
be permitted at any time or in any adult entertainment establishment or
licensed premises.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.048 RESTROOMS.
   All restrooms in adult entertainment establishments shall be equipped with
standard toilets, sinks and other traditional lavatory facilities. No adult
materials or live performances shall be provided or allowed at any time in the
restrooms or any adult entertainment establishment. Separate male and female
restrooms shall be provided for and used by adult establishment employees and
adult establishment patrons.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.049 RESTRICTED ACCESS.
   (A)   No adult establishment patron shall be permitted at any time to enter
into any of the non- public portions of any adult entertainment establishment,
including specifically, but without limitation, any storage areas or dressing
or other rooms provided for the benefit of adult entertainment employees.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to persons delivering goods and
materials, food and beverages, or performing maintenance or repairs to the
licensed premises; provided, however, that, any such persons shall remain such
non-public areas only for the purposes and to the extent and time necessary to
perform their job duties.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.050 SPECIFIC PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No adult establishment patron or any other person at any adult
entertainment establishment, other than an adult establishment employee
employed to provide adult entertainment in accordance with the regulations in
this chapter, shall appear, be present or perform while nude or semi-nude.
   (B)   No adult establishment employee or any other person at any adult
entertainment establishment shall perform or conduct any specified sexual
activity with or for any adult establishment patron or any other adult
establishment shall perform or conduct any specified sexual activity with or
for any adult establishment employee or any other adult establishment patron or
any other person.
   (C)   Straddle dances shall be prohibited at all adult entertainment
establishments.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.051 EXTERIOR DISPLAY.
   No adult entertainment establishment shall be maintained or operated in any
manner that causes, creates or allows public viewing of any adult material, or
any entertainment depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, from any sidewalk, public or private
right-of- way or any property other than the lot on which the licensed premises
is located. No portion of the exterior of the adult entertainment establishment
shall utilize or contain any flashing lights, search lights or spotlights, or
any other similar lighting systems, or any words lettering, photographs,
silhouettes, drawings or pictorial §
114.052 of this chapter with regard to signs. This section shall apply: to any
advertisement, display, promotional material, decoration or sign; to any
performance or show; and to any window, door or other opening.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.052 SIGNAGE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   All signs for adult entertainment establishments shall be flat wall
signs. The maximum allowable sign area shall be one square foot of sign area
per foot of lot frontage on a street, but in no event exceeding 32 square feet.
The maximum number of signs shall be one per lot frontage. Signs otherwise
permitted pursuant to this chapter shall contain only:
      (1)   The name of the adult entertainment establishment; and/or
      (2)   The specified type of adult entertainment establishment conducted
on the licensed premises.
   (B)   Temporary signage shall not be permitted in connection with any adult
entertainment establishment.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.053 NOISE.
   No loudspeakers or sound equipment audible beyond the licensed premises
shall be used at any time.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.054 GAMBLING AND RELATED DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   No adult entertainment establishment shall contain any video, pinball, slot,
bagatelle, pigeon- hole, pool or any other games, machines, tables or
implements.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.055 MANAGER’S STATION.
   Each adult entertainment establishment shall have one or more managers
stations. The interior of each adult entertainment establishment shall be
configured in such a manner that there is a direct and substantially
unobstructed view from at least one manager’s station to every part of each
area, except restrooms, of the establishment to which any adult establishment
patron is permitted access for any purpose.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.056 ALCOHOL PROHIBITION.
   No alcoholic liquor of any kind shall be sold, used, consumed or possessed
at any time on any licensed premises or at any adult entertainment
establishment that provides adult establishment employees that appear, are
present or perform while nude.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
REGULATIONS AND CONDITIONS FOR SPECIFIC USES
§ 114.070 ADULT BOOTHS.
   (A)   Prohibited, except in adult stores. Adult booths shall be prohibited
in all adult entertainment establishments, except adult stores.
   (B)   Occupancy and prohibited acts. Only one individual shall occupy an
adult booth at any one time.
   (C)   Open booth requirement. There shall be a permanently open and
unobstructed entranceway for each adult booth and for the entranceway from the
area of the adult store that provides other adult materials to the area of the
adult store containing the adult booths. Each of these entranceways shall not
be capable of being closed or obstructed, entirely or partially, by any door,
curtain, partition, drapes or any other obstruction whatsoever that would be
capable of wholly or partially obscuring the area of the adult store containing
the adult booths or any person situated in an adult booth. It shall be unlawful
to install adult booths within an adult entertainment establishment for the
purpose of providing secluded viewing of adult materials or live performances.
   (D)   Aisle required. There shall be one continuous lighted main aisle along
side the adult booths provided in any adult store. Each person situated in a
booth shall be visible at all times from the aisle.
   (E)   Holes prohibited. Except for the open booth entranceway, the walls and
partitions of each adult booth shall be constructed and maintained of solid
walls or partitions without any holes or openings whatsoever.
   (F)   Signage. A sign shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entranceway to each adult booth that states:
      (1)   Only one person is allowed in an adult booth at any one time;
      (2)   It is unlawful to engage in any specified sexual activities while
in an adult booth; and
      (3)   It is unlawful to damage or deface any portion of an adult booth.
   (G)   Age limitations.
      (1)   No adult establishment employee or adult establishment patron at an
adult booth or a licensed premises that includes an adult booth shall be under
the age of 18.
      (2)   No person under the age of 18 shall be admitted to any adult booth
or any licensed adult entertainment establishment with an adult booth.
      (3)   No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed or permitted to
remain at any adult store.
      (4)   No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed or permitted to
purchase or receive adult material at any adult store or at any adult store
within any licensed adult entertainment establishment.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.071 ADULT CABARETS.
   (A)   Performance area. The performance area of an adult cabaret shall be
limited to one or more stages or platforms permanently anchored to the floor (a
“cabaret stage”). Each cabaret stage shall be at least 18 inches in elevation
above the level of the patron seating areas. Each cabaret stage shall be
separated by a distance of at least eight feet from all areas of the premises
to which adult entertainment patrons have access. A continuous barrier at least
three feet in height and located at least eight feet from all points of each
cabaret stage shall separate each cabaret stage from all patron seating areas.
The barrier shall consist of horizontal or vertical members spaced no more than
nine inches apart and nine inches from the floor or the walls to which it is
attached.
   (B)   Lighting. Sufficient lighting shall be provided and equally
distributed throughout the public areas of the adult cabaret so that all
objects are plainly visible at all times. A minimum lighting level of not less
than 30 lux horizontal, measured at 30 inches from the floor and on ten-foot
centers shall be maintained at all times for all areas of the adult cabaret
where adult establishment patrons are admitted.
   (C)   Tipping.
      (1)   (a)   No tip or gratuity from any adult establishment patron may be
offered or accepted for any performance by an adult establishment employee on
any adult cabaret stage at any time prior to the completion of any such
performance.
         (b)   No adult establishment patron shall offer, and no adult
establishment employee having performed on any cabaret stage shall accept, any
form of tip or gratuity offered directly to the employee by the adult
establishment patron.
      (2)   Rather, following completion of a performance, all tips and
gratuities, to adult establishment employees performing on any cabaret stage
shall be placed into a receptacle provided for receipt of such tips and
gratuities by the adult entertainment establishment.
   (D)   Notice of select rules. A sign at least two feet by two feet, with
letters at least one inch high shall be conspicuously displayed on or adjacent
to every cabaret stage stating the following:
 
THIS ADULT CABARET IS REGULATED BY THE VILLAGE OF HANNA CITY UNDER THESE
REGULATIONS, I AM:
 
1.   NOT PERMITTED TO ENGAGE IN ANY TYPE OF SEXUAL ACTIVITY.
2.   NOT PERMITTED TO ACCEPT TIPS OR GRATUITIES FOR ANY PERFORMANCE UNTIL AFTER
COMPLETION OF THE PERFORMANCE.
3.   NOT PERMITTED TO ACCEPT ANY TIPS DIRECTLY FROM PATRONS EVEN AFTER COMPLETION
OF THE PERFORMANCE. ANY SUCH TIPS MUST BE PLACED INTO THE RECEPTACLE PROVIDED BY
MANAGEMENT.
 
   (E)   Age limitations.
      (1)   No adult establishment employee or adult establishment patron at an
adult cabaret or a licensed premises used for an adult cabaret shall be under
the age of 21.
      (2)   No person under the age of 21 shall be admitted to any adult
cabaret or to any licensed adult entertainment establishment.
      (3)   No person under the age of 21 shall be allowed or permitted to
remain at any adult cabaret.
      (4)   No person under the age of 21 shall be allowed or permitted to
purchase or receive, whether for consideration or not, any adult material or
other goods or services at or from any adult cabaret or any licensed premises
used for an adult cabaret.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.072 ADULT STORES.
   (A)   Windows and signs.
      (1)   Window areas for adult stores shall not be covered or obstructed in
any way.
      (2)   No signs or other obstructions shall be placed in the windows.
   (B)   Age limitations.
      (1)   No adult establishment employee or adult establishment patron at an
adult cabaret or a licensed premises used for an adult cabaret shall be under
the age of 21.
      (2)   No person under the age of 21 shall be admitted to any adult
cabaret or to any licensed adult entertainment establishment.
      (3)   No person under the age of 21 shall be allowed or permitted to
remain at any adult cabaret or any licensed adult entertainment establishment
with an adult cabaret.
      (4)   No person under the age of 21 shall be allowed or permitted to
purchase or receive, whether for consideration or not, any adult material or
other goods or services at or from any adult cabaret or any licensed premises
used for an adult cabaret.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.073 ADULT THEATERS.
   (A)   Seating. Each adult theater shall provide seating only in individual
chairs with arms or in seats separated from each other by immovable arms and
not on couches, benches or any other multiple person seating structures. The
number of seats shall equal the maximum number of persons who may occupy the
adult theater.
   (B)   Aisle. Each adult theater shall have a continuous main aisle alongside
the seating area in order that each person seated in the adult theater shall be
visible from the aisle at all times.
   (C)   Sign. Each adult theater shall have a sign posted in a conspicuous
place at or near each entranceway to the auditorium or similar area that lists
the maximum number of persons who may occupy the auditorium area, which number
shall not exceed the number of seats in the auditorium area.
   (D)   Age limitations.
      (1)   No adult establishment employee or adult establishment patron at an
adult cabaret or a licensed premises used for an adult cabaret shall be under
the age of 21.
      (2)   No person under the age of 21 shall be admitted to any adult
cabaret or to any licensed adult entertainment establishment with an adult
theater.
      (3)   No person under the age of 21 shall be allowed or permitted to
remain at any adult theater or at any licensed adult entertainment
establishment with an adult theater.
      (4)   No person under the age of 21 shall be allowed or permitted to
purchase or receive, whether for consideration or not, any adult material or
other goods or services at or from any adult cabaret or any licensed premises
used for an adult cabaret.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, neglects, refuses to comply with, or assists or
participates in any way in the violation of, any of the provisions or
requirements of this chapter or of any of the provisions or requirements of any
adult establishment license, shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99 for each such violation. Each day such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. The Adult Use Commissioner shall give written
notice to any such person of any such violation and the fine imposed by serving
a citation in person or by certified U.S. mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested, addressed to the licensee’s address as set forth in the licensee’s
application.
(Ord. 13-05-06, passed - -2013)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW
      
131.   UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES/DRONES
      
132.   GAMBLING
      
133.   SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Established; parental responsibility
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 ESTABLISHED; PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person less than 17 years of age to be
present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, highway or
other public place or way at the following times:
      (1)   For persons less than 13 years of age, between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. the following day on any day of the week; and
      (2)   For persons at least 13 years of age, but not yet 17 years of age:
         (a)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. on the following day; and
         (b)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Saturday and Sunday.
   (B)   It is a defense to a violation under this section that the child
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, legal guardian, custodian,
sibling, stepbrother or stepsister at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult at least 21 years of age approved by the
child’s parent, guardian or custodian;
      (3)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Employment which the laws of this state authorize a person less
than 17 years of age to perform;
         (b)   A school recreational activity;
         (c)   A religious event;
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
Article 1, Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the state, or both; and/
or
         (f)   An activity conducted by a non-profit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training or other care under the
supervision of one or more adult.
   (C)   (1)   A citation for violation of division (A) above may be issued by
a police officer only if he or she reasonably believes that a violation has
occurred and none of the defenses enumerated in division (B) above apply.
      (2)   It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian, custodian or other
person to knowingly permit a person in his or her custody or control to violate
provisions of division (A) above. It shall be a rebuttable presumption that a
person has violated this section if someone under 17 years of age of whom such
person has custody or control is present upon any public assembly, building,
business, street or highway, or other public place or public way in violation
of division (A) above, and none of the defenses enumerated in division (B)
above apply.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of §
130.99(C) shall be fined as set by the Board of Trustees from time to time for
the first violation in any 12-month period; as set by the Board of Trustees
from time to time for a second violation in any 12-month period; and as set by
the Board of Trustees from time to time for a third or subsequent violation in
any 12-month period.
CHAPTER 131: UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES/DRONES
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Prohibited activities
   
131.03   Exceptions and non-applicability
   
131.04   Certain model aircraft exempted
   
131.05   Permit required; fee
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMAGE. A record of thermal, infrared, ultraviolet, visible light or other
electromagnetic waves; sound waves; odors; or other physical phenomena which
captures conditions existing on or about real property or an individual located
on that property.
   IMAGING DEVICE. A mechanical, digital or electronic viewing device; still
camera; camcorder; motion picture camera; or any other instrument, equipment or
format capable of recording, storing or transmitting an image.
   UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE (UAV). An unmanned aircraft that is motorized, flown
by remote/UAS and operated without the possibility of direct human intervention
from within or on the aircraft.
   UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM (UAS). An unmanned aircraft vehicle and associated
elements (including communication links and the components that control the
UAV) that are required for the pilot in command to operate safely and
efficiently in the national airspace system.
(Ord. 15-09-02, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 131.02 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if the person uses a UAV/UAS to
intentionally or surreptitiously film, audiotape, record or intrude, physically
or otherwise, upon the solitude or seclusion of another or his or her private
affairs or concerns, if the intrusion would be offensive to a reasonable person
and is without consent. The act shall be considered intentional if the operator
fails to terminate the flight or intrusion once it is known to the operator
that an invasion of privacy has taken place. An intrusion can take place either
by violating the airspace directly above private property or by filming,
recording or taping activities on private property from a distance.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person flies a UAV over the private
property of another individual or entity without express permission.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if the person outfits a UAV with a weapon
and flies that UAV/UAS with the intent to threaten or intimidate the other
individual(s).
   (D)   A person commits an offense if the person flies a UAV over public
property and roadways without complying with the requirements set forth in §
131.05 of this chapter and obtaining the required license from the village.
   (E)   A person commits an offense if the person operates a UAV in or around
traffic.
   (F)   A person commits an offense if the person flies a UAV within 100 yards
of a public gathering, such as, but not limited to, a parade, concert, festival
or commemorative gathering without complying with the requirements set forth in
§
131.03 of this chapter and the required licenses from the village.
   (G)   A person commits an offense if the person utilizes a UAV for the
purposes of hunting or fishing.
   (H)   A person commits an offense if the person operates a UAV in a reckless
manner that endangers another person or property.
   (I)   A person other than the operator landing the UAV may not bring down an
UAV by any means (e.g., handgun, rifle, arrow, slingshot, any object used as a
missile or any electrical device that dismantles the UAV) whether it is flown
over private or public property.
   (J)   With the exceptions of taking off and landing, the UAV shall not be
flown over 400 feet or under 20 feet above the ground.
   (K)   A person commits an offense if the person flies a UAV within 100 yards
of fire, police or emergency personnel while in performance of their duties.
(Ord. 15-09-02, passed 9-15-2015) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 EXCEPTIONS AND NON- APPLICABILITY.
   It is lawful to use a UAV/UAS within the village to photograph, film,
audiotape or otherwise record an individual or individuals acting on private
property where the following is true of the use:
   (A)   If the image is captured by the village or an individual or entity
under contract with the village for the purposes of resource management;
   (B)   If the image is made for the monitoring, operation and maintenance of
utilities, telecom- munication or transportation infrastructure for the purpose
of maintaining the reliability and integrity of the utility, telecommunication
or transportation system or to determine if repairs to the system are
necessary;
   (C)   If law enforcement is using the UAV/UAS to execute a valid search
warrant;
   (D)   If law enforcement is in hot pursuit of a suspect;
   (E)   If law enforcement is acting under exigent circumstances, such that a
search warrant would not be required;
   (F)   If the UAV/UAS is being used to document a crime scene where a felony
offense has been committed;
   (G)   If the UAV/UAS is being used to document an accident scene as part of
an investigation;
   (H)   If the UAV/UAS is being used to conduct a search for a lost, missing
or abducted person;
   (I)   If the image is made for an artistic or journalistic purpose, not
otherwise prohibited by state or federal law;
   (J)   If the image is made of a public or private event with the express
written consent of the event organizer and attendees are notified that a
recording may occur and the UAV is not flown in airspace that could endanger
any person;
   (K)   If the UAV/UAS is being used by a fire department in response to an
emergency or for search and rescue or at request and under control of a fire
department;
   (L)   If the UAV/UAS is being used by a person or an entity engaged in a
business or profession licensed by the state, or by an agent, employee or
contractor thereof to perform reasonable tasks within the scope of practice or
activities permitted under such person’s or entity’s license. However, this
exception does not apply to a profession in which the licensee’s authorized
scope of practice includes obtaining information about the identity, habits,
conduct, movements whereabouts, affiliations, associations, transactions,
reputation or character of any society, person or group of persons;
   (M)   If the UAV/UAS is being used for aerial mapping in compliance with
Federal Aviation Administration regulations; and/or
   (N)   If the UAV/UAS is being used to deliver cargo in compliance with
Federal Aviation Administration regulations.
(Ord. 15-09-02, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 131.04 CERTAIN MODEL AIRCRAFT EXEMPTED.
   Section
131.02(D), (F) and (J) of this chapter shall not apply if the UAV/UAS being
flown is a model fixed-winged aircraft or helicopter, flown for hobby and
recreational purposes, and is flown in compliance with FAA’s safety guidelines
which are as follows:
   (A)   Fly below 400 feet and remain clear of surrounding obstacle;
   (B)   Keep the aircraft within visual line of sight at all times;
   (C)   Remain well clear of and do not interfere with manned aircraft
operations;
   (D)   Don’t fly within five miles of an airport unless you contact the
airport and control tower before flying;
   (E)   Don’t fly near people or stadiums;
   (F)   Don’t fly an aircraft that weighs more than 55 pounds; and
   (G)   Don’t be careless or reckless with the unmanned aircraft.
(Ord. 15-09-02, passed 9-15-2015)
Editor’s note:
   See § 336 of Pub. Law No. 112-95, Special Rule for Model Aircraft.
§ 131.05 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   A private individual or business wishing to operate an UAV in the
proximity of a public or private event or a property or properties that he, she
or it does not own for commercial or private purposes (excluding the purposes
outlawed by this chapter or state or federal law) shall:
      (1)   Complete the permit application;
      (2)   Provide proof of insurance that covers the operation of a UAV in
the amount as set by the Board of Trustees from time to time for property
damage, personal injury and general liability per occurrence; and
      (3)   Pay an annual application/permit fee, as set by the Board of
Trustees from time to time.
   (B)   Before operating a UAV, the operator must obtain the express written
consent of the event organizer or properly owner and/or resident and, if
applicable, the attendees must be notified that a recording may occur.
(Ord. 15-09-02, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions set forth in §
131.02 of this chapter will be subject to a maximum fine as set forth in §
10.99, per each violation.
(Ord. 15-09-02, passed 9-15-2015)
CHAPTER 132: GAMBLING
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 22-10-
02, adopted 10-4-2022). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below
when the ordinance is codified.
Section
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Restricted gambling
   
132.03   Keeping a gambling place
   
132.04   Seizure of gambling devices and gambling funds
§ 132.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machines or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill,
or upon the action of which, money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place, unless said device meets
the requirements set forth in §
132.02(D) of this chapter. A GAMBLING DEVICE does not include the following, as
more specifically defined in 720 ILCS 5/28-2(a)(1) through (a)(4):
      (1)   Coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical devices;
      (2)   Vending machines;
      (3)   Crane games; and
      (4)   Redemption machines.
   LOTTERY. Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed
by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale or some other name.
   POLICY GAME. Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall, in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery, entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property or evidence of debt.
(2010 Code, § 135.01) (Ord. 12-08-01, passed - -2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/28-2
§ 132.02 RESTRICTED GAMBLING.
   (A)   A person commits gambling when, within the corporate limits of the
village, he or she:
      (1)   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing of value,
unless excepted in division (B) below;
      (2)   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest or any political
nomination, appoint- ment or election;
      (3)   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures or distributes any gambling
device;
      (4)   Contracts to have or give himself, herself or another the option to
buy or sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any grain or other
commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, as described in
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(4);
      (5)   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered, or
knowingly possesses any money which he or she has received in the courses of a
bet or wager;
      (6)   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or
chance, political nomination, appointment or election;
      (7)   Sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell or
transfers any ticket or share for any lottery;
      (8)   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record, document or
other similar device;
      (9)   Knowingly drafts, prints or publishes any lottery ticket or share,
or any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state or foreign
government;
      (10)   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state; or
      (11)   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information; except that, nothing in this division (A)(11)
prohibits transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting
of sporting events or contests.
   (B)   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be convicted
of gambling:
      (1)   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance
including, without limitation, contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life or
health or accident insurance;
      (2)   Offers of prizes, awards or compensation to the actual contestants
in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest;
      (3)   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of the state;
      (4)   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefore and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside the state when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law;
      (5)   The game commonly known as “bingo”, when conducted in accordance
with 230 ILCS 25/1 et seq.;
      (6)   Lotteries, when conducted by the state in accordance with 20 ILCS
1605/1 et seq.;
      (7)   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used, nor
intended to be used, in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. For the purpose of this division (B)(7), an ANTIQUE
SLOT MACHINE is one manufactured 25 years ago or earlier;
      (8)   Raffles, when conducted in accordance with 230 ILCS 15/1 et seq.;
      (9)   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with 230 ILCS 30/1 et
seq.;
      (10)   Pull tabs and jar games when conducted under 230 ILCS 20/1 et
seq.; and
      (11)   Gambling games conducted on riverboats when authorized under 230
ILCS 10/1 et seq.
   (C)   In prosecutions under division (A) above, circumstantial evidence
shall have the same validity and weight as in any criminal prosecution.
   (D)   The following activity shall not be considered “gambling”, as set
forth in division (A) above: use of any device for which a license or permit
has been issued by the state’s Gaming Board, pursuant to the state’s Video
Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., so long as such device is conducted in
compliance with all the requirements of said act and all rules and regulations
of the state’s Gaming Board. A device that meets the requirements of this
section shall not be defined as a “gambling device”, pursuant to §
132.01 of this chapter.
   (E)   There is hereby imposed a license fee as set by the Board of Trustees
from time to time, payable to the village annually, on any device within the
village for which a license or permit has been issued by the state’s Gaming
Board, pursuant to the state’s Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., which
fee shall be paid by the owner of the operation in which the licensed or
permitted device is located. Said per- year payment shall be due on the first
day the said device is placed into service and on the anniversary of said
license for each year thereafter that the device continues in service. A
license will issue upon a showing of the appropriate state licenses or permits
and must be displayed at the licensed premises.
   (F)   Any premises or property which uses a device that meets the
requirements of this section shall not be considered a “gambling place”,
pursuant to §
132.03 of this chapter, and such device or funds, money or other thing of value
integrally related to the use of such device shall not be subject to seizure,
confiscation or destruction by village authorities pursuant to §
132.04 of this chapter.
(2010 Code, § 135.02) (Ord. 12-08-01, passed - -2012)
§ 132.03 KEEPING A GAMBLING PLACE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a GAMBLING PLACE is any real estate,
vehicle, boat or any other property whatsoever used for the purposes of
gambling. No person shall knowingly permit any premises or property owned or
occupied by him or her or under his or her control to be used as a gambling
place.
   (B)   When any premises is determined by the circuit court to be a gambling
place:
      (1)   The premises is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be
proceeded against as such; and
      (2)   The premises of any person who knowingly permits thereon a
violation of any section of this chapter shall be held liable for and may be
sold to pay any unsatisfied judgment that may be recovered and any unsatisfied
fine that may be levied under any section of this chapter.
(2010 Code, § 135.03) (Ord. 12-08-01, passed - -2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/28-3
§ 132.04 SEIZURE OF GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS.
   (A)   Every device designed for gambling which is incapable of lawful use or
every device used unlawfully for gambling shall be considered a gambling device
and shall be subject to seizure, confiscation and destruction by village
authorities. As used in this section, a GAMBLING DEVICE includes any slot
machine and includes any machine or device constructed for the reception of
money or other thing of value and so constructed as to return or cause someone
to return on chance to the player thereof money, property or a right to receive
money or property. With the exception of any device designed for gambling which
is incapable of lawful use, no gambling device shall be forfeited or destroyed
unless an individual with a property interest in the device knows of the
unlawful use thereof.
   (B)   Every gambling device shall be seized and forfeited as contraband to
the county wherein the seizure occurs. Any money or other thing of value
integrally related to acts of gambling shall be seized and forfeited as
contraband to the county wherein the seizure occurs.
   (C)   Devices or funds, money or other things of value which are integrally
related to the use of devices that meet the requirements set forth in §
132.02(D) of this chapter are not subject to seizure, confiscation or
destruction by village authorities.
(2010 Code, § 135.04) (Ord. 12-08-01, passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/28-5(a), (b)
CHAPTER 133: SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Sale or delivery
   
133.03   Possession prohibited
   
133.04   Use prohibited
   
133.05   List of substances
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A PRODUCT CONTAINING A SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUG. Any product containing a
synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/ hallucinogen, as those terms
are defined herein such as, but not limited to, the examples of brand names or
identifiers listed on Exhibit “A” attached to the ordinance codified herein and
incorporated herein.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID. Any laboratory- created compound that functions
similar to the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC),
including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material,
compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including isomers,
esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers) containing a cannabinoid receptor
agonist, such as:
      (1)   JWH-007 (1-pentyl-2-methyl-3-(1- naphthoyl)indole);
      (2)   JWH-015 ((2-MethyM-propyl-1H-indol- 3-y1)-1-naphthalenylmethanone);
      (3)   JWH-018 (1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole);
      (4)   JWH-019 (l-hexyl-3-(naphthalen-1-oyl) indole);
      (5)   JWH-073 (naphthalen-l-yl-(1- butylindol-3-yl)methanone);
      (6)   JWH-081 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl- (1-pentylindol-3-yl)methanone);
      (7)   JWH-098 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl- (1-pentyl-2-methylindol-3-
yl)methanone);
      (8)   JWH-122 (1-Penryl-3-(4-meihyl-1- naphthoyl)indole);
      (9)   JWH-164 (7-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1 -pentylindol-3-yl)methanone;
      (10)   JWH-200 (1-(2-morpholin-4-ylethyl) indol-3-yl)-naphthalen-1-
ylmethanone);
      (11)   JWH-203 (2-(2-chlorophenyl)-1-(1- pentylindol-3-yl)ethanone;
      (12)   JWH-210 (4-ethylnaphthalen-1-yl-(1- pentylindol-3-yl)inethanone;
      (13)   JWH-250 (1-penty 1-3-(2-methoxy- phenylacetyl)indole);
      (14)   JWH-251 (1-pentyl-3-(2-methyl-phen- ylacetyl)indole);
      (15)   JWH-398 (1-pentyl-3-(4-chloro-1- naphthoyl)indole);
      (16)   HU-210((6aR510aR)-9- (Hydroxymethyl)-6)6-dimethyl-3-(2-
methy)octan-2- yl)-6a,7,10, 10a-tetrahydrobenzo [cjchromen-1-ol)
      (17)   HU-211 ((6aS,10aS)-9-(Hydroxy- methyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2-
methylootan-2-yl)-6a,7,10, 10a-tetrahydrobenzo (cjchromen-1-ol)
      (18)   HU-308 ([(1R, 2R, 5R)-2-[2,6- dimethoxy-4-(2-methyloctan-2-
yl)phenyl]-7,7- dimethyl-4-bicyclo[3.1.1]hept-3-enyl] methanol);
      (19)   HU-331 ((3-hydroxy-2-[(1R-6R)-3- methyl-6-(l-methylethenyl)-2-
cyclohexen-1-yl]-5- pentyl-2,5~cyclohexadiene-1,4-dione);
      (20)   CP 55,940 (2-[(1R, 2R, 5R)-5-hydroxy- 2-(3-hydroxypropyl)
cyclohexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan-2- yl)phenol);
      (21)   CP 47,497 (2-[(1R, 3S)-3- hydroxycyclohexylj-5-(2-methyloctan-2-
yl)phenol) and its homologues;
      (22)   WIN 55,212-2 ((R)-(+)-[2, 3-Dihydro- 5-methyl-3-(4-
morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo[1, 2,3-de)- 1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl-1-
nepthalenyl)methanone);
      (23)   RCS-4 ((4-methoxyphenyl)(1-pentyl- 1H-indol-3-yl)methanone); and
      (24)   RCS-8 (1-(1-(2-cyclohexylethyl)-1H- indol-3-yl)-2-(2-
methoxyphenyl)ethanone).
   SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELIC/HALLUCINO- GEN. Any compound that mimics the effects
of any federally controlled Schedule I substance, including, but not limited
to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture,
preparation, substance and their analog (including salts, isomers, esters,
ethers and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a psychedelic/
hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system and/or brain, such as:
      (1)   2-(2,5-dimemoxy-4-ethylphenyl) ethanamine (2C-E);
      (2)   2-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-methylphenyl) ethanamine (2C-D);
      (3)   2-(4-chloro-2,5-dimelhoxy- phenyl)ethanamine (2C-C);
      (4)   2-(4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-I);
      (5)   2-(4-(ethylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-T-2);
      (6)   2-(4-(isopropylthio)-2,5-dimethoxy- phenyl)ethanamine (2C-T-4);
      (7)   2-(2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-H);
      (8)   2-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-nitro-phenyl) ethanamine (2C-N); and
      (9)   2-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-(n)-propylphenyl) ethanamine (2C-P).
   SYNTHETIC STIMULANT. Any compound that mimics the effects of any federally
controlled Schedule I substance such as cathinone, methcathinone, MDMA and
MDEA, including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic
material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including
salts, isomers and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a
stimulant effect on the central nervous system, such as:
      (1)   3-fluoromethcathinone;
      (2)   4-fluoromethcathinone (other name: flephedrone);
      (3)   3,4-methylenedioxymethcathinone (other name: methylone, MDMC);
      (4)   3,4-methylenedioxypyrovalerone (other name: MDPV);
      (5)   4-methylmethcathinon (other names: mephedrone, 4-MMC);
      (6)   4-methoxymethcathinone (other names: methedrone, bk-PMMA, PMMC);
      (7)   4-ethylmethcathinone (other name: 4- EMC);
      (8)   Ethcathinone;
      (9)   Beta-keto-N-methylbenzodioxyoiyl propyl amine (other names:
butylone, bk-MBDB);
      (10)   Napthylpyrovalerone (other names: naphyrone, NRG-1);
      (11)   N,N-dimethylcathinone (other name: metamlepramone);
      (12)   Alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: alpha-PPP);
      (13)   4-methoxy-alpha-pyrrolidino- propiophenone (other name: MOPPP);
      (14)   4-methylenedioxy-alpha-pyr- rolidinopropiophenone (other name:
MDPPP);
      (15)   Alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone (other name: alpha-PVP);
      (16)   6,7-kihydro-5H-indeno(5,6-d)-1,3- dioxal-6-amine) (other name:
MDAI); and
      (17)   Any compound that is structurally derived from 2-amino-1-phenyl-1-
propanone by modification or substitution in any of the following ways:
         (a)   In the phenyl ring to any extent with alkyl, alkoxy,
alkylenedioxy, haloalkyl or halide substituents, whether or not further
substituted in the phenyl ring by one or more other univalent substituents;
         (b)   At the 3-position with an alkyl substituent;
         (c)   At the nitrogen atom with alkyl, dialkyl, benzyl or
methoxybenzyl groups; or
         (d)   By inclusion of the nitrogen atom in a cyclic structure.
(Ord. 12-02-02, passed - -2012)
§ 133.02 SALE OR DELIVERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, LLC or other legal
entity to sell, offer for sale, advertise, display or deliver any product
containing a synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen.
(Ord. 12-02-02, passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 POSSESSION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess a product
containing a synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen.
(Ord. 12-02-02, passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 USE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of a synthetic
cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen.
(Ord. 12-02-02, passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 LIST OF SUBSTANCES.
   The names given to the alternative substances, attached to the ordinance
codified herein as “Exhibit A”, is hereby adopted and approved.
(Ord. 12-02-02, passed - -2012)
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm, corporation, LLC or other legal entity found
to be in violation of §
133.02 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine as set forth in §
10.99 for each offense thereof; and each violation of this chapter, or every
day a violation continues to exist, shall constitute a new and separate
violation.
      (2)   Any instance where any person, firm, corporation, LLC or other
legal entity is found to be in violation of §
133.02 of this chapter, and the incident occurs on the premises of any
establishment holding a valid liquor license issued by the village and said
person, firm, corporation, LLC or other legal entity is either the holder of,
or an employee of, a person or corporation holding the valid liquor license
shall cause the liquor license of said establishment to be suspended for a
period of not more than 30 days and the licensee shall be subject to a fine of
$1,000. Any subsequent violation shall render revocation of said liquor license
and a fine of $1,500, pursuant to the state’s Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235
ILCS 5/7-5).
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §§
133.03 or
133.04 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine as set forth in §
10.99 for each violation thereafter; and each violation of this chapter, or
everyday a violation continues to exist, shall constitute a new and separate
violation.
(Ord. 12-02-02, passed - -2012)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   LAND USE PLAN
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Swimming Pools
   
150.01   Definitions
   
150.02   Permit requirements
   
150.03   Drawings and plans to be submitted
   
150.04   Location restrictions
   
150.05   Swimming pool fences
   
150.06   Electrical requirements
   
150.07   Pools to be kept safe and sanitary
   
150.08   Inspection requirements
   
150.09   Non-conforming structures
   
150.10   Enforcement
   
150.11   Variations
Vacant and Foreclosed Property    Registration Requirement
   
150.25   Definitions
   
150.26   Registration requirement
   
150.27   Registration of property subject to foreclosure
   
150.28   Registration of vacant property
   
150.29   Registration fee
   
150.30   Changes in registration information
   
150.31   Transfer of registrable property
   
150.32   Notice of determination of registrable property
   
150.33   Maintenance of registrable property
   
150.34   Inspection; enforcement
   
150.35   Records and reports
   
150.36   Retention of property registration company
   
150.37   Violations; penalties
   
150.38   Appeals
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 150.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUVENILE POOL. A receptacle for water or an artificial pool of water having
a depth of less than two feet, intended for the purpose of immersion or partial
immersion therein of human beings.
   PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOL. A swimming pool maintained by an
individual primarily for the sole use of his or her household and guests and
not for the purpose of profit or in connection with any business operated for
profit.
   PUBLIC SWIMMING POOL. A swimming pool maintained by individuals for the use
of more than one household, maintained by a club for the use of its members,
maintained by a business for profit or maintained by a school, park district,
municipality or other public not-for-profit organizations.
   SWIMMING POOL. A receptacle for water, or an artificial pool of water having
a depth at any point of more than two feet, intended for the purpose of
immersion or partial immersion therein of human beings, and including all
appurtenant equipment constructed, installed and maintained in or above the
ground inside or outside of a building.
(2010 Code, § 99.01)
§ 150.02 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to proceed with the construction, installation,
enlargement or alteration of any swimming pool unless permits shall have been
obtained from the village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to proceed with the construction, installation,
enlargement or alteration of any public swimming pool within the village unless
any required permits shall first have also been obtained from the state.
   (C)   Juvenile pools shall require no permit.
(2010 Code, § 99.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03 DRAWINGS AND PLANS TO BE SUBMITTED.
   Each application for a swimming pool permit shall be accompanied by a permit
fee as set by the Board of Trustees from time to time and by a set of plans or
drawings which shall be drawn to scale. All distances and dimensions shall be
accurately figured, and drawings shall be made explicit and complete, showing
the lot lines, distance from the residence and location of the fence and the
pool walk. The application shall contain information pertaining to the swimming
pool, walk and fence construction, electrical system and all relevant
appurtenances pertaining to the pool, sufficient to show whether the swimming
pool will compliance with this subchapter.
(2010 Code, § 99.03)
§ 150.04 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Private residential swimming pools shall be permitted only in areas
zoned single-family residential under
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances. No portion of the pool shall be located
less than four feet from a side or rear lot line. Pools and appurtenant
equipment shall not be permitted in any front yard.
   (B)   Public swimming pools shall be permitted in areas zoned residential
and business under
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances; except that, any public swimming pool
operated for the purpose of profit or operated in connection with a business
operated for profit shall not be operated in a single-family residential zone.
No portion of a public swimming pool or its appurtenant equipment shall be
located less than 15 feet from a side or rear lot line. Public swimming pools
shall not be located in a front yard.
(2010 Code, § 99.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.05 SWIMMING POOL FENCES.
   (A)   A swimming pool shall be completely enclosed by a fence erected along
the periphery of the swimming pool and any immediately adjacent walk, deck or
terrace area appurtenant to the swimming pool. The fence shall be at least six
feet in height and shall be designed and constructed to render the swimming
pool inaccessible to children under six years of age. Each fence shall be
equipped with a gate with self-closing and self-latching devices placed at the
top of the gate. All swimming pool fence gates shall be closed and locked when
the swimming pool is not in use.
   (B)   Swimming pools shall be exempt from the requirements of division (A)
above if they are above ground level in whole or in part. A barrier, which may
include the sides of the pool structure, not less than six feet in height,
shall completely surround the pool, with integral guards or rails and a means
of egress. Persons with such exempt pools shall ensure than ladders and other
means of ingress or egress are kept removed or locked when the swimming pools
are not in use. All swimming pool fence gates shall be closed and locked when
the swimming pool is not in use.
(2010 Code, § 99.05) (Ord. 17-06-02, passed 6-6-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.06 ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Where electrical conductors are adjacent to a swimming pool or juvenile
pool, they shall have proper insulation and shall be ground fault protected. No
overhead electrical wires shall be permitted within 15 feet of a swimming pool.
(2010 Code, § 99.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.07 POOLS TO BE KEPT SAFE AND SANITARY.
   Swimming pools and juvenile pools shall be maintained in a clean, safe and
sanitary condition.
(2010 Code, § 99.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.08 INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   The officer charged under
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances with enforcement may, upon completion of
construction of a pool or upon receipt of information that a pool is
nonconforming, and with prior notice to the owner, inspect a swimming pool to
determine whether it is in compliance with provisions of this subchapter.
(2010 Code, § 99.08)
§ 150.09 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Swimming pools erected prior to the effective date of this subchapter which
do not meet the fence, electrical or safety requirements of this subchapter
shall be made to conform to such requirements within 90 days of the effective
date of this subchapter. No swimming pool existing as of the effective date of
this subchapter shall be rendered illegal solely because its violation of
location or setback provision of this subchapter.
(2010 Code, § 99.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful to own or operate a swimming pool or juvenile pool in
violation of this subchapter. The officer charged with administration of
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances is charged with administration of this
subchapter.
(2010 Code, § 99.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.11 VARIATIONS.
   Variations under this subchapter may be allowed and shall be processed in
the same manner as variations under
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances.
(2010 Code, § 99.11)
VACANT AND FORECLOSED PROPERTY  REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT
§ 150.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any building inspector, code enforcement officer, law
enforcement officer, fire inspector, or other person authorized by the village
to enforce the Village Code or the laws and regulations of the State of
Illinois.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition that on its own, or combined with other
conditions, would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property is
vacant or unoccupied by persons legally in possession thereof. Such conditions
include, but are not limited to, overgrown or dead vegetation; past due utility
notices or bills; disconnected utilities; accumulation of trash, junk or
debris; abandoned vehicles or parts thereof; the absence of furnishings or
personal items consistent with habitation or occupancy; the presence of an
unsanitary, stagnant swimming pool; the accumulation of newspapers, circulars,
flyers or mail; statements by neighbors, passers-by, delivery agents or
government agents that the property is vacant or unoccupied; or the presence of
boards over doors, windows or other openings.
   FORECLOSURE or FORECLOSURE ACTION. The legal process by which a mortgagee
terminates a property owner’s interest in the real property pledged as security
for a debt. This definition includes, but is not limited to, public notice of
default, a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, sale to the mortgagee, certificate of
title, and all other processes, activities and actions, by whatever name,
associated with the above-described process. The process is not concluded until
the property obtained by the mortgagee, or their designee, by certificate of
title, or any other means, is sold to a non-related bona fide purchaser in an
arm’s length transaction to satisfy the debt or lien.
   MORTGAGEE. The mortgage creditor, including but not limited to, trustees;
mortgage service companies; lenders in a mortgage agreement; any agent,
servant, or employee of the creditor; any successor in interest; or any
assignee of the creditor’s rights, interests or obligations under a mortgage
agreement.
   OWNER. An individual(s), legal entity, partnership, limited liability
company, corporation, or governmental or private agency in whom legal title to
the property is vested or purchased under a recorded land contract.
   PROPERTY MANAGER. An individual (including the owner, if applicable), or
property maintenance company or other similar entity responsible for the
maintenance of registrable properties.
   REGISTRABLE PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any real property that is vacant or subject to any cancellation of
utilities to the property for a period of 90 consecutive days or more; or
      (2)   Any real property located within the village, whether vacant or
occupied, that is encumbered by a mortgage that is subject to a foreclosure
action by the mortgagee, is subject to a judgement of foreclosure by the
mortgagee, is subject to an application for a tax deed or a pending tax
assessor’s lien sale, or has been the subject of a foreclosure sale where the
title was transferred to the beneficiary of a mortgage involved in the
foreclosure and any property transferred under a deed in lieu of foreclosure.
   SEMI-ANNUAL REGISTRATION. Six months from the date of the first action that
requires registration, as determined by the village or its designee, and every
subsequent six months. The date of the initial registration may be different
than the date of the first action that required registration.
   UTILITIES. Any utility that is essential for a building or structure to be
habitable, including but not limited to electrical, gas, water, and sewer.
   VACANT. Any property in the village that is improved by a building or
structure that is not occupied by persons legally entitled to possession
thereof and that exhibits evidence of vacancy as that term is defined herein.
Vacant property does not mean property that is temporarily unoccupied while the
persons legally entitled to possession thereof are away on vacation, personal
matters or business, or is not intended by such persons to be left vacant for a
period of more than 90 days.
(Ord. 20-12-02, passed 12-1-2020)
§ 150.26 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT.
   The owner, or his or her agent, of a property that has become vacant or
subject to foreclosure within the corporate limits of the village shall cause
to be registered each vacant or foreclosed property pursuant to the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 20-12-02, passed 12-1-2020)
§ 150.27 REGISTRATION OF PROPERTY SUBJECT TO FORECLOSURE.
   (A)   A mortgagee that initiated a foreclosure action against a property
within the corporate limits of the village prior to the effective date of this
subchapter, or its agent, shall register each property as provided in this
subchapter within ten days.
   (B)   After the effective date of this subchapter, a mortgagee or its agent
shall, within ten days of the date of its initiation of a foreclosure action
against a property within the corporate limits of the village, register the
property as provided in this subchapter. Registration shall include the
following:
      (1)   (a)   Mortgagee’s name, address, phone number, and e-mail address;
         (b)   If the mortgagee is a legal entity, partnership, limited
liability company, corporation, the name, address, phone number, and e-mail
address of each officer, director, individual, or entity having more than a 5%
interest in such entity;
      (2)   When applicable, the name, address, phone number, and e- mail
address of the mortgagee’s agent, property manager, other person responsible
for the maintenance of the registrable property and who is designated to
receive any and all notices with respect to the property;
      (3)   Address and property tax index number of the registrable property;
      (4)   Type of property (commercial, single-family, duplex, multi- unit,
apartment complex, etc.);
      (5)   A statement as to whether the property is vacant or occupied;
      (6)   Plan and timeline to abate existing nuisances or code violations
(if applicable); and
      (7)   Any additional information as the village may require from time to
time.
   (C)   Any property that has previously been registered in accordance with
this section, and which later becomes vacant, shall not be required to re-
register pursuant to this section; provided, however, that such registration
information shall be updated in accordance with this subchapter to reflect the
change in occupancy status.
   (D)   A designation as a registrable property under this section shall
remain until such time as the property is sold to a bona fide purchaser in an
arm’s length transaction or the foreclosure action has been dismissed.
(Ord. 20-12-02, passed 12-1-2020)
§ 150.28 REGISTRATION OF VACANT PROPERTY.
   (A)   The owner of a property that was vacant within the corporate limits of
the village prior to the effective date of this subchapter, or his or her
agent, shall register each property as provided in this subchapter within ten
days.
   (B)   After the effective date of this subchapter, an owner or his or her
agent shall, within 15 days after a property becomes vacant, register such
property pursuant to this subchapter. The registration of a vacant property
shall include the following:
      (1)   (a)   The owner’s name, address, telephone number, and e-mail
address;
         (b)   If the owner is a legal entity, partnership, limited liability
company, or corporation, the name, address, telephone number, and e-mail
address of each officer, director, individual, or entity having more than a 5%
interest in such entity shall be provided in the registration;
      (2)   Where applicable, the name, address, telephone number, and e-mail
address of the owner’s agent, property manager, or other person responsible for
the maintenance of the registrable property and whom is designated to receive
any and all notices with respect to the vacant property shall be provided;
      (3)   Address and property tax index number of the registrable property;
      (4)   Type of property (commercial, single-family, duplex, multi-unit,
apartment complex, etc.);
      (5)   A statement as to whether the property is vacant or occupied;
      (6)   Details as to a plan and timeline to remove existing nuisances or
code violations; and
      (7)   Any additional information as the Village may require from time to
time.
   (C)   Any property previously registered in accordance with this section,
and which thereafter becomes subject to foreclosure, shall not be required to
re-register pursuant to this section; provided that such registration
information shall be updated in accordance with this subchapter to reflect
changes in the status of the registrable property.
   (D)   A designation as a registrable property pursuant to this subchapter
shall remain until such time as the property is occupied for a period of 30
consecutive days or sold to a bona fide purchaser with the intent to
permanently occupy such registrable property.
(Ord. 20-12-02, passed 12-1-2020)
§ 150.29 REGISTRATION FEE.
   (A)   Each mortgagee or owner of a vacant property shall pay a non-
refundable semi- annual registration fee of $300 for each registrable property.
Subsequent registration fees in the amount of $300 shall be paid to the village
within ten days of the expiration of the previous registration.
   (B)   If a registrable property is not registered, or the registration fee
is not paid within 30 days of the required initial registration or renewal
pursuant to this sub-chapter, a late fee equal to 10% of the registration fee
shall be imposed for every 30 day period in which the property is not
registered, and shall be due and payable with the semi-annual registration.
(Ord. 20-12-02, passed 12-1-2020)
§ 150.30 CHANGES IN REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   In the event of changes to registration information provided under §§
150.27 and
150.28, any and all changes to such information shall be provided in writing to
the village within 15 days of such change(s) in information. There shall be no
fees imposed for submitting changes in registration information.
(Ord. 20-12-02, passed 12-1-2020)
§ 150.31 TRANSFER OF REGISTRABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   If a registrable property, or property that has been registered
pursuant to this subchapter, has been sold or otherwise transferred, including
but not limited to a transfer to a mortgagee under a foreclosure sale, deed in
lieu of foreclosure, or any other legal means, the new owner shall be subject
to all the provisions of this subchapter. Within 15 days of the sale or
transfer, the new owner shall register the property or update the existing
registration and registration information. The previous owner shall not be
relieved of the responsibility of paying all unpaid fees, fines, and penalties
that have accrued while such owner held an interest in the registrable
property.
   (B)   If a registrable property or property that is encumbered by a mortgage
has been registered by the mortgagee pursuant to this subchapter, and such
mortgage is sold, assigned, or otherwise transferred, the new mortgagee shall
be subject to all provisions of this subchapter. Within 15 days of the date of
sale, assignment, or transfer, the new mortgagee shall register the property or
update the existing registration and registration information. The previous
mortgagee shall not be relieved of the responsibility of paying all unpaid
fees, fines, and penalties that accrued during that mortgagee’s interest in the
registrable property.
(Ord. 20-12-02, passed 12-1-2020)
§ 150.32 NOTICE OF DETERMINATION OF REGISTRABLE PROPERTY.
   After the effective date of this subchapter, the village or its designee
shall continually evaluate all properties within village limits and make a
determination for each as to whether the property is a registrable property.
For each property determined to be a registrable property, the village or its
designee shall send a written notice of its determination by certified mail to
the mortgagee or owner, whichever is applicable, to the address listed in the
mortgage, or in the case of the owner to the address where the last property
tax bill was sent, according to the official records of Peoria County,
Illinois. If the mortgagee or owner cannot be found after diligent inquiry,
service may be made by posting a notice in or on the registrable property or by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in Peoria County, Illinois
for a period of three consecutive days. The notice shall contain the following:
   (A)   A statement to register the property in accordance with this
subchapter within 15 calendar days of the date of the notice;
   (B)   A statement of the obligations as a mortgagee or owner of registrable
property;
   (C)   The registry link or a copy of the Registration Form to be completed
by the owner;
   (D)   The penalties for failure to register the property; and
   (E)   A notice of the right to appeal the determination.
(Ord. 20-12-02, passed 12-1-2020)
§ 150.33 MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Each registrable property or property that has been registered
pursuant to this subchapter shall be maintained in accordance with all
applicable provisions of the Village Code and free of any nuisance, including
but not limited to nuisance greenery, garbage, rubbish, refuse, graffiti,
stagnant water, foul odors, and dilapidated or unsafe buildings or structures.
   (B)   Each registrable property, or property that has been registered
pursuant to this subchapter, shall be maintained in a secure manner so as to be
reasonably inaccessible by unauthorized persons, including but not limited to
boarding up, closing off, locking windows and entrances, or enclosing the
exterior of the property with an appropriate fence or wall.
(Ord. 20-12-02, passed 12-1-2020)
§ 150.34 INSPECTION; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement officers are authorized and empowered to inspect or cause
the inspection of each registrable property within the village at any
reasonable hour to determine compliance with this subchapter and any other
applicable provision of the Village Code.
   (B)   Compliance with this subchapter does not relieve the mortgagee or
owner of a registrable property from any other obligations set forth in the
Village Code, which may apply to the property. Failure of the mortgagee or
owner to properly maintain a registrable property in accordance with all
applicable provisions of the Village Code may result in a violation of the
Village Code and issuance of a citation in accordance therewith. Registration
under this subchapter shall not preclude the village from taking any other
action against the property pursuant to other applicable provisions of the
Village Code or the Illinois Municipal Code or other applicable laws,
including, but not limited to, the right of the village to secure, demolish, or
take remedial action with respect to the property or buildings or structures
located thereon when it is in the best interest of the public safety and
welfare. The village may also pursue other legal or equitable remedies
including, but not limited to, injunctive relief, application to a court of
competent jurisdiction for a receiver, demolition or condemnation, contracting
for the repair or purchase of the premises, or foreclosure of any lien the
village may have on the property.
(Ord. 20-12-02, passed 12-1-2020)
§ 150.35 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The village shall be responsible for maintaining all vacant and
foreclosed property registration information and provide an annual report to
the Director of Buildings and Inspections of the number of vacant and
foreclosed properties in the village, and the number of properties added to or
deleted from the previous registration report.
   (B)   The Department of Buildings and Inspections shall keep records of all
complaints, inspections, reports, and actions taken with respect to each
registrable property.
(Ord. 20-12-02, passed 12-1-2020)
§ 150.36 RETENTION OF PROPERTY REGISTRATION COMPANY.
   (A)   The village may, in its discretion, elect to contract with an outside
company or entity to perform the actions and services authorized herein.
   (B)   The actions and services to be performed by the property registration
company retained by the village may include, but shall not be limited to,
maintaining a registry of registrable properties in the village, contacting
owners of registrable properties, identifying and monitoring changes to
registrable properties and registration information, maintaining a record of
all reported violations of registrable properties in the village, and providing
a website for the registration of registrable properties in order to facilitate
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 20-12-02, passed 12-1-2020)
§ 150.37 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Every mortgagee or owner, whichever is applicable, who fails to
register or renew the registration of a registrable property within the
applicable time period prescribed in this subchapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $150, nor more than $750 per
unregistered property. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each
day upon which said violation shall continue or exist.
   (B)   Every mortgagee, owner, or agent thereof, whichever is applicable, who
submits false information on the applicable registration form shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $150, nor more than
$750.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided herein, any person who violates any
provision of this subchapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a
fine of not less than $150, nor more than $750 for each offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed for each day upon which said violation(s)
shall continue or exist.
   (D)   The fines provided in this section shall not be construed to abridge
or in any manner interfere with the right and power of the village to enforce
any other action provided in this subchapter or other applicable provision of
the Village Code, or to seek injunctive relief or other appropriate legal
remedy provided by law for a violation of this chapter or other applicable
provision of the Village Code.
(Ord. 20-12-02, passed 12-1-2020)
§ 150.38 APPEALS.
   A mortgagee, owner, or agent thereof, whichever is applicable, may appeal
the determination of an enforcement officer that a property has been determined
to be a registrable property or is in violation of this subchapter to the Board
of Appeals pursuant to the provisions of §
154.016.
(Ord. 20-12-02, passed 12-1-2020)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Signs and awnings
   
151.02   Utility poles
Sidewalks
   
151.15   Construction specifications
   
151.16   Width and grades
   
151.17   Temporary grade
   
151.18   Levy of cost
   
151.19   Replacing for uniformity
   
151.20   Owner construction; file cost
Streets
   
151.35   Obstructions; injury prohibited
   
151.36   Permit to obstruct
   
151.37   Deposits prohibited
   
151.38   Hitching animals
   
151.39   Hauling over streets; fees
   
151.40   Galvanized steel tubing
   
151.41   Depositing snow
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 SIGNS AND AWNINGS.
   (A)   Signs, awnings, goods. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect,
suspend, keep or maintain any sign, awnings, goods, clothing or other structure
or thing over or across any street or sidewalk of the village, or any tree or
shrub with branches overhanging the street or sidewalk in such a manner as to
obstruct the street or sidewalk or render travel inconvenient or unsafe. It
shall also be unlawful for any awning, sign or structure over any street or
sidewalk to be out of repair or in an insecure or unsafe condition.
   (B)   Wooden awnings; sheds. It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct, repair, keep or maintain within the village any wooden awning or
shed over any sidewalk or foot-way with supports reaching down to the sidewalk
or to the ground which would make it unsafe or insecure.
(2010 Code, § 173.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.02 UTILITY POLES.
   (A)   Permit to erect. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or set
up in any of the streets, avenues, alleys or other public places or grounds of
the village, poles or other means of support from and over which any wires are
strung and extended for the purpose of communication or for any other purpose
without first having obtained permission and authority from the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Committee on streets to supervise. All poles set, or wires extended,
under the authority of the provisions of division (A) above shall be under the
charge and control of the Committee on Streets and Alleys, subject to the
provisions of this code.
   (C)   Ordinance required. It shall be unlawful for any person to run, string
or extend wires in, along, upon or over any of the streets, alleys, avenues,
sidewalks or other public places or grounds of the village for any purpose,
unless first duly authorized by an ordinance.
   (D)   Raise wires; notice. Whenever it shall become necessary to have any
wires raised to enable public travel to pass along any street of the village,
or when any wires are, or shall become, lowered so as to impede or interfere
with public travel upon any street of the village, it shall be the duty of the
person owning or operating the wires, upon reasonable notice, to raise them as
directed by the President or the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   Damage; injury to property. It shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully injure, deface or destroy any street light globes or lamp, any pole,
guy wire, rope line wire or appurtenances to the street lights in the village.
(2010 Code, § 173.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 151.15 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All sidewalks constructed within the limits of the village shall be
concrete walks.
   (B)   The respective owners of lots or parcels of land abutting upon any
street within the limits of the village may construct a concrete walk in front
of the owner’s lots or parcels of land in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (C)   The village reserves the power to ordain, at any time, construction of
sidewalks as provided by law, whenever the President and Board of Trustees may
deem it necessary for private or public use.
   (D)   The fee simple title to the streets of the village is vested in the
municipal corporation.
(2010 Code, § 173.02)
§ 151.16 WIDTH AND GRADES.
   Sidewalks shall be at least four feet in width and the whole work of grading
and laying down the sidewalks, including all material and work entering into
the construction of the sidewalks, along with the cost, whether done by the
village or the owners of the respective lots or parcels of land abutting the
streets, shall be done under the supervision and subject to the approval of the
Street and Alley Committee. The Committee shall establish the grades of all
sidewalks, which shall conform as nearly as possible to the grades of their
respective streets.
(2010 Code, § 173.02)
§ 151.17 TEMPORARY GRADE.
   Where no permanent grade is established, the Committee may give a temporary
grade and shall, when requested by any person desiring to build a sidewalk,
stake out the ground without charge to that person. No person shall construct
or lay, or cause to be constructed or laid, any sidewalk where no grade has
been established by the village, without first having obtained a grade from the
Committee or contrary to any grade given by the Committee. No person shall
construct or cause to be constructed any sidewalk contrary to any grade which
may have been or may be established by the village.
(2010 Code, § 173.02)
§ 151.18 LEVY OF COST.
   (A)   The portion of the walk abutting each individual lot shall be paid for
by levying the whole cost of the individual walk against the individual lot;
provided that, the village shall pay one-half of the contract price of the walk
along the lot.
   (B)   The one-half of the contract price paid by the owner(s) shall be paid
at the time of the completion of the walk.
(2010 Code, § 173.02)
§ 151.19 REPLACING FOR UNIFORMITY.
   The Committee on Streets and Alleys is authorized to tear up and replace any
sidewalk to establish uniformity in the height or grade of connecting sidewalks
and crossings.
(2010 Code, § 173.02)
§ 151.20 OWNER CONSTRUCTION; FILE COST.
   Whenever the cost of any sidewalk is to be paid in part by special taxation
of the lot, lots or parcels of land adjacent to it and in part by the village,
the owner of the lot or parcel of land shall construct the sidewalk in
accordance with the provisions of this code and shall file with the Clerk of
the village an itemized statement of the cost of the sidewalk, verified by an
affidavit, together with the certificate of the Street and Alley Committee that
the walk has been constructed and fully completed by the owner in accordance
with this code. The Board of Trustees of the village, at its first meeting
following submission of this statement, affidavit and certificate, shall issue
an order to the Village Treasurer for the proportionate part of the cost to be
paid by the village as provided by this code or as provided by any future
ordinance.
(2010 Code, § 173.02)
STREETS
§ 151.35 OBSTRUCTIONS; INJURY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The streets, avenues, alleys and other public rights-of-way in the
village shall be kept free and clear of all encumbrances and encroachments, for
the use of the public, and shall not be used or occupied in any other way which
is prohibited by this code. No person shall injure or tear up any pavement,
sidewalk, right- of-way or crosswalk or any part of any pavement, sidewalk,
right-of-way or crosswalk, or burn any rubbish or other thing in the streets,
alleys or rights- of-way, or dig any hole, ditch or drain, or dig or remove any
sod, stone, earth, sand, gravel or other substance from any street or other
public right-of-way in the village, without having first obtained written
permission from the Street and Alley Committee.
   (B)   Written permission shall be accompanied by a cash bond or letter of
credit on the part of the applicant to observe the relevant provisions of this
code and to protect the village from any liability to any person or persons
resulting from an accident, or damages arising from the occupation, and to
fully remove all materials, dirt and rubbish from the occupied space and to
restore the street and right-of- way to its original condition immediately upon
the expiration of the period granted in the permit.
   (C)   Upon full compliance with the provisions contained in this subchapter,
the Street and Alley Committee may issue the permit. No person shall hinder or
obstruct the making, repairing or restoring of any pavement, sidewalk or
crosswalk, or any part of any pavement, sidewalk or crosswalk, in any of the
streets, avenues, alleys or other public rights-of-way in the village, when the
construction or repair is ordered by the President and the Board of Trustees or
other proper officers of the village.
(2010 Code, § 173.03) (Ord. 17-06-01, passed 6-6-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.36 PERMIT TO OBSTRUCT.
   (A)   Any person desiring to occupy any portion of the public streets of the
village, while engaged in the erection or repair of any building, along any of
the streets, shall first file an application with the Street and Alley
Committee for a permit to occupy that space.
   (B)   The application shall state the location of the proposed building, the
amount of space in the streets desired for occupation and the length of time to
be occupied.
(2010 Code, § 173.03)
§ 151.37 DEPOSITS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the village to place, throw or
deposit, or cause to be placed, thrown or deposited, and permit to remain in or
upon any street, alley or other public thoroughfare, sidewalk or public landing
any timber, lumber, lath, shingles, fence posts, wood, coal, stone, concrete,
gravel, sand, earth, crockery, tin cans or tin clippings, oyster or clam
shells, rubbish, boxes, brush, barrels, filth, wagons, carts, drays or other
vehicles, decayed vegetables, thing or commodity.
(2010 Code, § 173.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.38 HITCHING ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the village to hitch, fasten or
tie any horse, mule or other animal to any shade or ornamental tree which may
be standing or growing on any street or sidewalk, or to cut, injure, bend or
climb upon any shade or ornamental tree on any street or sidewalk, or to box
around any tree, or to hitch, fasten or tie any horse, mule or other animal to
any lamppost, awing post, public hydrant, telegraph or telephone post or sign
post on any sidewalk, street, avenue, alley or other public place, or to cut,
break, injure or destroy any public lamp, lamppost or any other property
belonging to the village.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any person in the village to light or
extinguish any public lamp without having proper authority to do so. It shall
also be unlawful for any person to fasten, leave standing or tie any horse,
mule or other animal on any sidewalk, or at any place, or to anything, in such
a way that the horse or other animal shall occupy or obstruct the free use of
any street, avenue or sidewalk.
(2010 Code, § 173.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.39 HAULING OVER STREETS; FEES.
   All contractors, teamsters and other persons hauling dirt, ashes, gravel,
sand or other substance on any of the streets, avenues, alleys or other public
thoroughfares in the village shall construct, keep and maintain their trailers,
wagon boxes, dumps and sideboards with front and rear end boards secured at all
times to prevent the spilling of ashes, gravel, dirt, sand or rubbish from the
vehicle.
(2010 Code, § 173.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.40 GALVANIZED STEEL TUBING.
   All off-street entrances to private property shall have an approved
galvanized corrugated steel tubing placed in the drainage ditch and the
specifications for the tubing must first be approved by the Street and Alley
Committee of the village.
(2010 Code, § 173.03)
§ 151.41 DEPOSITING SNOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or push snow from any public
or private property onto any street, sidewalk or alley within the village.
(2010 Code, § 173.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Purpose and authority
   
152.003   Definitions
   
152.004   Map; establishment
   
152.005   Procedures generally
   
152.006   Amendments and additions
   
152.007   Board approval
   
152.008   Sketch plan discussion
   
152.009   Plat Officer
   
152.010   Variance and amendments
   
152.011   Conflict with private deeds and covenants
   
152.012   New subdivisions
Plat Procedures
   
152.025   Subdivision types
   
152.026   Tract survey approval
   
152.027   Minor subdivision approval
   
152.028   Major subdivision approval
   
152.029   Certificates and notations
Preliminary Plat
   
152.040   Preparing and filing
   
152.041   Review and approval
   
152.042   Approval not to constitute subdivision
   
152.043   Time limitation of preliminary approval
Final Plat
   
152.055   Preparing and filing
   
152.056   Review and approval
   
152.057   Time limitation for recording plat
   
152.058   Release expiration or extension of subdivision guarantee
Design Standards and Improvements
   
152.070   General street layout, blocks and lotting
   
152.071   Streets and sidewalks
   
152.072   Monuments
   
152.073   Utility and street improvements
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be referred to and cited as “The
Village of Hanna City, Illinois, Subdivision and Official Map Ordinance”. It
embraces all the lands and properties lying within said village, and within the
areas set forth and described as being contiguous or adjacent to said village
within one and one-half miles from the said village limits, but outside said
village. The map or maps herein referred to and identified by the title thereon
as “Official Map, Village of Hanna Village” is adopted herein as a part hereof,
together with all explanatory matters thereon.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   This chapter and official maps as herein set forth and made a part hereof
have been made for these purposes and objectives: to provide for the harmonious
development of the village and its environs as outlined, and for the
coordination of streets and subdivision with other existing or planned streets,
and for the preservation of adequate open space for traffic, light and air, and
for the distribution of population and traffic to the extent that favorable
conditions in regard to health, safety and general welfare are protected or
created; to assure that development will follow proposals of the overall
Comprehensive Plan for the village, and the environs embraced herein; to assure
that adjacent developments will properly relate to one another; to assure that
a coordinated effort will be made between utilities, services and developers so
that streets and other improvements will be properly installed; and to assure a
minimum level of improvement for all subdivisions.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.003 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All words used in the present tense include the future tense.
      (2)   All words in the singular include the plural and all words in the
plural include the singular.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALLEY. Minor way used primarily for vehicular access to the back or side
of property otherwise abutting on a street.
      COLLECTOR STREET or COLLECTOR ROAD. Traffic ways which carry traffic
between sections of the community or which serve as a connector between rural
areas and the community and designated on the official map herein as COLLECTOR.
      HALF STREET. A street dedicated to less than its full planned width.
      LOCAL STREET or LOCAL ROAD. Traffic ways which serve primarily for access
to abutting property, and designated on the official map herein as LOCAL.
      MAJOR STREET or MAJOR HIGHWAY. Traffic ways, connecting communities or
connecting to limited access traffic ways which in turn, connect to other
communities and designated on the official map herein as MAJOR.
      OFFICIAL MAP. A map or maps established herein and on which may be
indicated proposed public improvements for the purpose of coordinating
construction of public improvements with future community development.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the village.
      PLAT OFFICER. The person appointed to occupy the office created herein,
in which office is vested the chief administrative and enforcement duties, as
outlined herein.
      RESERVE FRONTAGE. A condition whereby both fronts and rears of properties
face on streets.
      RESERVE STRIP. A narrow strip of land between a street adjacent to the
property line and the adjacent property, the strip being retained in private
ownership to prevent access of neighboring property to an improved and
dedicated street.
      STREET, ROAD or ALLEY. Right-of-way dedicated to and for the public use
and affording principal means of access to abutting property.
      SUBDIVISION. A division or resubdivision of a parcel of land or a group
of contiguous parcels under one ownership on the effective date of this
chapter, into two more lots or parcels, any of which is less than five acres;
provided that, the provisions of this chapter shall not apply in any of the
following instances:
         (a)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of
five acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements
of access;
         (b)   The division of lots or blocks of less than an acre in any
recorded subdivision, which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
         (c)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners or
adjoining and contiguous land;
         (d)   The conveyance of parcels or land or interests therein for use
as a right-of-way for railroads or other public facilities and other pipe lines
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
         (e)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public
utility, which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
         (f)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or
grants or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use of
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
         (g)   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
         (h)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parts of a particular parcel or tract of land
existing on 7-17-1959 and not involving any new streets or easement of access;
         (i)   The sale of a single lot of less than five acres from a larger
tract when a survey is made by a state registered land surveyor; provided that,
this exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the same
larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and configuration of the
larger tract on 10-1-1973; and
         (j)   The preparation of a plat for wind energy devices under 35 ILCS
200/10-620 of the Property Tax Code.
      VILLAGE ENGINEER. A person designated to act in the capacity of Village
Engineer in the review of engineering data as outlined herein where the
services of a village engineer are specifically mentioned.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.004 MAP; ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established for the village and contiguous areas an Official
map, which is included herein and adopted as part of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.005 PROCEDURES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Planned public improvements may be indicated on official map. The
official map may show indication of sites for planned public facilities. Public
facility sites which may be indicated on the official map may include, but are
not limited to, sites for new traffic ways or widening of existing traffic
ways, school and recreational sites, public building sites for future storm
drainage, electrical or other public service or utility easement.
   (B)   Planned public facilities on official map to be required on
subdivision plat. Whenever the official map indicates the necessity for
providing a site for a planned public safety facility, the Board may require
that the site for the public use be designated on the subdivision plat before
granting approval to such plat; and, furthermore, that such site be held for
that specific public use for a period of one year from date of final plat
approval.
   (C)   Responsible agency to begin negotiations to purchase public site
within one year. Whenever a site for public use shown on the official map has
been required to be indicated on a subdivision plat, the responsible agency
having jurisdiction of such use shall acquire the land so designated or
commence proceedings to acquire such land by condemnation within one year from
date of approval of such plat; and, if it does not do so within such period of
one year, the land so designated may then be used by the owners in any other
manner consistent with this chapter and the appropriate zoning regulations.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.006 AMENDMENTS AND ADDITIONS.
   (A)   Amendments to the official map, including the indication of additional
public sites to be shown on the map, shall be considered amendments to this
chapter and, therefore, shall be as specified in §
152.010 of this chapter.
   (B)   Any agency or person requesting the establishment on the official map
of a future public site or easement, which is not included in the official map
shall indicate to the Planning Commission the need for the site in the
particular locations specified. The Planning Commission, before making a
favorable recommendation for the inclusion on the official map of such site by
the Board, shall find that the public site location is consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan of the community and shall indicate in its minutes and
recommendation to the Board.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.007 BOARD APPROVAL.
   It is hereby required that no subdivision of any block, lot or sublot or any
part thereof, or any piece or parcel of land within the village or in
contiguous territory of subdivision review jurisdiction as indicated on the
attached map shall be entitled to record in its respective county or have any
validity until is has been approved by the Board. Each person seeking the
Board’s approval of a map, plat or subdivision shall follow the procedure
herein outlined.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.008 SKETCH PLAN DISCUSSION.
   (A)   Prior to the filing of a preliminary plat, the subdivider may submit
to the plat officer material relating to the proposed subdivision in order to
avail himself or herself of the advice and assistance of the Commission. This
may exclude information relative to the site and conditions of the site,
existing community facilities and utilities on and adjacent to this site,
number and size of lots proposed.
   (B)   It is suggested that, for the maximum benefit, the material should
include as a minimum:
      (1)   Location map. Location map should show relationships of the
proposed subdivision to the streets and other community facilities serving it;
and
      (2)   Sketch plan. The sketch plan should show in simple sketch form
proposed layout of streets, lots and other features in relation to existing
conditions.
   (C)   The sketch plan discussion does not require formal application, fee or
filing of the plat. The Plat Officer shall submit the sketch plan material to
the Planning Commission, which shall, within one month, make known its comments
regarding the proposed subdivision to the subdivider and the Plat Officer.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.009 PLAT OFFICER.
   The office of Plat Officer is hereby established, in which is vested the
duty of administration of these regulations as specified herein and such other
related regulations as are assigned to that office by the Board. The Plat
Officer is to be appointed by the Mayor with the advise and consent of the
Board and shall be a person who is qualified by professional or practical
training and experience to conduct the affairs of that office.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.010 VARIANCE AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Variances; general. The Board of the village hereby reserves authority
to vary the strict application of any of the provisions herein contained, but
such variances shall be exercised only upon written recommendation of the
Planning Commission which, in turn, shall make such recommendation upon
recommendation of the Plat Officer or upon its own motion.
   (B)   Variances, large scale developments.
      (1)   The standards and requirements of these regulations may be modified
by the Board in case of a plan or program, for a complete community or
neighborhood unit.
      (2)   Such modification shall not be made until after written
recommendation of the Planning Commission, which recommendation may be given
when in the judgment of the Planning Commission, the specific plan or program
presented provides adequate public space and improvements for the circulation,
recreation, light, air and service needs of the tract when fully developed and
populated, and which also provides such covenants or other legal provisions as
will assure conformity to and achievement of the plan.
   (C)   Amendments. Amendments to this chapter shall be made by the Board as
provided by statute; providing, however, that, no amendment shall be adopted
without first referring the proposed amendment to the Planning Commission and
receiving a report therefrom; except, however, if no report is received within
90 days, it shall be deemed to be approved by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.011 CONFLICT WITH PRIVATE DEEDS AND COVENANTS.
   In case any conflict between this chapter or part thereof and the whole or
part of any existing or future private covenants or deeds, the most restrictive
shall apply.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.012 NEW SUBDIVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply in any new subdivision where
a plat of subdivision is not required by the state’s Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/
1 et seq.).
(Ord. 16-02-22, passed 2-16-2016)
PLAT PROCEDURES
§ 152.025 SUBDIVISION TYPES.
   (A)   Before any division of land or creation of a public right-of-way may
occur, the owner of the property, or his or her designated agent, shall apply
for and secure approval of the proposed development in accordance with the
following procedures for tract survey, minor or major subdivision. No matter
the type of development, all shall be prepared by either a state registered
land surveyor or state professional engineer.
   (B)   In general, the following procedures will be followed:
      (1)   Tract survey: two steps:
         (a)   Pre-application conference; and
         (b)   Tract survey plat.
      (2)   Minor subdivision: three steps:
         (a)   Pre-application conference;
         (b)   Preliminary plat; and
         (c)   Final plat.
      (3)   Major subdivision: five steps:
         (a)   Pre-application conference;
         (b)   Preliminary plat;
         (c)   Construction and erosion, sediment, storm water plans for public
improvements;
         (d)   Posting of financial security; and
         (e)   Final plat.
(Ord. 16-02-, passed - -2016)
§ 152.026 TRACT SURVEY APPROVAL.
   (A)   Pre-application conference purpose. The village is aware of and
appreciates the investment of resources incurred by developers. The pre-
application conference will provide an opportunity for the developer and
village staff to: meet informally; openly discuss a proposal; and allow the
village staff to provide comment prior to the developer having to make a great
investment of resources into a project. The developer shall initiate contact
with the village and may request a time to meet to discuss a proposal.
   (B)   Submission requirements. In order to ensure consistency in form and
data, and to provide minimum design criteria, clearly delineated standards are
established and required, as follows.
      (1)   Form and data for survey plats. For preliminary review, one copy of
the survey plat shall be submitted in either hard copy or electronic format
(provided, the electronic format version is acceptable and readable by village
equipment). For final review and eventual recording, the original Mylar tracing
of the proposed tract survey together with nine copies are required to be
prepared with the following information:
         (a)   Conformance. Land reference shall conform with the Plat Act,
being 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq., to which all dimensions, angles, bearing and
similar data on the tract survey shall have accurate dimensions, bearing or
deflection angles, and radii arcs, and central angle of all curves, and shall
include at a minimum:
            1.   Tract boundary lines;
            2.   Right-of-way lines of streets and those street names;
            3.   Easements and other rights-of- way, including their location
and dimensions;
            4.   The existing parcel identification number;
            5.   The metes and bounds description of the parcel to be created;
            6.   All existing structures on the existing parcel;
            7.   Titles, scale, north arrow and date;
            8.   Minimum setback lines on all lots; and
            9.   Lot sizes of the tract to be created (to the hundredth of an
acre).
         (b)   Certificates. Required language of certificates are found in §
152.029 of this chapter. All shall be sealed or notarized as noted:
            1.   Certification by a state registered land surveyor as to
accuracy of survey with the surveyor’s signature and seal affixed;
            2.   County Clerk’s certificate, signed and sealed, stating that
all taxes are paid to date;
            3.   Certificate of all appropriate road officials, which may be
the Township Road Commissioner, County Engineer and/or IDOT District Engineer,
stating that the survey has been approved by that road authority with respect
to access and then signed;
            4.   Certificate of current ownership of parcel being split,
stating that the person(s) signing are the owners of the parcel being split and
have caused said tract survey to be prepared, and that to the best of their
knowledge the school district(s) in which the parcel is located. Said
certificate shall be signed and then notarized by a notary public; and
            5.   Certificate of the village’s Plat Officer, signed and sealed,
stating conformance with the village’s Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and the
appropriate subdivision provisions of the village code.
         (c)   Required notations. The following shall be required on all tract
surveys or only as noted.
            1.   Health Department note. This shall be noted on every tract
survey: “This tract survey does not provide for, nor imply, assurance of the
compatibility for future construction utilizing a private sewage disposal
system. A permit shall be obtained from the Peoria City/County Health
Department prior to start of construction.”
            2.   Water note. If the parcel is served by a public water provider
or water district, then “Water for this parcel is provided by _______ . Notice
of hook-up is required prior to start of construction” shall appear on the
tract survey. If the parcel is not served by any water provider, and an
individual well is needed, then “There is no public water provider to this
parcel. Development of the parcel requires a well permit from the Peoria City/
County Health Department before the start of construction” shall appear on the
tract survey.
            3.   Long driveways. For any parcel being created by tract survey
that extends greater than 500 feet from the adjacent right-of-way and street,
the following shall appear on the tract survey: “NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC: The
creation of long private driveways may result in increased response time or
inaccessibility by emergency service vehicles.”
            4.   Zoning. Every tract survey shall note the zoning of the parcel
on the day of recording with the following note, “On  (date)  , this parcel is
known to be zoned                   ”.
            5.   Floodplain. The surveyor shall determine if the parcel is
located within any regulatory floodplain or floodway. If it is so located, it
shall be noted graphically on the tract survey, and textually with the
following language, “This parcel is located in a special flood hazard area.
Zone , Community Panel            . Improvements to this parcel may require
special approval.”
            6.   Waivers. The surveyor shall include as a textual note all
waivers that were approved by the Village Board, including the section of this
chapter from which the waiver was sought.
      (2)   Minimum standards. In addition to the requirements of the
appropriate zoning district, in which the parcel being split is located, the
following shall apply to all tract surveys.
         (a)   Land use plan. All tract surveys shall comply with the village’s
Comprehensive Land Use Plan and any subsequent amendments thereto. An approved
special use or variance shall also serve as compliance.
         (b)   Frontage. All lots being created shall have frontage on a public
right-of-way and street. As noted below, the amount of frontage shall be
dependent upon the size of the parcel to be created. It shall also be applied
to the “remaining parcel”.
            1.   For parcels being created less than ten acres in size, a
minimum of 30 feet of frontage shall be provided to that tract.
            2.   For parcels being created ten or more acres in size, a minimum
of 60 feet of frontage shall be provided to that tract.
            3.   Parcels with an access only to existing private streets or
easements shall be permitted only in circumstances in which an extraordinary
hardship exists and with the approval of a waiver.
      (3)   Layout of tract survey.
         (a)   All tract surveys shall be submitted on sheets of Mylar and
paper, respectively, that are 16 inches by 22 inches or greater in increments
of six inches.
         (b)   All information on the tract survey shall be readable.
         (c)   All datum and legal descriptions shall be organized and listed
together.
         (d)   All certificates shall be located no more than one inch from any
edge of the survey.
         (e)   There shall be a one-inch margin around the entire tract survey.
         (f)   All signature blocks shall be flush with the required one-inch
margin.
         (g)   All notes shall be organized and listed together on the tract
survey.
         (h)   An area three inches by three inches in the lower left corner of
the tract survey shall be bordered and left blank for the Recorder of Deeds
recording stamp and information.
      (4)   Recording. The developer shall have the responsibility and bear the
cost of recording the tract survey in the County Recorder of Deeds Office after
it has been approved by the Village Plat Officer and all appropriate signatures
have been obtained.
(Ord. 16-02-, passed - -2016)
§ 152.027 MINOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   “Minor subdivisions” defined. As noted in §
152.003 of this chapter, a MINOR SUBDIVISION is any subdivision containing not
more than three lots fronting on an existing public right-of-way, not involving
any new public infrastructure, and not adversely affecting the remainder of the
parcel or adjoining property, and not in conflict with any provision or portion
of the village’s Comprehensive Land Use Plan and Map, or these regulations.
   (B)   Minimum standards. In addition to the requirements of the appropriate
zoning district, in which the parcel being split is located, the following
shall apply to all minor subdivisions.
      (1)   Land use plan. All minor subdivisions shall comply with the
village’s Comprehensive Land Use Plan and map, and any subsequent amendments
thereto.
      (2)   Frontage. All lots being created shall have frontage on a public
right-of-way and street. As noted below, the amount of frontage shall be
dependent upon the size of the parcel to be created. It shall also be applied
to the “remaining parcel.”
         (a)   For parcels being created less than ten acres in size, a minimum
of 30 feet of frontage shall be provided to that tract.
         (b)   For parcels being created ten or more acres in size, a minimum
of 60 feet of frontage shall be provided to that tract.
         (c)   Parcels with an access only to existing private streets or
easements shall be permitted only in circumstances in which an extraordinary
hardship exists, and with the approval of a waiver.
   (C)   Pre-application conference; purpose. The village is aware and
appreciates the investment of resources incurred by developers. The pre-
application conference will provide an opportunity for the developer and
village staff to meet informally; openly discuss a proposal; and allow the
village staff to provide comment prior to the developer having to make a great
investment of resources into a project. The developer shall initiate contact
with the village, and may request a time to meet to discuss a proposal.
   (D)   Final plat.
      (1)   Submittal. The developer shall submit the executed original Mylar
tracing of the intended final plat, together with at least ten copies, all with
original signatures.
      (2)   Approval. Within 15 working days after receipt of the final plat
and any additional information submitted with the final plat, any one of the
Plat Officer, Mayor, Chair of the Police & Planning Committee, or the Village
Administrator shall approve the final plat if it meets the requirements of this
chapter. If the plat does not meet the requirements of this chapter, any one of
the Plat Officer, Mayor, Chair of the Police & Planning Committee, or the
Village Administrator shall identify in writing the deficiencies.
      (3)   Form and data.
         (a)   Land. Reference shall conform with the Plat Act, 765 ILCS 205/
1 et seq., to which all dimensions, angles, bearing and similar data on the
final plat shall have accurate dimensions, bearing or deflection angles, and
radii arcs, and central angle of all curves, and shall include at a minimum:
            1.   Subdivision boundary and individual lot lines;
            2.   Titles, scale, north arrow and date;
            3.   Right-of-way lines of adjacent streets and those street names;
            4.   Easements and other rights-of- way, including their location
and dimensions;
            5.   Minimum setback lines on all lots pursuant to the applicable
setback requirements in the village code;
            6.   Location and description of monuments, according to the Plat
Act, being 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.;
            7.   Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining lands;
and
            8.   If not for residential use, stated purpose for which sites are
dedicated or reserved.
         (b)   Certificates. Required verbiage of certificates are found in §
152.029 of this chapter. All shall be sealed or notarized as noted:
            1.   State registered land surveyor:
               A.   A statement as to accuracy of survey and plat with the
Surveyor’s signature and seal affixed; and
               B.   A statement that the land being subdivided does or does not
lie within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits of any municipality
exercising extraterritorial subdivision control.
            2.   Statement by the developer reserving any and all easements and
any sites for public uses;
            3.   Village Clerk’s certificate, signed and sealed, stating that
all taxes are paid to date;
            4.   Health Department’s certificate, signed, stating compliance
with all Health Department regulations;
            5.   Certificate of all appropriate road officials, which may be
the Township Road Commissioner, County Engineer and/or IDOT District Engineer,
stating that the subdivision has been approved by that road authority with
respect to access and then signed;
            6.   Certificate of current ownership of parcel(s) being split,
stating that the person(s) signing the plat are the owners of parcel(s) being
split and have caused the minor subdivision to be prepared, and to the best of
their knowledge the school district(s) in which the parcel is located. The
certificate shall be signed by all owners and then notarized by a notary
public;
            7.   Certificate of the village’s Plat Officer, Mayor, Chair of the
Police & Planning Committee, or Village Administrator, signed and sealed,
stating conformance with the village’s Comprehensive Land Use Plan and the
provisions of this chapter; and
            8.   Protective covenants in form of recording.
         (c)   Required notations. The following shall be required on all minor
subdivisions, as noted:
            1.   Water note. If the parcel is served by a public water provider
or water district, then “Water for this parcel is provided by ________________.
Notice of hook-up is required prior to start of construction” shall appear on
the minor subdivision final plat. If the parcel is not served by any water
provider, and an individual well would be needed, then “There is no public
wafer provider to this parcel. Development of the parcel requires a well permit
from the Village/County Health Department before the start of construction”
shall appear on the final plat.
            2.   Long driveways. For any parcel being created by minor
subdivision that extends greater than 500 feet from the adjacent right-of-way
and street, the following shall appeal on the minor subdivision: “NOTICE TO THE
PUBLIC: The creation of long private driveways may result in increased response
time or inaccessibility by emergency service vehicles.”
            3.   Zoning. Every minor subdivision shall note the zoning of the
parcel on the day of recording with the following note, “On (date) __________,
this parcel is known to be zoned __________.”
            4.   Floodplain. The surveyor shall determine if the parcel is
located within any regulatory floodplain or floodway. If so, it shall be noted
graphically on the final plat, and textually with the following language, “This
parcel is located in a special flood hazard area. Zone ____, Community Panel
_____________. Improvements to this parcel may require special approval.”
            5.   Waivers. The surveyor shall include as a textual note all
waivers that were approved by the Village Board, including the section of the
village code from which the waiver was sought.
         (d)   Layout of the final plat.
            1.   All final plats shall be submitted on sheets of Mylar (one
original) and paper (minimum of ten copies), that are 16 inches by 22 inches or
greater in increments of six inches.
            2.   All information on the final plat shall be readable.
            3.   All datum and legal descriptions shall be organized and listed
together.
            4.   All certificates shall be located no more than one inch from
any edge of the plat.
            5.   There shall be a one-inch margin around the entire final plat.
            6.   All signature blocks shall be flush with the required one-inch
margin.
            7.   All notes shall be organized and listed together on the plat.
            8.   An area three inches by three inches in the lower left comer
of the final plat shall be bordered and left blank for the Recorder of Deeds
recording stamp and information.
   (E)   Recording. The developer shall have the responsibility and bear the
cost of recording the final plat in the County Recorder of Deeds office after
it has been approved and signed by the Village’s Plat Officer, and all
appropriate signatures obtained.
(Ord. 16-02-, passed - -2016; Ord. 22-06-01, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 152.028 MAJOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   “Major subdivisions” defined. As noted in §
152.003 of this chapter, a MAJOR SUBDIVISION is any subdivision not classified
as a minor subdivision or moderate subdivision, including, but not limited to,
subdivisions of 21 or more lots or any subdivision of 21 or more lots requiring
any new street or extension of the local government facilities or the creation
of any public improvements.
   (B)   Minimum standards. In addition to the requirements of the appropriate
zoning district, in which the parcel being split is located, the following
shall apply to all major subdivisions.
      (1)   Land use plan. All subdivisions shall comply with the village’s
Comprehensive Land Use Plan and any subsequent amendments thereto. An approved
special use or variance shall also serve as compliance.
      (2)   Frontage. All lots being created shall have frontage on a public
right-of-way and street. As noted below, the amount of frontage shall be
dependent upon the size of the parcel to be created. It shall also be applied
to the “remaining parcel”.
         (a)   For parcels being created less than ten acres in size, a minimum
of 30 feet of frontage shall be provided to that tract.
         (b)   For parcels being created ten or more acres in size, a minimum
of 60 feet of frontage shall be provided to that tract.
         (c)   Parcels with an access only to existing private streets or
easements shall be permitted only in circumstances in which an extraordinary
hardship exists, and with the approval of a waiver.
   (C)   Pre-application conference.
      (1)   The pre-application conference will provide an opportunity for the
developer and village staff to meet informally; openly discuss a proposal; and
allow the village staff to provide comment prior to the developer having to
make a great investment of resources into a project.
      (2)   The developer shall initiate contact with the village, and may
request a time to meet to discuss a proposal.
   (D)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   Purpose. In order to allow for a fair and thorough review of
proposals, information must be provided in a manner that is accurate,
descriptive and consistent.
      (2)   Submittals. The developer shall submit a preliminary plat to the
village together with a completed plat review application, statement of
preliminary plat information and the appropriate filing fee. The preliminary
plat shall include information categorized as general, existing site and
proposed site conditions.
         (a)   Copies required. Eleven.
         (b)   General information. A preliminary plat shall be accurately
drawn to a scale of one inch equals 100 feet and include:
            1.   County parcel identification number(s) (PIN);
            2.   Legal description of parcel(s) to be divided;
            3.   North arrow;
            4.   Zoning of parcel(s) and surrounding parcels;
            5.   Subdivision name;
            6.   Name, address and phone number of all owners and developers,
if not the same;
            7.   Acreage of parcel(s) to be divided;
            8.   Scale;
            9.   Benchmarks;
            10.   Certification of registered land surveyor and date of survey;
and
            11.   Signature block for plat officer, with signature line not
more than one inch from a side or bottom edge.
         (c)   Existing site conditions. It is important to understand existing
site conditions as they will aid in determining the suitability of the site for
the proposed development and, at a minimum, shall include:
            1.   Subdivision boundary and existing lot lines of parcel;
            2.   All easements on, and adjacent, to the parcel;
            3.   Streets:
               a.   Name;
               b.   Right-of-way width;
               c.   Location;
               d.   Type or classification;
               e.   Width, type and elevation of surfacing; and
               f.   Location or existence of curb, gutter, culverts and
sidewalks.
            4.   Utilities:
               a.   Type;
               b.   Location, including transmission lines and support
structures;
               c.   Size and flow direction of water and sewer mains; and
               d.   If none available, then statement indicating direction and
distance to nearest service location.
            5.   Natural conditions:
               a.   Watercourses and ponds;
               b.   Wooded areas; and
               c.   Other significant features.
            6.   Other improvements:
               a.   Structures, and indicate use and/or type;
               b.   Wells and septic fields; and
               c.   Other significant features.
            7.   Ground elevations, based on U.S.G.S. datum, show contours at
vertical intervals as follows:
               a.   Slope of 6% or less: two- foot intervals;
               b.   Slope of over six %, but less than 15%: five-foot
intervals; and
               c.   Slope of over 15%: ten- foot intervals.
         (d)   Proposed site conditions. Information regarding the proposed
design of the subdivision shall be imposed upon the existing site information
and, at a minimum, shall include:
            1.   Lots:
               a.   Lot lines;
               b.   Sequential numbers; and
               c.   Lot sizes (to hundredth of an acre).
            2.   Building setback lines:
               a.   Front/street;
               b.   Side yard; and
               c.   Rear yard.
            3.   Streets:
               a.   Names. All new street names, for both public streets and
private streets, shall be reviewed and approved by the Village Board or other
committee as deemed appropriate by the Village Board;
               b.   Right-of-way widths; and
               c.   Approximate grade.
            4.   Sites for either public or non-public uses; and
            5.   Proposed methods of water supply and sewage disposal.
      (3)   Preliminary plat review and response.
         (a)   Purpose. The subdivision and development of land is an
occurrence that will have a long-term impact upon both the site and adjacent
properties, regardless of size or scope of the development proposal. The
approval process needs to recognize this impact, and also recognize the
legitimate interests of various parties, including the developer, adjacent
property owners, tenants and the community as a whole. The village will strive
to provide a thorough review of submissions in a timely manner.
         (b)   Other agencies and review. Eleven copies of the plat shall be
submitted by the developer to the village to be distributed to:
            1.   County Clerk;
            2.   County Engineer;
            3.   Township Road Commis- sioner;
            4.   State Department of Transportation (if necessary);
            5.   Village and County Health Department;
            6.   Soil and Water Conservation District;
            7.   School district parcel is located within;
            8.   Municipality, if within one and one-half mile review
authority;
            9.   Park district (if applicable); and
            10.   Fire protection district.
         (c)   Review process.
            1.   The agencies receiving a copy of the preliminary plat shall
comment within 25 days so that the village can send a coordinated response to
the developer.
            2.   The village shall review the preliminary plat, checking the
content against the items listed herein.
            3.   The village shall send to the developer a coordinated response
no more than 30 working days after receipt of a preliminary plat. Situations
when the 30 days shall be extended are as follows:
               a.   Filing of an incomplete submittal, in which case the 30
days shall commence the day on which a complete preliminary plat is submitted;
               b.   Need for filing of subdivision waiver, in which the 30 days
shall commence the day the Village Board approves or denies any required
waiver; or
               c.   A municipality with one mile and one-half jurisdiction has
an approval process greater than 30 days. The village’s 30-day review period
shall commence upon receipt of any required approval from said municipality.
         (d)   Action by the village’s Plat Officer. Following the review of a
preliminary plat and any additional information submitted with the preliminary
plat, the village’s Plat Officer shall take one of the following actions.
            1.   Approval. The village’s Plat Officer may approve a preliminary
plat conditionally or unconditionally.
            2.   Rejection. The village’s Plat Officer may reject a preliminary
plat when deficiencies require a resubmittal. The village’s Plat Officer, in
such a case, shall identify in writing the deficiencies.
            3.   Expiration. The preliminary plat shall be deemed approved if
the 30-day review period, as extended if applicable, expires with no action by
the village’s Plat Officer.
         (e)   Term of approval. The village’s approval of a preliminary plat
shall be valid for one year from the date of approval, or a longer period of
time specified, in writing, by the village’s Plat Officer.
   (E)   Construction plans for public improvements.
      (1)   Submittal. Within one year of the approval of the preliminary plat,
or such other time as the village’s Plat Officer may allow in writing, the
developer shall submit three complete sets of construction plans for public
improvements that are under the jurisdiction of the village.
      (2)   Form and data. The construction plans shall be prepared by the
developer’s registered professional engineer, and shall include, at a minimum,
the following information:
         (a)   Streets.
            1.   Plans and specifications for the construction of any and all
streets, pursuant to the village code; and
            2.   Cost and quantity estimates.
         (b)   Erosion and storm water control. Cost and quantity estimates.
      (3)   Review and comment.
         (a)   Distribution. The plans shall be distributed by this Department
to the following review agencies:
            1.   Planning and Zoning Department;
            2.   County Highway Department; and
            3.   Erosion, Sediment and Storm Water Control Review Consultant.
         (b)   Period of review.
            1.   Streets. The Village Engineer shall submit to the Plat Officer
any comments in a timely manner so that the Plat Officer can send a coordinated
response to the developer within 45 days of receipt of the construction plans.
If the Plat Officer does not notify the developer of any comments within the
specified 45 days, then the construction plans shall be approved as submitted.
            2.   Erosion and storm water control. The erosion, sediment and
storm water control review shall be completed in a timely manner. If the Plat
Officer does not notify the developer of any comments within 45 days, then the
construction plans shall be approved as submitted.
      (4)   Approval.
         (a)   Streets. Construction plans for the streets shall be approved
when the submitted plans have met or exceeded all of the specifications for
street construction as determined by the Village Engineer.
         (b)   Erosion and storm water control. Construction plans for erosion
and storm water control shall be approved when the submitted plans meet or
exceed all of the village specifications for erosion and storm water control of
this chapter as determined by the Village Engineer.
   (F)   Financial security. Appropriate means of financial security shall be
required when improvements are proposed as part of the development. The
security shall be for 100% of the estimated cost of construction of the streets
and erosion and storm water control systems in major subdivisions. Financial
security shall be maintained by the developer until said improvements have been
completed and approved.
      (1)   Security may be in the form of one of the following:
         (a)   Irrevocable letter of credit;
         (b)   Surety bond; and
         (c)   Cash escrow account.
      (2)   Inspection of improvements. The village’s Plat Officer shall
coordinate inspections of improvements with the Village Engineer and the
developer’s licensed engineer for street construction for erosion and storm
water control.
         (a)   Streets. Inspections of the proposed streets shall conform with
village requirements.
         (b)   Erosion and storm water control. The Village Engineer shall
conduct as many inspections as needed throughout the construction of the
improvements, including a final inspection for final compliance and release of
financial security to the developer.
      (3)   Maintenance before release. The developer shall be responsible for
the maintenance of all improvements until the release of the financial
security. Where a subdivision has been platted in phases, the developer shall
be responsible for the improvements of the respective phase, and those
improvements applicable to the entire subdivision. The developer shall also be
responsible for the following.
         (a)   Snow removal. The developer shall be required to provide snow
removal on all streets until the required financial security has been released.
         (b)   Erosion control. All exposed earth surfaces and areas prone to
erosion caused by the construction of required improvements shall be properly
protected in accordance with applicable provisions of the village code.
         (c)   Debris removal. The developer shall clean and maintain or cause
to be cleaned and maintained, all improvements until the final acceptance of
said improvements. The improvements shall be kept free from debris, sediment
deposits, trash and other extraneous material prior to acceptance and at such
other times during construction as the county may deem necessary to prevent the
creation of a public nuisance.
      (4)   Release of financial security. The village’s Plat Officer shall not
release the financial security until the completed improvements have been
approved, as determined below.
         (a)   The developer’s engineer shall submit to the village’s Plat
Officer documentation that has been certified and contains at a minimum the
following:
            1.   A statement that the construction of the proposed improvements
are complete, and the proposed improvement have been built to the approved
construction plans;
            2.   A request for a final inspection of the improvements; and
            3.   As-built plans certifying the actual location of all
improvements and containing at a minimum the following:
               a.   The location of all improvements as shown on the
construction plans approved by the Village Plat Officer, Erosion Control
Administrator and Village Engineer;
               b.   The location of all improvements as built in the field; and
               c.   Certification by the developer’s engineer as regard to the
accuracy of these plans.
         (b)   The Village Engineer, developer and developer’s engineer shall
visit the site and inspect the improvements. If the streets are in compliance,
the Village Engineer shall notify the Village Plat Officer in writing of
compliance. If the erosion and storm water control improvements are in
compliance.
         (c)   After notification from the Village Engineer as to the
compliance of all street improvements, to the compliance of all erosion control
and storm water improvements, the Plat Officer may release the financial
security. The developer shall have the option of having a partial amount of the
financial security for the street improvements released as outlined below.
            1.   Submittal. After the filing of financial security, the
developer shall submit the executed original Mylar tracing of the intended
final plat, together with at least ten copies, all with original signatures.
            2.   Approval. Within 15 working days after receipt of the final
plat and any additional information submitted with the final plat, the Plat
Officer shall approve the final plat if it meets the requirements of the
village code. If the plat does not meet the requirements of the village code,
the village’s Plat Officer shall identify in writing the deficiencies.
            3.   Form and data. The final plat of a major subdivision shall
include all of the area of the approved preliminary plat.
               a.   Land. Reference shall comply with the Plat Act, being 765
ILCS 205/1 et seq., to which all dimensions, angles, bearing and similar data
on the final plat shall have accurate dimensions, bearing or deflection angles,
and radii arcs, and central angle of all curves, and include:
                  i.   Subdivision bound- ary and individual lot lines;
                  ii.   Titles, scale, north arrow and date;
                  iii.   Right-of-way lines of adjacent streets and those
street names;
                  iv.   Easements and other rights-of-way, including their
location and dimensions;
                  v.   Minimum setback lines on all lots;
                  vi.   Location and description of monuments, according to the
Plat Act, being 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.;
                  vii.   Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining
platted lands; and
                  viii.   If not for residential use, stated purpose for which
sites are dedicated or reserved.
               b.   Certificates. Required verbiage of certificates are found
in §
152.029 of this chapter. All certificates shall be sealed or notarized as
noted.
                  i.   State registered land surveyor:
                     (A)   A statement as to accuracy of survey and plat with
the surveyor’s signature and seal affixed;
                     (B)   A statement that the land being subdivided does or
does not lie within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits of any
municipality exercising extraterritorial subdivision control; and
                     (C)   A statement that to the best of their knowledge and
belief the drainage of surface waters will not be changed by the construction
of such subdivision or any part thereof, or, that if such surface water
drainage will be changed, reasonable provision has been made for collection and
diversion of such surface waters into public areas, or drains which the
developer has a right to use, and that such surface waters will be planned for
in accordance with generally accepted engineering practices so as to reduce the
likelihood of damage to the adjoining property because of the construction of
the subdivision.
                  ii.   Statement by the developer reserving any and all
easements and any sites for public uses;
                  iii.   County Clerk’s certificate, signed and sealed, stating
that all taxes are paid to date;
                  iv.   Health Department’s certificate, signed, stating
compliance with all Health Department regulations;
                  v.   Certificate of all appropriate road officials, which may
be the Township Road Commissioner, County Engineer and/or IDOT District
Engineer, stating that the subdivision has been approved by that road authority
with respect to access and then signed;
                  vi.   Certificate of current ownership of parcel being split,
stating that the person(s) signing the plats are owners of parcel being split
and have caused said major subdivision to be prepared, and to the best of their
knowledge the school district(s) in which the parcel is located. Said
certificate shall be signed by all the owners and then notarized by a notary
public;
                  vii.   If the subdivision is within the area of jurisdiction
of a city or village exercising extraterritorial subdivision approval, it shall
have endorsed and signed thereon the requisite municipal approvals;
                  viii.   Certificate of the village’s Plat Officer, signed and
sealed, stating that conformance with the village’s Comprehensive Land Use Plan
and the provisions of the appropriate sections of this chapter and that the
developer has posted a good and sufficient financial security with the County
Clerk in the penal sum sufficient to cover the estimate by a qualified engineer
of the probable expenditures necessary to enable the developer to conform with
the standards of street and erosion and storm water control construction
established pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. The financial security
shall be conditioned upon faithful adherence to the rules and regulations
contained in this chapter; and
                  ix.   Any protective covenants in form of recording.
               c.   Required notations. The following shall be required on all
major subdivision as noted.
                  i.   Water note. The parcel shall be served by a public water
provider or water district or by a community water supply system, therefor:
“Water for this parcel is provided by _______. Notice of hook-up is required
prior to start of construction” shall appear on the major subdivision final
plat.
                  ii.   Long driveways. For any parcel being created by major
subdivision that extends greater than 500 feet from the adjacent right-of-way
and street, the following shall appear on the final plat: “NOTICE TO THE
PUBLIC: The creation of long private driveways may result in increased response
time or inaccessibility by emergency service vehicles”.
                  iii.   Zoning. Every major subdivision shall note the zoning
of the parcel on the day of recording with the following note, “On (date)
        , this parcel is known to be zoned               ”.
                  iv.   Floodplain. The surveyor shall determine if the parcel
is located within any regulatory floodplain or floodway. If so, it shall be
noted graphically on the final plat, and textually with the following language,
“This parcel is located in a special flood hazard area. Zone           ,
Community Panel           . Improvements to this parcel may require special
approval”.
                  v.   Waivers. The surveyor shall include as a textual note
all waivers that were approved by the Village Board, including the section of
this code from which the waiver was sought.
               d.   Layout of the final plat.
                  i.   All final plats shall be submitted on sheets of Mylar
and paper, respectively, that are 16 inches by 22 inches.
                  ii.   All information on the final plat shall be legible.
                  iii.   All datum and legal descriptions shall be organized
and listed together.
                  iv.   All certificates shall be located no more than one inch
from any edge of the plat.
                  v.   There shall be a one- inch margin around the entire
final plat.
                  vi.   All signature blocks shall be flush with the required
one-inch margin.
                  vii.   All notes shall be organized and listed together on
the plat.
                  viii.   An area three inches by three inches in the lower
left corner of the final plat shall be bordered and left blank for the Recorder
of Deeds recording stamp and information.
   (G)   Recording. The developer shall have the responsibility and bear the
cost of recording the final plat in the County Recorder of Deeds office after
it has been approved by the Plat Officer and all appropriate signatures
obtained.
(Ord. 16-02-, passed - -2016)
§ 152.029 CERTIFICATES AND NOTATIONS.
   In order to allow for accurate, consistent and efficient review of
development proposals, the following language shall be required for all
certificates and notations. As stated above, all certificates are required to
be no more than one inch from any edge of the survey.
(Ord. 16-02-, passed - -2016)
PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 152.040 PREPARATION AND FILING.
   (A)   The subdivider shall cause to be prepared a preliminary plat and shall
file five copies and other required material with the Plat Officer in
application for preliminary approval.
   (B)   The application for preliminary approval shall include the following:
      (1)   Location map. Sketch map showing relationship of the proposed
subdivision to the streets and other community facilities serving it. Such map
shall include:
         (a)   Subdivision name;
         (b)   Outline of area to be subdivided;
         (c)   Existing streets and village utilities on adjoining property;
and
         (d)   Norm point, scale and date.
      (2)   Preliminary plat. A preliminary plat of the subdivision drawn to
the scale of not smaller than one inch to 100 feet and including:
         (a)   Name of the proposed subdivision, boundary line bearings and
distances and acreage;
         (b)   Name and address of owner;
         (c)   Names of persons who prepared the plat; owner’s attorney,
representative or agent;
         (d)   North point, graphic scale and date;
         (e)   Contours at five-foot intervals or less;
         (f)   Location of existing lot lines, streets, public utilities, water
mains, sewers, drainpipes, culverts, watercourses, bridges, railroads and
buildings in the proposed subdivision;
         (g)   Layout of proposed blocks (if used) and lots including the
dimensions of each and the lot and block number in numerical order;
         (h)   Location and widths, other dimensions and names of the proposed
streets, alleys, roads, utility and other easements, parks and other open
spaces or reserved areas;
         (i)   Grades of proposed streets and alleys;
         (j)   A cross-section of the proposed streets showing roadway
locations, type of curb and gutter, paving and sidewalks to be installed;
         (k)   The layout of proposed water mains and sanitary sewers;
         (l)   The drainage of the land including proposed storm sewers,
ditches, culverts, bridges and other structures; and
         (m)   Proposed sidewalks.
      (3)   Preliminary plat subdivision fee. A fee in the amount as set by the
Board of Trustees from time to time for each lot in the proposed subdivision,
with a minimum total charge as set by the Board of Trustees from time to time
will be required for submittal of the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.041 REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Review by Village Engineer, Plat Officer and Superintendent of Public
Works.
      (1)   Immediately upon the filing of five copies of the preliminary plat,
the Plat Officer shall retain one copy for his or her file (on which copy is to
be indicated Planning Commission and/or Board action of the plat) and shall
distribute the remaining copies of the plat as follows: one copy to the Village
Engineer; two copies to the Planning Commission; and, where proposed plat is
outside the village limits, but within the area of subdivision jurisdiction,
one copy to the Superintendent of Public Works for the appropriate county
involved.
      (2)   The Village Engineer, Plat Officer and, where concerned, the
Superintendent of Public Works, shall have opportunity to review the plat and
application materials to assure the proposed subdivision complies with
applicable regulations and requirements, and report upon such to the Planning
Commission. The Plat Officer shall confer with the appropriate Zoning Officer
to determine that the proposed subdivision complies with Ch. 154 of this code
of ordinances. The Plat Officer shall also report upon conditions of the site
of adjacent properties, which while not evident in the application materials,
may affect development upon the site.
   (B)   Review by Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall review
the preliminary plat and application materials to assure compliance with the
village plan and official map of the village. Particular note shall be made
that any planned major streets or other planned public facilities of the
community fall in the area of the subdivision being reviewed are accommodated
in the proposed plat; the Planning Commission shall review the reports of the
Plat Officer and Village Engineer with regard to the proposed subdivision.
Within 45 days of the subdivider’s filing for preliminary approval, the
Planning Commission shall make known to the Board and Village Clerk that the
preliminary plat has been approved, approved subject to modification or
disapproved; if disapproved, the Planning Commission shall submit to the
subdivider, with a copy to the Village Clerk, a statement setting forth reasons
for disapproval, indicating particularly the aspects in which the proposed plat
fails to conform to official map and other requirements of this chapter.
Failure of the Planning Commission to act within 45 days of filing the plat
shall constitute approval of the plat unless, however, an extension of time is
mutually agreed upon by the subdivider and Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission shall maintain one copy of the preliminary plat in its files with
Planning Commission action noted upon it.
   (C)   Approval or rejection by Board. If the preliminary plat is approved by
the Planning Commission, the Board shall approve or reject the preliminary plat
within 30 days after the first regular Board meeting following the action of
the Planning Commission; providing, however, that, any action not concurring
with the Planning Commission’s action shall require a two-thirds vote of the
entire Board membership.
   (D)   Action on preliminary plat to be filed with Village Clerk. A certified
copy of the order or resolution approving the preliminary plat or disapproving
the preliminary plat, and stating the reasons thereafter, shall be attached to
a copy of the preliminary plat by the Village Clerk and filed in the office of
the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.042 APPROVAL NOT TO CONSTITUTE SUBDIVISION.
   Approval of the preliminary plat by the Board does not constitute approval
of the subdivision, but is merely an authorization to the subdivider to proceed
with the preparation of the final plat.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.043 TIME LIMITATION OF PRELIMINARY APPROVAL.
   Approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective for 12 months; except,
however, the Planning Commission, upon written request of the subdivider and
advise of the Plat Officer, may grant an extension of time. If the final plat
is not filed with the Plat Officer within 12 months of Board approval of the
preliminary plat, or authorized extension thereof, all previous approvals of
the preliminary plat shall become null and void.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
FINAL PLAT
§ 152.055 PREPARATION AND FILING.
   (A)   Following approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall cause
to be prepared a final plat and other material required in filing for final
approval.
   (B)   Application for final approval shall consist of filing with the Plat
Officer the reproducible final plat and four copies and such additional
information outlined here:
      (1)   Final plat. Final plat drawn to the scale of not smaller than one
inch equals 100 feet. The final plat may include all of only part of the
preliminary plat and should include or indicate the following:
         (a)   Accurate tract boundary lines with dimensions and angles, which
provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of not more than one foot
in 3,000 feet;
         (b)   Property lines of residential lots and other sites with accurate
dimensions of all straight lines and arcs, bearing of property lines or other
means of accurately locating property lines;
         (c)   Accurate bearings and distances to known monuments;
         (d)   Accurate locations of existing and recorded streets intersecting
the boundaries of the tract;
         (e)   Accurate legal description of the property;
         (f)   Street names;
         (g)   Curve notes, complete and accurate for all street curves
included on the plan;
         (h)   Street right-of-way lines;
         (i)   Lot and block numbers;
         (j)   Property to be dedicated or reserved for public, semi-public or
community use, with accurate dimensions;
         (k)   Markers or monuments indicating location, type, material and
size;
         (l)   Subdivision name;
         (m)   Name and address of the owner and subdivider;
         (n)   North point, scale and date;
         (o)   Certification by a registered state land surveyor certifying to
accuracy of survey and plat;
         (p)   Certification of dedication of streets and other public property
with notary’s seal;
         (q)   Final approval by Board and Planning Commission with signature
and date spaces for Mayor, Village Clerk and Planning Commission Chairperson
respectively;
         (r)   Sidewalks required by the village; and
         (s)   Storm water management.
      (2)   Other required documents.
         (a)   Certification of title showing that applicant is the landowner;
         (b)   Restrictive covenants, if any, in form for recording;
         (c)   Subdivider’s estimate of cost of minimum improvements required,
and acknowledged statement of Village Engineer concurring with the subdivider’s
estimate;
         (d)   Cross-section and profiles of streets showing grades approved by
the Village Engineer;
         (e)   Approved subdivision improvements, plans and specifications; and
         (f)   1.   Completion of project. At the time of filing an application
for approval of a final plat, an owner or subdivider shall submit to the
Village Clerk an agreement that shall state that the improvements required by
this chapter will be constructed according to the plans and specifications
approved by the Village Engineer within two years after approval of the final
plat and before final acceptance of improvements and release of bond.
            2.   Filing of surety bond.
               a.   The subdivider shall file with the Village Clerk a surety
bond insuring the satisfactory construction of all improvements required by
this chapter within two years after approval of the final plat. This bond shall
also guarantee the improvements against faulty materials and workmanship for
one year following written acceptance by the Village Engineer. No such bond
shall be accepted unless it is enforceable by and payable to the village in a
sum at least equal to the cost of constructing the improvements, as estimated
by the Village Engineer, and in a form with surety and conditions approved by
the Village Attorney. The Village Attorney, after approving said bond, shall
transmit a copy thereof to the Village Engineer.
               b.   Instead of the bond, the owner or subdivider may provide an
escrow account to be held at a local bank or loan association conditioned upon
the satisfactory construction of the improvements that are set forth on the
final plat, the amount of the escrow account to be equal to the estimated cost
of said improvements, as estimated by the Village Engineer, plus an additional
10%. All withdrawals from the escrow account shall be made subject to the
release of the village by the Village Engineer and the same may be paid as work
progresses and is completed subject also to the said Engineer’s approval. Upon
completion of the improvements and written acceptance of the Village Engineer,
the additional 10% of the escrow account shall remain upon deposit until the
expiration of one year from the date of completion of the improvement, and
until approval and final release by the Village Engineer. The form of all
escrow accounts or agreements shall be subject to the approval of the Village
Attorney.
               c.   Instead of a bond or escrow account, the owner or
subdivider may provide an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount equal to
the estimated cost of said improvements as estimated by the Village Engineer,
plus an additional 10%. Upon completion of the improvements and written
acceptance of the Village Engineer, the estimated cost of improvements may be
deleted from the letter of credit and the additional 10% of the irrevocable
letter of credit shall remain in force until the expiration of one year from
the date of the completion of the improvements and until approval and final
release by the Village Engineer. The form of all irrevocable letter of credits
shall be subject to the approval of the Village Attorney.
               d.   If, but only if, at the expiration of one year from the
date of acceptance of the improvements, the improvements are free of defects,
the Village Engineer shall release the bond or escrow account or letter of
credit. If, at the end of said year, the improvements are not free from
defects, the Village Engineer shall, upon authorization by the Board, cause the
defects to be remedied and may use the bond or escrow account as a source of
funds to remedy such defects.
      (3)   Final plat subdivision fee.
         (a)   A fee in the amount as set by the Board of Trustees from time to
time, plus one additional dollar for each lot over 12 lots will be required at
the time of submittal of the final plat.
         (b)   In addition to the preliminary and final plat subdivision fees
specified herein, the subdivider shall reimburse the village for reproducing
plats and for all engineering expenses of checking plats, water, sewer and
other plans, and for inspection of construction of the facilities required by
this chapter.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.056 REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   Immediately upon filing of the reproducible final plat and four copies, the
Plat Officer, maintaining one copy for his or her own files (on which is to be
indicated Board action on the plat), shall distribute the balance of the final
plats as follows: one copy each to the Village Engineer and Village Clerk; the
reproducible plat and one copy to the Planning Commission.
   (A)   Review by Planning Commission.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall review the comments of the Plat
Officer and Village Engineer and make its own study to assure compliance with
these regulations and substantial conformity to the approved preliminary plat
or conditionally approved plat subject to modifications requested.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall approve or disapprove the final plat
within 45 days after submission of final plat materials by the subdivider to
the Village Clerk; failure of the Planning Commission to act within 45 days
shall be deemed to be approval; providing, however, that, the subdivider and
the Board may mutually agree to an extension of time.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall make known immediately to the Village
Clerk and Board its action upon the final plat.
   (B)   Approval or rejection by Board.
      (1)   The Board shall, after being notified of the Planning Commission’s
action on the plat, or after the time of any extension thereof for the Planning
Commission to take action, approve or reject the final plat.
      (2)   Any action not in accord with the Planning Commission’s action
shall only be by a two- thirds vote of the entire Board.
   (C)   Action on final plat to be filed in office of Village Clerk. A
certified copy of the order or resolution of the corporate authorities
approving the final plat or disapproving the final plat, and stating the
reasons therefor, shall be attached to a copy of the plat by the Village Clerk
and filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.057 TIME LIMITATION FOR RECORDING OF PLAT.
   The final plat shall be filed with the County Recorder of the appropriate
county by the developer within 60 days of date of approval by Board and, if not
filed within such time, shall have no validity and shall not be recorded
without re-certification by the Village Clerk and re-approval by the Board.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.058 RELEASE EXPIRATION OR EXTENSION OF SUBDIVISION GUARANTEE.
   (A)   Prior to the release or expiration of the subdivision guarantee, the
Board will request the Plat Officer or his or her representative to certify
that he was notified by the subdivider to witness the installation of required
improvements at key times so as to be able to certify that all required
improvements were properly installed and that neither the subdivision as built,
nor improvements installed, deviate from the final approved plat.
   (B)   (1)   Should the required improvements not be completed within the
duration of the subdivision guarantee, the subdivider may request the Board for
an extension of time for the installation of the balance of improvements.
      (2)   Should such a request be granted, the subdivider shall deposit with
the village a subdivision guarantee for the length of extension granted.
      (3)   Subdivision guarantee shall be approved as to form and type by the
Village Attorney, and as to adequacy of amount by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
DESIGN STANDARDS AND IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.070 GENERAL STREET LAYOUT, BLOCKS AND LOTTING.
   (A)   Major and collector streets to be continued. New subdivisions shall
make provision for the continuation of existing major and collector streets, or
provisions for later construction of proposed major and collector streets, as
indicated in the official map herein and/or on the village plan.
   (B)   All lots to have access on public street. Subdividing of land for
residential use shall be such as to provide that each lot shall front on an
existing or proposed public way.
   (C)   Streets to intersect at right angles.
      (1)   Intersections of streets shall be at nearly right angles as
possible.
      (2)   No street shall intersect any other street at less than 60 degrees.
   (D)   Length and widths of blocks.
      (1)   In general, block lengths shall be not less than 400 feet, nor more
than 2,000 feet; blocks shall be sufficient width to accommodate two tiers of
lots.
      (2)   The subdivider may be required to construct and dedicate pedestrian
crosswalks in blocks over 1,000 feet long.
   (E)   Half-streets not acceptable. Half-streets, based on the expectation of
the other one-half of the street being developed at the time the adjoining
property is subdivided, are not normally acceptable as good land platting
practice and will not normally be permitted.
   (F)   Reserve strips not allowed. Reserve strips, created by the platting of
property line streets several feet inside the property line with the objective
the receiving of remuneration for access to an improved street, will not be
allowed.
   (G)   Reverse frontage not normally allowed. Reverse frontage or double
frontage, whereby both front and back of lot face a principal street, will not
be allowed, except in situations where one of the streets is a major highway on
which the fronting of local properties would not be desirable.
   (H)   “Buffer treatment” may be required between proposed subdivision and
adjacent uses. Where a proposed subdivision contains an existing or proposed
major street or abuts such a street or land use which may have an adverse
effect on the residential subdivision, the Planning Commission may require some
buffer treatment such as frontage streets, reverse frontage with screen
planting along rear lot lines, deep lots or any such treatment which may
protect the proposed residential subdivision from these outside influences.
   (I)   Lot lines to be at right angles to street lines. Lot lines shall be
substantially at right angles or radial to street lines.
   (J)   Corner lots to be extra-width. Corner lots for residential use shall
have extra width to permit appropriate building setback form both streets.
   (K)   Building setback lines to be established. Building setback lines,
appropriate for the locations of the subdivision and the type of development
contemplated, shall be established on all lots; providing, however, that, such
setback lines are not less than the applicable standards of the appropriate
zoning provisions.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.071 STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Right-of-way and pavement width. Right-of- way and pavement widths
will be provided as follows:
Street Type Right-of-Way Pavement Parking
Street Type                  Right-of-Way      Pavement        Parking
Arterial                     100 ft. - 120 ft. 36 ft.          Prohibited
Collector street/road        68 ft.            38 ft.          Prohibited
Cul-de-sac                   100-foot diameter 80-ft. diameter Prohibited
Local street/road (1)        60 ft.            30 ft. - 36 ft. Permitted
Major highway (County Route) 67 ft. - 75 ft.   24 ft.          Prohibited
Major highway (IL or US)     100 ft. - 120 ft. 24 ft.          Prohibited
NOTES TO TABLE:
(1) with parking on one or both sides
 
   (B)   Sidewalk widths. Sidewalks shall be of the following widths:
 
Where Adjacent To                              Width
Combination curb and sidewalk                  5.5 feet
Local streets and roads                        5 ft.
Major or collector highways, streets and roads 5 ft.
Pedestrian crosswalks (through blocks)         5 ft. (10 ft. ROW)
 
   (C)   Maximum and minimum street grades. Street grades as measured along the
centerline shall not be less than 0.4% and shall not be greater than the
following:
      (1)   Major streets or highways: 8%;
      (2)   Collector roads or streets: 10%; and
      (3)   Local roads or streets: 12%.
   (D)   Necessary utility easements to be provided. Utility easements across
lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall be provided not less than ten
feet in width.
   (E)   Maintenance easements to be provided for natural watercourses. Where a
subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, there shall be provided a storm
water easement conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse and
approved as to alignment and width by the Village Engineer.
   (F)   Intersection corners to be rounded. Property lines at street
intersections shall be rounded with a radius of 20 feet. The Planning
Commission may permit, as suitable equivalent, the use of comparable cutoffs or
chords in place of such round comers.
   (G)   Not more than two streets to intersect. Intersection of more than two
streets at a point will be prohibited.
   (H)   Obstructions to visibility at intersections prohibited. There shall be
no obstruction of any type to visibility at street intersections within the
sight triangle formed by the center of the intersection and two points:
      (1)   Seventy five feet distant, each point being on the centerline of a
frontage road or street, each designated local; or
      (2)   One hundred twenty five feet distant where one or both of the
fronting streets is designated a collector or major street or highway.
   (I)   Connecting street lines to be joined by curves. Connecting street
lines deflecting from each other, at any one point by more than ten degrees
shall be joined by curves, the inner radius of which shall be not less than 350
feet of a collector street and 100 feet for a local street.
   (J)   Reverse curves to be connected by tangent. A tangent or portion of
street in straight alignment and of 100 feet in length shall be introduced
between reverse curves on major and collector highways, streets and roads.
   (K)   Cul-de-sac or “dead-end streets”. Cul-de-sac or dead-end streets,
designated to be so permanently, shall not be longer than 500 feet and shall be
provided at the closed end with a right-of-way and pavement diameter meeting
the minimum requirements of these standards, as stated herein.
   (L)   Necessary utility easements to be provided. Utility easements across
lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall be provided not less than ten
feet in width.
   (M)   Maintenance easement to be provided for natural watercourses. Where a
subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, there shall be provided a storm
water easement conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse and
approved as to alignment and width by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.072 MONUMENTS.
   Monuments shall be placed at all block corners, angle points, points of
curves in streets and at intermediate points as shall be required by the Plat
Officer. Permanent monuments erected in such subdivisions of galvanized iron
pipe shall be not less than one inch in diameter and 24 inches in length; and,
if stone or concrete, shall be not less than four inches in diameter and 24
inches in length.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 152.073 UTILITY AND STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   Utilities and street improvements shall be provided in each new subdivision
in accordance with the following schedules.
   (A)   Industrial, commercial and institutional subdivisions. Utility and
street improvements on industrial, commercial and institutional subdivisions as
required by the Board with advice of Planning Commission; providing, however,
that, in no case will the requirements be less than required for a residential
subdivision.
   (B)   Conformance. All public water supply, sanitary sewer, storm drainage
systems shall conform to the latest edition of the Standard Specifications for
Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois; and, the appropriate fire
protection district, public water company and sanitary district that has
jurisdiction over these utilities.
   (C)   Residential subdivisions. Utility and street improvements for
residential subdivisions in accordance with the following.
      (1)   Water supply.
         (a)   Public water supply is required within the corporate limits;
public or private water supply as approved by the Planning Commission outside
the village limits, but within the area of subdivision jurisdiction.
         (b)   Where public water supply is constructed, stub-up lines shall be
located at each lot and shall extend at least one foot (V) inside the property
line. The curb above such stub-up line shall be marked with the letter “W” or
other suitable marker.
         (c)   Water meters are required before any premises to be served by
the village’s water supply are occupied, and shall be installed in accordance
with
Chapter 50 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Sewage disposal.
         (a)   Connection to the public sanitary sewer system is required
within the corporate limits; public or private sewage disposal as approved by
the Planning Commission outside the village limits but within the area of
subdivision jurisdiction.
         (b)   Where public sewers are constructed, stub-up lines shall be
located at each lot and shall extend at least one foot inside the property
line. The curb above such stub-up line shall be marked with the letter “S” or
other suitable marker.
         (c)   1.   Pumping stations required by virtue of the subdivision
shall be installed by the developer as approved by the Board.
            2.   Pumping station, force main, equipment, site and easements
will be dedicated to the village or its assignee, prior to the issuance of
building permits.
            3.   If a greater-capacity system is required by the village, the
subdivider shall be required to pay only that portion of the cost attributable
to his or her subdivision.
            4.   Future subdivisions desiring to utilize such pumping stations
shall reimburse the village on a prorated basis for the village’s investment
involved.
      (3)   Storm drainage.
         (a)   Surface drainage shall be provided for in approved paved gutter,
grass swales or piped underground channels, construction, capacity and flow of
which are approved by the Village Engineer.
         (b)   Street grades shall meet the foregoing design requirements and
shall be approved in profile and cross-section by the Village Engineer. Storm
water detention facilities shall be constructed for all developments using the
method outlined in the latest edition of the Illinois Department of
Transportation’s Drainage Manual. Rainfall intensity shall be from the latest
technical letters of the State Water Survey. All “dry bottom” detention basins
shall be designed with the minimum bottom slope of 1.5%. A minimum slope of 1%
may be used if an underdrain tile system is installed in the basin. All
detention basins shall have a minimum of one-foot freeboard above the 100-year
high water elevation and an emergency overflow capable of carrying the 100-year
discharge.
         (c)   The developer or owner, upon direction of the village, may pay a
fee instead of providing on-site storm water detention. The fee shall be based
upon the prorated share of the village’s cost or expected cost to provide a
regional detention facility. Cost shall be prorated based upon the amount of
run-off contributing to the regional detention facility.
      (4)   Street right-of-way, pavement, curb and gutter. The subdivider
shall be responsible for the provision of right-of-way, street improvements,
and specifications of construction as indicated on the following schedules. All
street, road, sidewalk and the like improvements shall be constructed in
accordance with the latest edition of IDOT Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction in Illinois.
Construction Specifications of Street and Road Improvement
Road Type Base Course Surface Course
Construction Specifications of Street and Road Improvement
Road Type                 Base Course                Surface Course
                          Combination concrete curb and sidewalk, where
                          required, shall be of P.C. concrete, 4-in. minimum
                          thickness. Width of the walk shall be 5.5 ft. The
Combination concrete curb curb height above the street grade shall be a minimum
and sidewalk              of 4 in. to a maximum of 6 in. The curb height shall
                          be adjusted as necessary to maintain positive
                          drainage to the street from adjacent property areas.
                          Sidewalk shall slope at 2% towards the street
Curb and gutter           Type B-6.18 combination curb and gutter in accordance
                          with IDOT Highway Standards
                          8 in. aggregate base, CA 6 1-1/2 in. Bit. Cone.
Gravel base bit. surface  or CA 10                   Binder Course, 1 W Bit.
                                                     Cone. Surf. Course CL I
P.C. concrete             Compacted earth material   6 in. thickness, portland
                                                     cement concrete
Shoulders                 6 in. aggregate shoulder Type B
                          Sidewalks, where required, shall be of P.C. concrete,
Sidewalk                  4-in. minimum thickness with pitch and surface to
                          assure adequate drainage. Where sidewalk cross-
                          driveways, they shall be 6-in. minimum thickness
 
      (5)   Setbacks from proposed right-of-way. Building setbacks from
proposed edge of right-of-way of major streets or highways planned for future
construction shall be not less than the appropriate front, rear or side yard of
that particular zoning district.
      (6)   Setbacks on existing streets or roads. Building setbacks on
existing streets or roads on which the right-of-way width is indicated to be
below the minimum standard width as herein indicated for such type road, shall
be measured from the edge of the proposed width. (In effect, the setback will
be increased by one-half the distance the right-of-way is below standard.)
      (7)   Planting strips. Planting strips in roadways shall be approved by
the Village Board as to gradient, drainage and surface treatment.
      (8)   Street names. Street name signs conforming to the standard for the
village shall be provided at all intersections and approved by the Village
Board.
      (9)   Street lights. Street lights shall be purchased and installed at
each intersection involving a public street or public streets in the
subdivision by the subdivider at his or her or its expense.
      (10)   Yard lights. A yard light shall be required by the subdivision
restrictions in the front yard of each improved lot.
(Ord. 14-02-02, passed 2-4-2014; Ord. 21-12-01, passed 12-21-2021)
CHAPTER 153: LAND USE PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Plan adopted by reference
§ 153.01 PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The village’s Land Use Plan, and any and all amendments, is hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Purpose
   
154.003   Definitions
   
154.004   Districts; zoning map
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.015   Board of Appeals
   
154.016   Appeals
   
154.017   Jurisdiction
   
154.018   Judicial review of final decisions
   
154.019   Certificate of occupancy required
   
154.020   Plats
   
154.021   Changes and amendments
   
154.022   Interpretation and purpose
Zoning Commission
   
154.035   Purpose
   
154.036   Membership
   
154.037   Term of office
   
154.038   Procedure
   
154.039   Powers and duties
   
154.040   Expenditures
AG Agricultural District
   
154.055   Purpose
   
154.056   Uses permitted
   
154.057   Special uses
   
154.058   Required lot area and lot width
   
154.059   Height
   
154.060   Required yards and drives
R-1 Low Density Residential District
   
154.075   Purpose
   
154.076   Permitted uses
   
154.077   Heights
   
154.078   Lot size
   
154.079   Yards
   
154.080   Building coverage
   
154.081   Habitable floor area
R-2 Medium Density Residential District
   
154.095   Purpose
   
154.096   Permitted uses
   
154.097   Heights
   
154.098   Lot size
   
154.099   Yards
   
154.100   Building coverage
   
154.101   Habitable floor area
   
154.102   No two-family dwellings
R-3 Multiple-Family Residential District
   
154.115   Purpose
   
154.116   Uses
   
154.117   Multi-family residence, sheltered care home and nursing home
standards
R-P Planned Residential District
   
154.130   Purposes
   
154.131   Uses
   
154.132   Gross area
   
154.133   Floor area ratio
   
154.134   Open space
   
154.135   Building height
   
154.136   Yards and courts
   
154.137   Off-street parking
   
154.138   Site plan approval
B-1 Central Business District
   
154.150   Purpose
   
154.151   Permitted uses
   
154.152   Special uses
   
154.153   Heights
   
154.154   Yards and courts; coverage
B-2 General Retail Business District
   
154.165   Purpose
   
154.166   Permitted uses
   
154.167   Special uses
   
154.168   Height, yards and courts; coverage
   
154.169   Site plan approval
B-4 Low Impact Industrial District
   
154.180   Purpose
   
154.181   Permitted uses
   
154.182   Special uses
   
154.183   Height, yards and courts; coverage
   
154.184   Performance standards
   
154.185   Site plan approval
   
154.186   Use of hazardous materials
I-1 Industrial District
   
154.200   Purpose
   
154.201   Permitted uses
Performance Standards for Industrial Districts
   
154.215   General
   
154.216   Noise
   
154.217   Vibrations
   
154.218   Toxic and noxious matter
   
154.219   Odorous matter
   
154.220   Fire and explosive hazards
   
154.221   Glare and heat
Supplementary Regulations
   
154.235   Construction and use
   
154.236   Open spaces
   
154.237   Height
   
154.238   Yards
   
154.239   Exemptions from regulations and standards
   
154.240   Solar energy systems and installations
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
154.250   Purpose
   
154.251   Procedure and control
   
154.252   Schedule of requirements
   
154.253   Waiver of requirements
   
154.254   Lot placement
Non-Conforming Uses
   
154.265   Non-conforming signs and billboards
   
154.266   Non-conforming uses of land
   
154.267   Non-conforming structures
   
154.268   Non-conforming uses of structures
   
154.269   Non-conforming use changes
   
154.270   Repairs and maintenance
   
154.271   Uses under exception not non- conforming uses
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Hanna City Zoning
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.002 PURPOSE.
   The zoning regulations and standards herein adopted and established have
been made for the purpose of:
   (A)   Securing adequate light, pure air and safety from fire and other
dangers;
   (B)   Conserving the value of land, buildings and structures throughout the
village;
   (C)   Lessening and avoiding congestion in the public streets;
   (D)   Lessening and avoiding hazards to persons and damage to property
resulting from the accumu- lation or runoff of storm or flood waters;
   (E)   Promoting the public health, safety, comfort, morals and general
welfare;
   (F)   Regulation and limiting the height and bulk of buildings and
structures hereafter to be erected;
   (G)   Establishing, regulating and limiting the building or setback lines on
or along any street, traffic-way, drive, parkway or storm or flood water runoff
channel or basin;
   (H)   Regulating and limiting the intensity of the use of lot areas, and
regulating and determining the area of open spaces within and surrounding
buildings and structures;
   (I)   Classifying, regulating and restricting the location of trades and
industries and the location of buildings, structures and land designed for
specified industrial, commercial, residential and other uses;
   (J)   Dividing the entire village into districts of such number, shape, area
and such different classes according to the use of land buildings and
structures, intensity of the use of lot area, area of open spaces and other
classification as may be deemed best suited to carry out the purposes of this
chapter;
   (K)   Fixing regulations and standard to which buildings, structures or uses
therein shall conform;
   (L)   Prohibiting uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of such districts; and
   (M)   Preventing additions to the alteration or remodeling of existing
buildings, structures or uses in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed under this chapter.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.003 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any pertinent word or term not a part of this listing, but vital
to the interpretation of this chapter, shall be construed to have its usual
legal definition.
      (2)   The present tense includes the future tense.
      (3)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter.
      (4)   The singular number includes the plural and vice versa.
      (5)   The word “shall” is always mandatory; the word “may” is always
permissive.
      (6)   The word “person” includes a partnership, association, firm, trust,
club, company or corporation, as well as, the individual.
      (7)   The word “used” or “occupied” or “located” as applied to any land,
building, use, structure or premises shall be construed to include the words
“intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied or located”.
      (8)   The word “lot” shall include the words “plot” or “parcel”.
      (9)   The word “village” shall mean the “Village of Hanna City,
Illinois”.
      (10)   The word “Board” shall mean the “Zoning Board of appeals of the
village”.
      (11)   The words “Planning Commission” shall mean the “Planning
Commission of the village.”
      (12)   The word “engineer” shall mean the person or firm retained as
engineer by the village.
      (13)   The words “governing body” shall mean the “Board of Trustees of
the village”.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure, the size of which exceeds 25 square
feet, on the same lot with the main or principal structure, or the main or
principal use, and subordinate to and used for purposes customarily incidental
to the main or principal use. The ACCESSORY STRUCTURE may or may not be
permanently affixed to the surface of the ground.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use on the same lot with, incidental and subordinate to
the main or principal use or the main or principal structure.
      ALLEY. A permanent service right-of-way, which affords only a secondary
means of access to property abutting such right-of-way and is not intended for
general traffic circulation.
      AREA, BUILDING. The total area taken on a horizontal plane at the largest
floor level of the main or principal building and all accessory buildings on
the same lot exclusive of uncovered porches, terraces, steps or awnings,
marquees and non-permanent canopies and planters.
      AREA, FLOOR. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several stories
of a building excluding cellar and basement floor areas not devoted to
residential use, but including the area of walled-in and roofed porches and
terraces. All dimensions shall be measured between exterior faces of walls.
      AREA, FLOOR, HABITABLE. The sum of the horizontal areas of all rooms in a
building used for habitation, such as living room, dining room, kitchen,
bedroom, bathroom or closet, but not including hallways, stairways, service
rooms or utility rooms, not unheated rooms such as enclosed porches, not rooms
without at least one window or skylight opening onto a yard or court, measured
between the interior faces of walls.
      AREA, LOT. The total area within the lot lines.
      BASEMENT. A story having part but not less than one-half its height below
grade.
      BLOCK FACE. Property abutting on one side of a street and lying between
the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or between the nearest
intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway,
unsubdivided area or other definite boundary.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling containing at least three dwelling units or
lodging units in whatever combination. Meals are provided within such BOARDING
HOUSE to the residents of the lodging units.
      BUILDING. An enclosed structure having a roof supported by columns,
walls, arches or other devices and used for the housing, shelter or enclosure
of persons, animals or chattels.
      BUILDING, MAIN OR PRINCIPAL. The building in which is conducted the main
or principal use of the lot on which it is located.
      CELLAR. A story having less than one-half of its height above grade.
      COURT. An open space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a building,
which is bounded on two or more sides by, but is not enclosed by, the walls of
such building.
      COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot area covered by the building area.
      CURB LEVEL. The average elevation of the established curb of a street
taken along the curb line between the points of intersection of the curb line
and the lot lines. Where no curb has been established, the CURB LEVEL shall be
the average elevation of the land surface taken along the street right-of-way
line between the points of intersection of the right-of-way line and the lot
lines.
      DWELLING. A building designed for residential living purposes and
containing one or more dwelling units and/or lodging units.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms constituting all or part of a dwelling
which are used exclusively as living quarters for one family and not more than
two roomers or boarders, and which contain a stove, sink and other kitchen
facilities.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling containing one dwelling unit.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling containing two dwelling units with one
dwelling unit arranged on the story or stories above the other dwelling unit or
beside the other dwelling unit.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A dwelling containing three or more dwelling
units.
      DWELLING, GROUP. A group of two or more single-family, two-family or
multi-family dwellings in whatever combination, occupying a lot or lots in one
ownership.
      FAMILY.
         (a)   An individual;
         (b)   Two or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption; or
         (c)   Maximum of five persons not so related; together with his, her
or their domestic servants and gratuitous guests maintaining common household
in a dwelling unit or lodging unit.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building in which, for compensation, one or more
vehicles are parked.
      GRADE. The average of the elevations of the surface of the ground
measured at all corners of a building.
      HEIGHT. The vertical measurement from grade to a point midway between the
highest and lowest points of the roof of a building or the vertical measurement
from the average level of the surface of the ground immediately surrounding a
structure to the upper-most portion of such structure.
      HOME OCCUPATION.
         (a)   An accessory use of a service character customarily conducted
within a dwelling, which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for living purposes and does not change the character thereof or have
any exterior evidence of such secondary use other than a sign as provided in §
154.075 of this chapter. The occupation must conform to the following
additional conditions.
            1.   It must be carried on solely by the members of the family who
are residing on the premises.
            2.   The total floor area devoted to such use shall not exceed 25%
of the area of one floor of the dwelling, shall be located only in the dwelling
and shall not be located in any structure accessory thereto, nor in open.
            3.   No article is sold or offered for sale, except such as may be
produced on the premises.
            4.   No mechanical equipment is used, except of a type that is
similar in character to that normally used for purely domestic or household
purposes.
         (b)   HOME OCCUPATION shall not include dancing instruction, group
musical instruction, tea rooms, tourist home, beauty shops, real estate
offices, insurance offices, investment offices, the repair or servicing of
automotive vehicles or the conduct of any other trade or business not herein
excepted.
      HOTEL. A building containing separate accommodations for use by primarily
transient persons. A HOTEL may contain restaurants, barber shops and other
accessory services for serving primarily its residents and only incidentally
the public.
      JUNK YARD. A lot, land, building or structure, or part thereof used
primarily for the collecting, storage and/or sale of waste paper, rags, scrap
metal or discarded material or for the collecting, dismantling, storage and
salvaging of machinery or vehicles not in running condition and for the sale of
parts therefrom.
      KENNEL. The keeping or housing of three or more dogs six months old or
older, either as an accessory use or a principal use. Any KENNEL shall be
within a completely enclosed building, or if outdoor runs are provided, they
shall be completely enclosed by a woven wire fencing, solid fence or wall. A
KENNEL or any part thereof shall not be located in any front or side yard, not
within five feet of any side or rear lot line in a rear yard.
      LAND USE PLAN. The complete plan or any of its parts for the development
of the village and adopted by the governing body as the official plan.
      LODGING UNIT. One or more rooms constituting all or part of a dwelling
which are used exclusively as living quarters for one family and do not contain
cooking facilities.
      LODGING HOUSE. A dwelling containing at least three dwelling units or
lodging units in whatever combination. Meals are not provided within such
LODGING HOUSE to the residents of the lodging units.
      LOT. The word lot when used along shall mean a zoning lot unless the
context of this chapter clearly indicated otherwise.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot located:
         (a)   At the junction of a abutting two or more intersecting streets;
         (b)   At the junction of and abutting a street and the nearest
shoreline or high water line of a storm or flood water runoff channel or basin;
         (c)   At the junction of an abutting two or more storm or flood water
runoff channels or basins; or
         (d)   At and abutting the point of abrupt change of a single street
where the interior angle is less than 135 degrees and the radius of the street
is less than 100 feet.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a comer lot.
      LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot.
      MOTEL. A building or group of buildings, whether detached, semi-detached
or attached, containing accommodations for primarily transient automobile
travelers. The term MOTEL includes such buildings designated as tourist courts,
tourist cabins, motor lodges and other similar terms.
      NON-CONFORMING LOT, STRUCTURE OR USE. A lot, sign, structure or use,
which does not conform to the regulations and standards of the district in
which it is located.
      NURSING OR CONVALESCENT HOME. A building containing sleeping rooms where
persons are housed or lodged and are furnished with meals and nursing care for
hire.
      PARKING LOT. A lot, court, yard or portion thereof used for the parking
of vehicles.
      PARKING SPACE. A space accessory to a use or structure for the parking of
one vehicle, the size of which shall be determined, as herein specified.
      PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOP- MENT. A tract of land which is developed as
a unit under single ownership or control, which includes two or more main or
principal structures and is identified to its main or principal use by its
functional definition prefix, such as dwelling group.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire dedicated tract or strip of land that is to be
used by the public for circulation and service.
      RINGELMANN CHART. A smoke chart giving shades of gray to which the
density of columns of smoke rising from stacks may be compared. Each such shade
of gray is categorized according to a Ringelmann number.
      SCREEN PLANTING. A vegetative material of sufficient heights and density
to filter adequately from view, in adjoining districts, structures and uses on
the premises upon which the screen planting is located.
      SETBACK LINE. The building restriction line nearest the front of and
across a lot establishing the minimum distance to be provided between the wall
of a structure located on said lot and the lot line with respect to a side or
rear yard and the nearest curb (or pavement line if there is no curb) with
respect to a front yard or the nearest shoreline or high water line of a storm
or flood water runoff channel or basin.
      SIGN. Any structure or device for visual communication that is used for
the purpose of bringing the subject thereof to the attention of the public, but
not including any flag, badge or insignia of any government or governmental
organization, any political sign or any sign indicating address. Each display
surface of a sign shall be considered a SIGN.
      SMOKE UNIT. The emission of smoke of a density of Ringelmann Number 1 for
a period of one minute.
      SPECIAL USE. A use permitted in a district pursuant to, and in compliance
with, procedures specified herein.
      STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor
above, then the space between any floor and the ceiling next above it.
      STREET. A thoroughfare within the right-of-way, which affords the
principal means of access to abutting property. A STREET may be designated as
an avenue, a boulevard, drive, highway, lane, parkway, place, road,
thoroughfare or by other appropriate name.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
surface of the ground or affixed to something having a fixed location on the
surface of the ground. Among other things, structures include buildings, walls,
fences, billboards and signs.
      STRUCTURE, MAIN OR PRINCIPAL. The structure in or on which is conducted
the main or principal use of the lot on which it is located.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction or addition of or to
a structure the cost of which equals or exceeds 10% of the market value of the
structure before the improvement is started. It should not, however, include
such actions taken to comply with existing state or local codes or ordinances
or alterations to a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places.
      TOURIST HOME. A dwelling containing the dwelling unit of the owner or
operator and containing separate accommodations primarily for transient
automobile travelers.
      TRAILER COACH or MOBILE HOME. Any portable or mobile vehicle used for
residential living purposes by a family. For the purpose of this chapter, such
vehicle shall be classified as a TRAILER COACH whether or not its wheels,
rollers, skids or other rolling equipment have been removed, or whether or not
any addition thereto has been build on the ground.
      TRAILER CAMP OR MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land meeting the standards
established by the county health authorities and by the state’s Department of
Public Health:
         (a)   Where two or more inhabited trailers coaches are parked; or
         (b)   Which is used by the public as parking space for two or more
inhabited trailer coaches.
      USE. The specific purpose for which land, a structure or premises, is
designed, arranged, intended or for which it is or may be occupied or
maintained. The term PERMITTED USE or its equivalent shall not be deemed to
include any NON- CONFORMING USE.
      YARD. An open space, other than a court, of uniform width or depth on the
same lot with a structure lying between the structure and the nearest lot line
and is unoccupied and unobstructed from the surface of the ground upward,
except as may be specifically provided by the regulations and standards herein.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending the full width of a lot and situated
between the front curb line (or, if there is no curb, the front pavement line)
and the nearest line of a structure located on said lot. Where a lot is located
such that its rear and front lot lines each abut a street right-of-way line or
the nearest shoreline or highwater line of a storm or flood water runoff
channel or basin, both such yards shall be classified as FRONT YARDS. Each yard
of a corner lot facing a street right-of-way line or the shoreline or highwater
line of a storm or flood water runoff channel or basin shall be classified as a
front yard.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending the full width of a lot and situated between
the rear lot line and the nearest line of a structure located on said lot.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard situated between the side lot line and the nearest
line of a structure located on said lot and extending from the rear line of the
required front yard to the front line of the required rear yard.
      ZONING LOT. A single property, parcel, unit tract, plot or otherwise
designated portion of land, having metes and bounds, which is designated by its
owner or developer as a property, parcel, unit, tract, plot or otherwise
designated portion of land which has been sold, or is offered, or will be
offered for sale, and is to be used, developed or built upon as a unit under
single ownership or control, and which is occupied or capable of being occupied
by one or more structures and the accessory structures, or uses customarily
incidental to it, including such open spaces as are arranged and designed to be
used in connection with such structure. A ZONING LOT may or may not coincide
with a lot of record.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.004 DISTRICTS; ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Division. In order to carry out the purposes and provisions of this
chapter, the village is hereby divided into the following districts:
B-1 Central Business District
B-2 General Retail Business District
B-3 Service Business District
B-4 Low Impact Industrial District
C   Conservation District
I-1 Industrial District
R-1 Low Density Residential District
R-2 Medium Density Residential District
R-3 Multiple Family Residential District
R-P Planned Residential District
 
   (B)   Map establishment. The locations and boundaries of the districts
herein established are shown upon the map entitled “Village of Hanna City”,
which with all notations thereon, is hereby made a part of this chapter.
   (C)   Submerged land, new or annexed land. Submerged land, any submerged
land which may be reclaimed and land which may be annexed to the village shall
be classified as “C” conservation until such time as the Village Board changes
the classification in accordance with provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Zoning of streets, alleys, public ways and railroad rights-of-way. All
streets, alleys, public ways and railroad rights-of-way, if not otherwise
specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as the property
immediately abutting. Where the centerline of a street, alley, public way or
railroad right-of-way serves as a district boundary, the zoning of such areas,
when not otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be the same as
that of the abutting property up to such centerline.
   (E)   Rules for the interpretation of district boundaries. Where uncertainty
exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the zoning map, the
following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following recorded lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following village limits
shall be construed as following such village limits.
      (4)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed
to be midway between the main tracks.
      (5)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streams, rivers, canals, lakes or other bodies of water shall be construed to
follow such centerlines.
      (6)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in division s(E)(1) through (E)(5) above shall be so construed.
Distances not specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall be
determined by the scale of the map.
      (7)   Where physical of cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map or in other circumstances
not covered by divisions (E)(1) through (E)(5) above, the Board shall interpret
the district boundaries.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.015 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   A Board of Appeals is hereby established in accordance with the provisions
of the statute applicable thereto. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held
at such time and place within the village as the Board may determine. Special
meetings may be held at the call of the Chairperson, or as determined by the
Board, such Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson may
administer oaths and compel attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Zoning
Board shall be open to the public. Such Board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member on every question. If any member
is absent or fails to vote, the minutes shall indicate such fact. The Board
shall adopt its own rules of procedure not in conflict with the statute or this
chapter.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.016 APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   Appeals to the Board of Appeals may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by an officer, department, board or bureau of the village.
      (2)   Such appeal shall be taken within 20 days from the date of the
action appealed from by filing with the Board of Appeals a notice of appeal,
specifying the grounds thereof.
      (3)   The Building Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board all
papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
      (4)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Board that, by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property.
   (B)   The Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for hearing of the
appeal and give due written notice thereof to the parties and decide the same
within a reasonable time.
   (C)   The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly or may modify the
use, requirement, decision or determination as, in its opinion, ought to be
made in the premises, but any decision to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination of an administrative official or to decide in favor
of the applicant any matter upon which it is required to pass under such an
ordinance or to effect any variation in the ordinance, or to recommend any
variation or modification to the ordinance to the Village Board shall require a
concurring vote of not less than four members of the Board.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.017 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Building Inspector.
It shall also hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under this chapter. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly or may modify or amend the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from to the extent and in the manner that the Board may decide to be
fitting and proper in the premises and, to that end, the Board shall also have
all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
   (B)   When a property owner shows that a strict application of the terms of
this chapter relating to the use, construction or alteration of buildings or
structures or to the use of land, imposes upon him or her practical
difficulties or particular hardship, then the Board may make such variations of
the strict application of the terms of this chapter as are in harmony with its
general purpose and intent, when the Board is satisfied, under the evidence
heard before it, that a granting of such variation will not merely serve as a
convenience to the applicant, but is necessary to alleviate some demonstrable
hardship so great as to warrant a variation in the following instances:
      (1)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary of a
district divides a lot in single ownership as shown of record;
      (2)   To permit the reconstruction of a non- conforming building which
has been destroyed or damaged to an extent of more than 50% of its value, by
fire or act of God or the public enemy, where the Board shall find some
compelling public necessity requiring a continuance of the non-conforming use
and, in no case, shall such a permit be issued if its primary function is to
continue a monopoly;
      (3)   To make a variance, by reason of an exceptional situation,
surroundings or condition of a specific piece of property or by the reason of
exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific piece of property of
record or by reason of exception topographical conditions the strict
application of any provision of this chapter would result in each of the
following applying and to grant the variance, the Zoning Board of Appeals must
make findings of fact that each of the following apply:
         (a)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
that zone;
         (b)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and
         (c)   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality.
      (4)   To interpret the provisions of this chapter where the street layout
actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the district
map fixing the several districts;
      (5)   To waive the parking requirements in the neighborhood commercial,
commercial business or industrial districts whenever the character or use of
the building is such as to make unnecessary the full provisions of parking
facilities or where such regulations would impose an unreasonable hardship upon
the use of the lot, as contrasted with merely granting an advantage or
convenience; and
      (6)   (a)   To permit a building to be erected, reconstructed, altered or
enlarged so that the building lines will extend beyond the distances specified
in this chapter into side yards or into front yards; provided that, such
variances may not be granted:
            1.   Unless there is a building in the block which extends beyond
the distance from the front street line specified in this chapter, in which
case, the building line may be permitted to extend as near to the front street
line as such non-conforming building;
            2.   Unless the lot is irregular in shape, topography or size;
            3.   Unless the street line of the lot is directly opposite the
street line of a lot which is irregular in shape, topography of size; and
            4.   The provisions of division (B)(6)(a)3. above are met.
         (b)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to
the Board the power or authority to alter or change the zoning ordinance or the
district map, such power and authority being reserved to the village’s Board of
Trustees. The Board of Appeals may impose such conditions and restrictions upon
the use of the premises benefitted by a variance, as it may deem necessary. The
Board shall make no such variation, except in a specified case, after an
application for a permit has been made and after duly advertised public hearing
held by the Board as prescribed by statute. The notice of hearing shall contain
the address or location of the property for which the variation or other ruling
by the Board is sought, as well as, a brief description of the nature of the
appeal. In order to partially defray the expenses of the public hearing
involving variance, the applicant shall pay the sum as set by the Board of
Trustees from time to time at the time of the filing of the appeal or request
for variance.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.018 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF FINAL DECISIONS.
   All final administrative decisions of the Board of Appeals rendered under
the terms of this chapter shall be subject to judicial review, pursuant to the
provisions of the Administrative Review Law, being 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.,
and all amendments and modifications thereof and the rules adopted pursuant
thereto.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.019 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   No vacant land shall be occupied or used, and no building hereafter
erected or structurally altered, shall be occupied or used; nor shall any home
occupation be established until a certificate of occupancy shall have been
issued by the Building Inspector.
   (B)   A certificate of occupancy for a new building or the alteration of an
existing building shall be applied for coincident with the application for a
building permit and said certificate shall be issued within three days after
the requests for same shall have been made, in writing, to the Building
Inspector after the erection or alteration of such building or part thereof,
shall have been completed in conformity with the provisions of this regulation.
Pending the issuance of a regular certificate, a temporary certificate of
occupancy may be issued by the Building Inspector for a period not exceeding
six months, during the completion of alterations or during partial occupancy of
a building, pending its completion.
   (C)   Such temporary certificate shall not be construed as in any way
altering the respective rights, duties and obligations of the owners or of the
village relating to the use or occupancy of the premises or any other matter
covered by this chapter, and such temporary certificate shall not be issued,
except under such restrictions and provisions as will adequately insure the
safety of the occupants.
   (D)   A certificate of occupancy for the use of vacant land or the change in
the character of the use of land as herein provided, shall be applied for
before any such land shall be occupied or used and a certificate of occupancy
shall be issued within three days after the application has been made; provided
that, such use is in conformity with the provisions of these regulations.
   (E)   A certificate of occupancy shall state that the building or proposed
use of a building or land complies with all the building and health laws and
ordinances and with the provisions of these regulations. A record of all
certificates shall be kept on file in the office of the Building Inspector, and
copies shall be furnished on request to any person having a proprietary or
tenancy interest in the building affected. No fee shall be charged for a
certificate of occupancy.
   (F)   No permit for excavation for any building shall be issued before
application has been made for certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.020 PLATS.
   All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by a drawing or
plat, in duplicate, showing the lot plan, the location or the building and lot
and such other information as may be necessary to provide for the enforcement
of these regulations. This plat shall be prepared after the lot has been staked
by a competent surveyor, and the plat shall show the date of staking and the
name of the engineer or surveyor. A careful record of the original copy of such
applications and plats shall be kept in the office of the Building Inspector,
and the duplicate copy shall be kept at the building at all times during the
construction.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.021 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The President and Board of Trustees of the village may, from time to
time on its own motion, or on petition or on recommendation of the village’s
Zoning Board of Appeals, amend, supplement or repeal the regulations and
provisions of this chapter, but no such amendments or change shall be made
without a hearing before the village’s Zoning Board of Appeals as provided by
law. In case of a written protest against any proposed amendment of the
regulations or districts, signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% of the
frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage
immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom or by the owners of 20% of
the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, as to such
regulations or district, filed with the Village Clerk, such amendment shall not
be passed, except by the favorable vote of two-thirds of all the Village Board.
   (B)   Every petition initiated by interested property owners, or authorized
agents such property owners, for the rezoning of any property to more
restricted or less restricted classification shall be directed to the village’s
Zoning Board of Appeals in the first instance. In such cases, the village’s
Zoning Board of Appeals shall not be required to take action for the conduct of
a hearing on such petition. If the village’s Zoning Board shall determine not
to take action for the conduct of a hearing on such petition, the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall report such action to the village’s Board of Trustees at the
next regular meeting of the village’s Board of Trustees held after the time
that the Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine not to conduct a hearing on
said petition. The village’s Board of Trustees, upon receiving such report, may
direct said Zoning Board of Appeals to conduct a hearing on said petition and
in such event, such hearing shall be held by the Zoning Board.
   (C)   Whenever the owners of 300 feet or more of the street frontage in any
block shall present to the village’s Zoning Board a petition requesting the
rezoning of any property to a more restricted or less restricted
classification, it shall be the duty of the village’s Zoning Board of Appeals
to conduct a hearing on such petition.
   (D)   Before the village’s Zoning Board of Appeals shall take any action for
the conduct of a hearing on any petition for rezoning any property, the party
or parties petitioning for such change shall deposit the sum as set by the
Board of Trustees from time to time to cover the approximate cost of this
procedure, and under no condition shall said sum or any part thereof be
refunded for failure of said amendment to be enacted into law.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.022 INTERPRETATION AND PURPOSE.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, comfort, prosperity or general welfare. It is not intended
by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants
or other agreement between parties; provided, however, that, where this chapter
imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or upon
height of building, or required larger open spaces than are imposed or required
by other ordinances, rules, regulations or by easements, covenants or
agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
ZONING COMMISSION
§ 154.035 PURPOSE.
   In order to prepare a proposed zoning ordinance for the village setting
forth the boundaries of zoning districts and the regulations to be enforced
therein, the Board of Trustees may appoint a Zoning Commission by the authority
granted to the village under the State Municipal Code.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.036 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Zoning Commission shall consist of five members, citizens of the
village, appointed by the President on the basis of their particular fitness
for their duty on the Zoning Commission and subject to the approval of the
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.037 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Of the five members first appointed, one shall serve for a period of
one year, two for a period of two years and two for a period of three years.
Thereafter, each member shall serve for a term of three years. Vacancies shall
be filled by appointments for unexpired terms only. All members of the
Commission shall serve without compensation; except that, if the Board of
Trustees deems it advisable, they may receive compensation as may be fixed from
time to time by the village and provided for in the appropriation ordinance.
The ex-officio members shall serve for the terms of the elective office. It
shall be permissible for a person to serve on both the Planning Commission and
the Zoning Commission simultaneously.
   (B)   The Zoning Commission shall cease to exist upon the adoption of a
zoning ordinance by the Village Board, however.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.038 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Immediately following their appointment, the members of the Zoning
Commission shall meet, organize, elect officers as it may deem necessary and
adopt (and later revise) rules and regulations of organization and procedure
consistent with the provisions of this code and state laws.
   (B)   The Commission shall keep written records of its proceedings, which
shall be open at all times to public inspection.
   (C)   The Commission shall also file an annual report with the President and
Board of Trustees, setting forth its transactions and recommendations.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.039 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Zoning Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the President of the village a zoning
ordinance;
   (B)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding;
   (C)   To cooperate with municipal or regional zoning commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local zoning program and to assure harmonious
and integrated zoning for the area; and
   (D)   To exercise whatever other powers are germane to the powers authorized
by the State Municipal Code and as may be conferred upon the Commission by the
President of the village.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.040 EXPENDITURES.
   Any expenditures other than the services of the Village Attorney which are
hereby authorized, shall be approved by the Village Board.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 154.055 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the AG District is to encourage the preservation of a proper
setting for and pleasant approaches to the village, to provide an area for
agricultural pursuits protected from infringements of unguided urban
development; to conserve areas physically unsuitable for intensive development
and to provide in the area immediately surrounding the village an environment
capable of accommodating future expansion of the village in an orderly and
efficient manner.
(Ord. 14-08-19, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.056 USES PERMITTED.
   The following uses are permitted in the AG District:
   (A)   Bona fide agricultural uses (including, but not limited to, farm
dwellings), commercial grain storage;
   (B)   Single family residence dwellings and related accessory buildings, and
related recreational uses, off street storage of not more than one camping
trailer per family unit, home occupations (as defined in this chapter);
   (C)   Community buildings, utility and service system buildings and lands,
libraries and museums, picnic grounds, religious, educational or charitable
institutions;
   (D)   Unlighted signs notifying of sale, rental or lease of land or sale of
farm goods on the premises on which the sign is maintained having not over 50
square feet of sign area; signs announcing meeting time and place of civic
organizations;
   (E)   Lakes (artificial and natural);
   (F)   Public parks and forest preserves; and
   (G)   Public utility substations, booster stations, cellular phone, radio
and television towers and repeater stations, but not including power generation
or gas manufacturing plants. (Must be set back at least 100 feet from the
centerline of any road or lot line, whichever results in the structure being
farthest away from the roadway pavement.)
(Ord. 14-08-19, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.057 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses are permitted as special uses when authorized by the
Council after a public hearing and after recommendation by the Planning
Commission. Such special use shall be subject to the following requirements and
any other requirements the Planning Commission feels necessary to further the
purpose of the Agricultural District:
   (A)   Dispensaries and cultivation centers, as defined in the state’s
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, being 410 ILCS 130/1 et
seq.;
   (B)   Cemeteries; and
   (C)   Commercial resort uses such as lodges, restaurants, rental cottages,
riding stables, golf courses, swimming pools, tennis courts and other such
recreational facilities, but not including racing speedways of any type.
(Ord. 14-08-19, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.058 REQUIRED LOT AREA AND LOT WIDTH.
   No dwelling shall be located on a lot less than five acres in area, nor 150
feet in width, at the building line.
(Ord. 14-08-19, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.059 HEIGHT.
   No residential dwelling shall exceed two stories or 30 feet in height.
(Ord. 14-08-19, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 154.060 REQUIRED YARDS AND DRIVES.
   All structures shall have the following minimum yard spaces:
   (A)   Front yard: 50 feet from the applicable right-of-way line or the
centerline of the road, whichever results in the house/structure being farthest
from any applicable roadway pavement;
   (B)   Side yard: each not less than 15 feet;
   (C)   Rear yard: not less than 30 feet;
   (D)   Any driveway: not less than 30 feet; and
   (E)   Corner lots shall provide the minimum front yard requirements on each
street side of the lot.
(Ord. 14-08-19, passed 8-19-2014)
R-1 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.075 PURPOSE.
   The R-1 Residential District is intended to include those portions of the
village developed predominantly with one-family dwellings on individual lots
where it is deemed desirable to maintain and encourage this pattern of
development, or those undeveloped portions of the village in which it is deemed
desirable to encourage this pattern of predominant land usage and density of
population.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.076 PERMITTED USES.
   No building or premises shall be used for any use and no building shall be
hereafter erected or altered within any R-1 Residential District, unless
otherwise provided for in this chapter, except for the following uses which are
allowed:
   (A)   One-family dwellings;
   (B)   Libraries; public museums;
   (C)   Churches; temples; other places of public worship;
   (D)   Public or private schools offering general instructions between
kindergarten and twelfth grade levels; public or private colleges offering
courses leading toward associate, baccalaureate or advanced degree in arts or
science or comparable recognized degree;
   (E)   Parks, recreation areas, recreation buildings operated by a unit of
government; government buildings but not including storage yards or buildings
for the housing of trucks, contractors equipment, poles, pipe, road building
materials or similar materials;
   (F)   Temporary buildings, structures and uses incidental to construction on
the site, for a period not to exceed one year;
   (G)   Customary home occupations, but not including the conduct of a retail
or wholesale business or manufacture;
   (H)   Customary accessory uses, including private garages; and
   (I)   One nameplate sign not exceeding one square foot in area, which may
include the occupant’s name, street address and profession or home occupation
if such is conducted on the premises. One sign advertising the sale or rental
of the premises and not exceeding five square feet in area and including the
zoning classification may be displayed.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.077 HEIGHTS.
   No principal building or structure shall hereafter be erected or altered to
exceed 35 feet in height. No accessory building or structure shall hereafter be
erected or altered to exceed 17 feet in height.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.078 LOT SIZE.
   Every building hereafter erected shall be on a lot having an area not less
than 6,000 square feet, a lot width measured along the front setback line of 60
feet and a lot depth of not less than 100 feet, measured along a line midway
between the side lot lines perpendicular to the front lot line; provided,
however, that, where a lot is smaller than herein required, and was of record
at the time of the passage of this chapter, said lot may be occupied by not
more than one family.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.079 YARDS.
   No principal or accessory building or structure shall hereafter be erected
or enlarged unless the following yards are provided and maintained in
connection with such buildings or structures.
   (A)   Front yard. Front yard not less than 25 feet in depth, unless 40% or
more of the adjacent frontage is improved with buildings that have observed a
greater or less depth of front yard, in which instance, no new buildings or
portion thereof shall project beyond a straight line drawn between the point
closest to the front property line of the two nearest residences, but this
regulation shall not be interpreted to require a front yard of more than 50
feet, nor to permit a front yard of lesser depth than that of the nearest
building. Where the street is curved, the line shall follow the curve of the
street rather than to be a straight line.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   A side yard on each side not less than 10% of the width of the lot
for principal buildings or structures is required. However, a side yard of a
principal building or structure which occupies two or more lots shall be not
less than 10% of the total front footage of said lots or six feet, whichever is
less. That in the event of damage or destruction of a dwelling by fire, storm
or other casualty, said dwelling may be restored with the side yard setback
which it originally had without a reference to the requirements set forth in
this section.
      (2)   For accessory buildings or structures located on the rear one-third
of the lot, a side yard setback of not less than three feet shall be
maintained. For accessory buildings or structures located on the front two-
thirds of the lot, a side yard setback of not less than 10% of the lot’s width
shall be maintained. For accessory buildings or structures located on the front
two-thirds of the lot, a side yard setback of not less than 10% of the lot’s
width shall be maintained. No accessory buildings or structures shall be
allowed in the front yard.
   (C)   Rear yard. A rear yard having a depth of not less than 25 feet for
principal buildings or structures. For accessory buildings or structures
located on the rear one-third of the lot, a rear yard of not less than five
feet shall be maintained where said rear yard abuts an existing alley; not less
than three feet where said rear yard does not abut an existing alley.
   (D)   Supplementary regulations.
      (1)   On a corner, no fence, hedge, earth terrace, parking facility or
other structure or plant which would obstruct motor vehicle visibility of
traffic approaching the corner or intersection shall be erected, placed or
maintained within the triangular patterns that are formed by the intersection
of the lot lines nearest the street intersection and a straight line joining
said lot lines at points which are 15 feet in distance from the point of
intersection.
      (2)   An enclosed one story porch, even though roofed over, may project
into a required front, side or rear yard area a distance not to exceed six
feet, and shall not be considered in the determination of the size of yards;
provided, however, that, such porch shall not be closer than four feet at any
point to any lot line, and that no building shall have such porches projecting
into more than one required side yard; and, provided further that, porches on
buildings erected prior to the date of adoption of this amendment, extending
into a required front yard, shall not be enclosed.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.080 BUILDING COVERAGE.
   No building, with its accessory building, shall occupy in excess of 37% of
the area of an interior lot, nor more than 40% of the area of a corner lot.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.081 HABITABLE FLOOR AREA.
   (A)   No one-story dwelling shall hereafter be erected with a habitable
floor area of less than 750 square feet.
   (B)   No two-story dwelling shall hereafter be erected with a habitable
floor area of less than 1,300 square feet.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
R-2 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.095 PURPOSE.
   The R-2 Medium Density Residential District is intended to include those
portions of the village developed with two-family dwellings or with a mixture
of one-family and two-family dwellings.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.096 PERMITTED USES.
   No building or premises shall be used and no building shall be hereafter
erected or altered within an R-2 Medium Density Residential District, unless
otherwise provided for in this chapter, except for the following uses:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R-1 Residential District; and
   (B)   Two-family dwellings.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.097 HEIGHT.
   No building shall hereafter be erected or altered to exceed 35 feet in
height.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.098 LOT SIZE.
   Every one- or two-family dwelling hereafter erected, and every one-family
dwelling or other building thereafter converted to a two-family dwelling, shall
be on a lot having an area of not less than 6,000 square feet.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.099 YARDS.
   No principal or accessory building or structure shall hereafter be erected
or enlarged unless the following yards are provided and maintained in
connection therewith:
   (A)   Front yard. A front yard not less than 25 feet in depth;
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   A side yard on each side not less than 10% of the width of the lot
for principal buildings and structures; and
      (2)   For accessory buildings or structures located on the rear one-third
of the lot, a side yard setback of not less than three feet shall be
maintained. For accessory structures or buildings located on the front two-
thirds of the lot, a side yard setback of not less than 10% of the width of the
lot shall be maintained.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   A rear yard of not less than 15 feet in depth for principal
buildings or structures; and
      (2)   For accessory buildings and structures located on the rear one-
third of the lot, a rear yard of not less than five feet shall be maintained
where said rear yard abuts an existing alley; not less than three feet where
said rear yard does not abut an existing alley.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.100 BUILDING COVERAGE.
   No building with its accessory buildings shall occupy in excess of 40% of
the area of an interior lot, nor in excess of 50% of the area of a corner lot.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.101 HABITABLE FLOOR AREA.
   No one-family dwelling shall hereafter be erected with a habitable floor
area per floor of less than 750 square feet. No two-family dwelling shall
hereafter be erected and no one-family dwelling or other building shall
hereafter be converted to a two-family dwelling with a habitable floor area
less than 1,500 square feet, nor less than 750 square feet in either dwelling
unit.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.102 NO TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   No two-family dwelling hereafter erected or created from an existing
establishment shall be permitted unless separate bathroom and kitchen
facilities and two separate means of access are provided for each dwelling
unit.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.115 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of the R-3 Multiple-Family Residential District to provide
for the continued growth of the village in total population through
intensifications of density and vertical expansion.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.116 USES.
   No building or premises shall be used and no building shall be hereafter
erected or altered within any R-3 Multiple-Family Residential District, unless
otherwise provided for in this chapter, except for the following uses:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R-2 Medium Density Residential District
subject to the restrictions of that district; and
   (B)   Multi-family residences; sheltered care homes; nursing homes, subject
to the restrictions herein set forth for such users. Upon approval of the Board
one or more of the following uses may be established clearly incidental to a
multi-family residence, sheltered care home of nursing home: restaurant, office
of doctor, dental or similar practitioner in the healing arts. Such incidental
use shall be allowed only if it is primarily for the use and benefit of the
occupants of the principal use.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.117 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE, SHELTERED CARE HOME AND NURSING HOME
STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lot size. No multi-family resident, sheltered care home or nursing
home shall hereafter be erected, and no existing building shall be converted to
any such use unless the lot shall have an area of at least 15,000 square feet.
   (B)   Floor area ratio. Irrespective of the number of floors in a building
or a series of buildings on the same lot, the sum of the total area of all
floors shall not exceed the area of the lot (FAR 1.0).
   (C)   Density. No multi-family residence shall hereafter be erected or
altered to accommodate or make provision for more than 100 bedrooms on any acre
of land, nor make provision for more than a proportional number of families on
a fractional part of any acre of land.
   (D)   Building height. No building shall hereafter be erected or altered to
exceed 54 feet in height.
   (E)   Side yard. On each side of the building, there shall be a side yard
having a width of not less than 10% of the width of the lot or one-fifth the
building height, whichever is greater.
   (F)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
15% of the lot depth or one-third the building height, whichever is greater.
   (G)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard along each abutting street
having a depth of at least 25 feet measured from the right-of-way line.
   (H)   Off-street parking.
      (1)   There shall be provided on the same or an adjacent lot (provided,
said lot has the same zoning classification as the lot where the primary use is
located), off-street parking for two cars for each dwelling unit in a multi-
family residence; and one car space for each employee per shift, plus one car
space for each four residents’ accommodation in a sheltered care home or
nursing home.
      (2)   In addition, if one or more incidental uses are permitted by the
Planning Commission, off-street parking shall be provided as the Planning
Commission deems adequate.
   (I)   Site plan approval.
      (1)   Before any permit shall be issued for a multi-family residence,
sheltered care home or nursing home in this district, the site plans shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission for approval. Such site plans shall show:
         (a)   Lot lines;
         (b)   Building placement;
         (c)   Width of bounding streets and type of pavement;
         (d)   Location and size of water lines and sewer lines service the
property;
         (e)   Location of off-street parking with access drives;
         (f)   Heights of buildings of parts thereof;
         (g)   Landscaping;
         (h)   Surrounding land uses;
         (i)   Other details as the Commission may require in its deliberation;
and
         (j)   Location of dumpster enclosure.
      (2)   In its deliberation, the Planning Commission shall give due
consideration to the probable effect the proposal would have on surrounding
land uses:
         (a)   The adequacy of existing water and sewer utilities service the
site;
         (b)   The relation of the building height and mass to surrounding
structures and to the water tower; and
         (c)   The effect the project will have as a traffic generator on
streets giving access to the site.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may approve the plans as submitted, may
approve the plans subject to modification or may disapprove the plans. Its
decision in each case shall be in writing, spread upon the minutes of the
Commission with copies to the applicant, the Building Inspector and the Village
Board.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
R-P PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.130 PURPOSES.
   It is the intent and purpose of the R-P Planned Residential District to
encourage the total planning of large unsubdivided or undeveloped tracts,
rather than lot-by-lot development. Established uses within the district, such
as farming, golf courses, parks, large estates or institutional uses would be
permitted to continue and to be improved and expanded, it being the intent of
these district regulations to provide a framework within which the conversion
of such land to residential uses may be accomplished.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.131 USES.
   No building or premises shall be used and no building shall be hereafter
erected or altered within any R-P Planned Residential District, unless
otherwise provided for in this chapter, except for the following uses, which
shall only be allowed as special uses in said district upon the issuance of a
special use permit for same:
   (A)   Farming, truck gardening, horticultural nurseries, but not including
the raising, housing, pasturing or keeping of bees, fowl or livestock within
300 feet of a lot line;
   (B)   Parks, recreation areas, recreation buildings or operation by a unit
of government and nature preserves;
   (C)   Country clubs, golf courses not conducted as a business or for profit;
and
   (D)   Planned residential development, which may consist of individual
building sites for one or more of the following:
      (1)   One-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Row or town houses;
      (4)   Garden apartments;
      (5)   High rise apartments;
      (6)   Sheltered care facilities;
      (7)   Nursing homes;
      (8)   Residential hotel;
      (9)   Together with common property, such as a park, recreation area,
recreation building or facility; and
      (10)   Off-street parking areas or facilities.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.132 GROSS AREA.
   A planned residential development shall be located on a tract having a gross
area of at least ten acres.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.133 FLOOR AREA RATIO.
   The total area of all floors in all buildings on the tract shall not exceed
0.8 of the gross area of the tract.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.134 OPEN SPACE.
   The total area of the open space, including streets, drives, open parking
areas, open recreation areas and landscaped areas, shall be at least 0.85 times
the total floor area. The total area of the open space exclusive of that in
streets, drives and open parking areas shall be at least one-half the total
floor area.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.135 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   No building shall hereafter be erected or altered to exceed 54 feet in
height.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.136 YARDS AND COURTS.
   Yards and courts shall be provided to assure adequate privacy, desirable
outlook, adequate natural light and ventilation, convenient access to and
around the buildings and other essential uses. Yard depth shall assure adequate
distances between building walls on the property and on abutting off-site
properties. The size, number and location of courts shall be determined in
accordance with the procedures and standards set forth in §§ M307 and M308 of
FHA Manual 2600 entitled Minimum Property Standards for Multi-Family Housing,
which sections are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
Notwithstanding, yards along the external boundary of the planned residential
development shall be provided as specified in this section and §§
154.137 and
154.138 of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.137 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided at the rate of two spaces for each
dwelling unit.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.138 SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   Site plan approval of a planned residential development shall first be
obtained from the Planning Commission. Site plans shall be submitted to the
commission for its approval, modification, approval or disapproval.
   (B)   Such plans shall show:
      (1)   Lot lines;
      (2)   Building placement and type;
      (3)   Width of bounding streets;
      (4)   The location and size of all interior streets, drives, parking
areas;
      (5)   Height of buildings;
      (6)   Landscaping and storm water management;
      (7)   Other details as deemed necessary by the Planning Commission to
show the complete planned unit development; and
      (8)   Location of dumpster enclosure.
   (C)   In its deliberation, the Planning Commission shall give due
consideration to the probable effect the proposal would have on surrounding
land uses:
      (1)   The adequacy of existing water and sewer utilities serving the
site;
      (2)   The relation of the building height and mass to surrounding
structures; and
      (3)   The effect the project will have as a traffic generator on streets
giving access to the site.
   (D)   The Planning Commission may approve the plans as submitted, may
approve the plans subject to modification or may disapprove the plan. Its
decision in each case shall be in writing, spread upon the minutes of the
Commission with copies to the applicant, the Building Inspector and the Village
Board. Following approval of the site plan, the Planning Commission may take up
the issue of the granting of the above required special use permit and may
approve same with any conditions it deems appropriate. Approval of the site
plan, shall not be construed to be a grant or approval of a special use permit.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
B-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 154.150 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent and purpose of this section to provide regulations for the
Central Business District extending along Farmington Road from Runkle Street to
McCallister Road to encourage its continued use and development in accordance
with the plan adopted by the Village Board.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.151 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   No building or premises shall be used and no building shall be
hereafter erected or altered within any B-1 Central Business District, unless
otherwise provided in this chapter, except for the following uses:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R-3 Multi-Family Residential District,
subject to the restrictions therefor set forth in §§
154.115 through
154.117 of this chapter;
      (2)   Bakeries;
      (3)   Banks;
      (4)   Barber shops, beauty parlors;
      (5)   Business and professional offices;
      (6)   Catering establishments;
      (7)   Comfort stations;
      (8)   Dancing academies;
      (9)   Dressmaking establishments employing not more than eight persons;
      (10)   Repair shops and services for home appliances, employing not more
than eight persons;
      (11)   Employment agencies;
      (12)   Plumbing shops;
      (13)   Hotels;
      (14)   Laundries or dry cleaning plants employing not more than eight
persons;
      (15)   Laboratories;
      (16)   Locksmith shops;
      (17)   Lodge halls;
      (18)   Messenger, telegraph services;
      (19)   Millinery shops;
      (20)   Painting and decorating shops;
      (21)   Photography studios;
      (22)   Government offices, post office;
      (23)   Printing shops;
      (24)   Roofing and plastering shops, with no open storage;
      (25)   Restaurants, lunchrooms, cafeterias, places for the sale and
consumption of soft drinks, juices, ice cream and beverages, but excluding
drive-ins;
      (26)   Sharpening or grinding shops;
      (27)   Stores and shops for the conduct of retail business;
      (28)   Shoe repair shops;
      (29)   Studios;
      (30)   Tailor shops employing not more than five persons;
      (31)   Taverns and liquor stores;
      (32)   Telephone exchanges and data centers;
      (33)   Undertaking establishments;
      (34)   Upholstery shops; and
      (35)   Signs only identifying the business, service or products available
on the premises.
   (B)   No permit for any use listed above shall be issued wherein the
proposal includes vehicular access from Farmington Road across the sidewalk
thereof, unless and until the Planning Commission has reviewed the proposal and
finds:
      (1)   Such vehicular access from Farmington Road will not create undue
hazards; and
      (2)   Such vehicular access from Farmington Road will not adversely
effect the development of a unified Central Business District as embodied in
plans for the said Business District as adopted by the Village Board.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.152 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed only by special use permit upon
application to and approval by the governing body:
   (A)   Gasoline and oil stations, public garages; car washes; new or used
vehicle rental and/or sales. All gasoline pumps or appliances for dispensing
motor fuel shall be located not less than 13 feet from the street right-of way.
No banners, flags, pennants, whirligigs or other advertising devices shall be
permitted. All products, appliances, parts for sale shall be stored and
displayed only within the building or in permanent storage cabinets, the
location of which shall be shown on the site plan. No such use shall be
approved within 300 feet of any church or public park. The governing body shall
find that the entrances and exits thereto will not create any undue hazard to
vehicles or pedestrians, and that the proposal, in its location and
development, will enhance and further the carrying out of the duly adopted
village plan for the Central Business District. Any such establishments shall
have adequate off-street car waiting space for the type of establishment
involved, and that there will be adequate supervisory personnel on the premises
at all times that the establishment is open to the public; and
   (B)   Self-service laundries and dry cleaning establishments. To grant such
a use, the governing body shall find that there will be adequate supervisory
personnel on the premises at all times that the establishment is open to the
public.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.153 HEIGHTS.
   No building, whether a one-family, two-family or multi-family residence,
sheltered care home or nursing home or business building, shall hereafter be
erected or altered to exceed 54 feet in height.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.154 YARDS AND COURTS; COVERAGE.
   (A)   There shall be a rear yard of not less than 5% of the depth of the
lot; provided, however, it need not exceed ten feet in depth.
   (B)   No side yards are required.
   (C)   No front yard is required.
   (D)   If an outer court is provided, it shall be not less than five feet
wide nor less than one-sixth the length of such court from the closed end.
   (E)   If an inner court is provided, it shall be not less than six feet
wide, nor shall its area be less than twice the square of its least required
dimension.
   (F)   No building with its accessory buildings, to be used for commercial
purposes, shall occupy in excess of 95% of the lot area.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any of the above requirements in divisions (A) through
(F) above, buildings used in whole or in part for residential purposes shall
conform to the yard, floor area ratio and density restrictions for such
buildings in §§
154.095 through
154.102 of this chapter for one- or two-family dwellings and in §§
154.115 through
154.117 of this chapter for multi-family dwellings.
   (H)   (1)   The Building Inspector of the village shall not issue a permit
for the new construction or substantial improvement of structures in an area
zoned B-1 Central Business District, B-2 General Retail Business District and
B-3 Service Business District, until such time that a site plan for the
location of an improvement on premises so zoned shall be submitted to and
approved by the village’s Planning Commission. Such site plans shall be
submitted by the owner or builder for its approval, modification and approval
or disapproval by said Planning Commission. Such plans shall show:
         (a)   Lot lines;
         (b)   Building placement and type;
         (c)   Width of bounding streets;
         (d)   The location and size of all drives, parking areas;
         (e)   Type of buildings;
         (f)   Landscaping and storm water management; and
         (g)   Other details as deemed necessary to show the complete
development.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall give due consideration to the
probable effect the proposal would have on surrounding land uses:
         (a)   The adequacy of existing water and sewer utilities serving the
site;
         (b)   The relation of the building height and mass to surrounding
structures; and
         (c)   How the proposed project will have an effect as a vehicle
traffic generator on streets giving access to the site.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may approve the plans as submitted, may
approve the plan subject to modification or may disapprove the plans. Its
decision in each case shall be in writing spread upon the minutes of the
Planning Commission with copies to the applicant, the Building Inspector and
the Village Board.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
B-2 GENERAL RETAIL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 154.165 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the B-2 General Retail Business District to provide
adequate and reasonable regulations for other areas in the village outside of
the Central Business District where General Retail Business is already
established or where it may be appropriate to encourage such use.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.166 PERMITTED USES.
   No building or premises in the B-2 General Retail Business District shall be
hereafter erected or altered, unless otherwise provided for in this chapter,
except for the following uses:
   (A)   Uses permitted in the B-1 Central Business District, subject to the
regulations of that district;
   (B)   Offices;
   (C)   Personal service shops;
   (D)   Stores and shops for the conduct of any retail business, including
adult entertainment establishments (as defined in the village’s applicable
ordinance regulating adult entertainment establishments); provided, all goods
or products offered for sale are displayed and stored within a building. Eating
or drinking establishments, designed for consumption in cars parked or which
may be parked on the premises, commonly known as “drive-ins”, are not to be
construed as permitted, hereby, being designated a special use under §
154.167 of this chapter;
   (E)   Bowling alleys, indoor theaters, dance halls, gymnasiums, meeting
halls, lodge halls, clubs and other recreational or fraternal establishments,
but not including recreational uses conducted primarily in the open such as
golf driving ranges, miniature golf;
   (F)   Business, trade, music or art schools;
   (G)   Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors; and
   (H)   Electric substations, telephone exchanges.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.167 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit upon
application to and approved by the governing body:
      (1)   Gasoline filling stations;
      (2)   Used car sales lots;
      (3)   Drive-in restaurants; and
      (4)   Roadside markets, landscape nursery sales yard, building material
sales yard or similar use where the products are primarily displayed outside of
a building.
   (B)   In its deliberation, the governing body shall give due consideration
to the probable effect the proposed special use would have on surrounding land
uses:
      (1)   The location of access drives into the site with respect to their
creating traffic hazards;
      (2)   The adequacy of on-site parking;
      (3)   Lighting of the premises;
      (4)   Adequacy of supervision; and
      (5)   Hours of operation.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.168 HEIGHT, YARDS AND COURTS; COVERAGE.
   Height, yard, court and coverage requirements of §§
154.153 and
154.154 of this chapter shall apply in the B-2 General Retail Business
District.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.169 SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Building Inspector of the village shall not issue a permit for the
new construction or substantial improvement of structures in an area zoned B-
1 Central Business District, B-2 General Retail District and B-3 Service
Business District until such time that a site plan for the location of an
improvement on premises so zoned shall be submitted to and approved by the
village’s Planning Commission. Such site plans shall be submitted by the owner
or builder for its approval, modification and approval or disapproval by said
Planning Commission. Such plan shall show:
      (1)   Lot lines;
      (2)   Building placement and type;
      (3)   Width of bounding streets;
      (4)   Location and size of all drives, parking areas;
      (5)   Type of buildings;
      (6)   Location of dumpster enclosure;
      (7)   Landscaping and storm water management; and
      (8)   Any other details as deemed necessary to show the complete
development.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall give due consideration to the probable
effect the proposal would have on surrounding land uses:
      (1)   The adequacy of existing water and sewer utilities serving the
site;
      (2)   The relation of the building height and mass to surrounding
structures; and
      (3)   How the proposed project will have an effect as a vehicle traffic
generator on streets giving access to the site.
   (C)   The Planning Commission may approve the plans as submitted, may
approve the plan subject to modification or may disapprove the plans. Its
decision in each case shall be in writing spread upon the minutes of the
Planning Commission with copies to the applicant, the Building Inspector and
the Village Board.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
B-4 LOW IMPACT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.180 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent and purpose of the B-4 Low Impact Industrial District to
provide adequate regulations of those businesses engaged in “clean” (low
environmental impact) industrial and commercial uses of property so zoned that
will be compatible with neighboring residential and retail zoning districts.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.181 PERMITTED USES.
   No building or premises shall be used and no building shall hereinafter be
erected or altered within any B-4 Low Impact Industrial District unless
otherwise provided for in this chapter, except for the following uses:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the B-2 General Retail Business District (subject
to the restrictions of that District);
   (B)   Bakery manufacturing/processing;
   (C)   Bedding and furniture storage/assembly;
   (D)   Cloth products manufacturing;
   (E)   Commercial testing laboratories (no hazardous materials);
   (F)   Computer services;
   (G)   Display rooms (merchandise retail/ wholesale);
   (H)   Electronic, scientific precision instrument manufacturing;
   (I)   Frozen food lockers;
   (J)   Health centers;
   (K)   Laundries;
   (L)   Laboratories (research and testing (no hazardous materials));
   (M)   Light machinery products (appliances, business machines, computers and
the like);
   (N)   Lithographing;
   (O)   Mail order houses;
   (P)   Musical instruments assembly;
   (Q)   Orthopedic and medical appliance manufacture;
   (R)   Photo finishing laboratories;
   (S)   Pottery and ceramics manufacture;
   (T)   Printing and publishing establishments;
   (U)   Radio/television stations (no tower);
   (V)   Railroad transportation (no switching yards);
   (W)   Recreation (indoor commercial);
   (X)   Research, non-commercial, scientific, educational; and
   (Y)   Wearing apparel assembly.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.182 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit upon
application to and approval by the governing body: outdoor storage of
materials, supplies and equipment (except for motor vehicles in operable
condition used for conducting business) used in conjunction with any permitted
use listed in §
154.181 of this chapter.
   (B)   In its deliberation, the governing body shall give due consideration
to the probable effect the proposed special use would have on surrounding land
uses:
      (1)   The type of material, equipment or supply to be stored outside, the
manner and method of enclosure (screening); and
      (2)   The frequency with which the material, equipment or supply is to be
used or expended or moved in and out of the proposed outdoor storage location.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.183 HEIGHT, YARDS AND COURTS; COVERAGE.
   Height, yard, court and coverage requirements of §§
154.153 and
154.154 of this chapter shall apply in the B-4 Low Impact Industrial District.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.184 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   All manufacturing, fabricating, assembly and processing of material,
articles and products shall be subject to the performance standards of the I-
1 District of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.185 SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Building Inspector of the village shall not issued a permit for
the new construction or substantial improvement of structures in an area zoned
B-4 Low Impact Industrial District until such time that a site plan for the
location of an improvement on premises so zoned shall be submitted to and
approved by the village’s Planning Commission. Such site plans shall be
submitted by the owner or builder for its approval, modification and approval,
or disapproval by said Planning Commission.
   (B)   Such plans shall show:
      (1)   Lot lines;
      (2)   Building placement and type;
      (3)   Width of bounding streets;
      (4)   The location and size of all drives, parking areas;
      (5)   Type of buildings;
      (6)   Location of dumpster enclosure;
      (7)   Landscaping; and
      (8)   Any other details as deemed necessary to show the complete
development.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall give due consideration of the probable
effect the proposal would have on surrounding land usage:
      (1)   The adequacy of existing water and sewer utilities serving the
site;
      (2)   The relation of the building height and mass to surrounding
structures; and
      (3)   How the proposed project will have an effect as a vehicle traffic
generator on streets giving access to the site.
   (D)   (1)   The Planning Commission may approve the plans as submitted, may
approve the plan subject to modification or may disapprove the plans.
      (2)   Its decision in each case shall be in writing spread upon the
minutes of the Planning Commission with copies to the applicant, the Building
Inspector and the Village Board.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.186 USE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   The use of any and all hazardous materials within any area zoned B-4 Low
Impact Industrial District shall at all times be in strict accordance with
applicable state and/or federal environmental laws and regulations.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.200 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of the I-1 Industrial District regulations to
protect established residential areas from nearby industrial activities which
may create offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heart, glare, fire
hazards and other objectionable influences.
   (B)   Also to protect the limited amount of suitable industrial land from
preemption by other uses and thereby to protect and enhance the tax base of the
village.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.201 PERMITTED USES.
   No building or premises shall be used and no building shall hereafter be
erected or altered within any industrial district, unless otherwise provided in
this chapter, except for the following:
   (A)   Any use permitted in any other district;
   (B)   Public utility substations, distribution centers, gas regulator
stations;
   (C)   Wholesale business establishments, warehouses, storage or household
goods;
   (D)   Building material storage yards, contractors’ plants or storage yards,
lumber yards;
   (E)   Laboratories;
   (F)   Manufacturing, fabricating, assembly and processing of materials,
articles and products, subject to the performance standards of §§
154.215 through
154.221 of this chapter; and
   (G)   Offices, display rooms, as an accessory use to any of the above
permitted uses.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
§ 154.215 GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   Any new use established in I-1 District after the effective date
of this chapter shall be so operated as to comply with the performance
standards governing:
         (a)   Noise;
         (b)   Vibration;
         (c)   Toxic and noxious matter;
         (d)   Odorous matter;
         (e)   Fire and explosive hazards; and
         (f)   Glare and heat, as set forth hereinafter for the district in
which such use shall be located.
      (2)   No use already established on the effective date hereof shall be so
altered or modified as to conflict with, or further conflict with, the
applicable performance standards established hereinafter for the district in
which such use is located. No emission or byproduct of any industrial use shall
violate or exceed state rules. It shall be the responsibility of all industrial
uses to adhere to such rules, including the obtaining of necessary permits.
   (B)   Certification from an engineer or scientific testing laboratory
approved by the Village Board or its designee, indicating that the use of the
land and all processing either does or will comply with the applicable
performance standards, shall accompany application for a zoning certificate.
Where standards indicated here differ from those of state agencies, the more
restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.216 NOISE.
   (A)   Sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter and associated
octave band filter manufactured according to standards prescribed by the
American Standards Association. Measurements shall be made using the flat
network of the sound level meter. Impulsive type noises shall be subject to the
performance standards hereinafter prescribed; provided that, such noises shall
be capable of being accurately measured with such equipment. Noises capable of
being so measured, for the purpose of this chapter, shall be those noises which
cause rapid fluctuations of the needle of the sound level meter with a
variation of no more than plus or minus two decibels. Noises incapable of being
so measured, such as those of an irregular and intermittent nature, shall be
controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
   (B)   At no point on the boundary of a residence or business district shall
the sound pressure level of any operation or plant (other than background
noises not directly under the control of the manufacturer) exceed the decibel
limits in the octave bands designated below:
Octave Band Frequency Cycles Along Residence District Along Business District
Per Second                   Boundaries               Boundaries
                             Decibel Limits
Octave Band Frequency Cycles Along Residence District Along Business District
Per Second                   Boundaries               Boundaries
                             Decibel Limits
0 to 75                      72                       79
75 to 150                    67                       74
150 to 300                   59                       66
300 to 600                   52                       59
600 to 1,000                 46                       53
1,200 to 2,400               40                       47
2,400 to 4,800               34                       41
Over 4,800                   32                       39
 
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.217 VIBRATIONS.
   (A)   Vibrations within a district shall be controlled so as not to become a
nuisance to adjacent uses.
   (B)   (1)   No industrial operation or activity (except those not under the
direct control of the manufacturer) shall cause at any time ground transmitted
vibrations in excess of the limits set forth below.
      (2)   Vibrations shall be measured at any point along a residence
district boundary line with a three component measuring instrument approved by
the Zoning Administrator and shall be expressed as displacement in inches.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.218 TOXIC AND NOXIOUS MATTER.
   (A)   No activity or operation shall cause, at any time, the discharge of
toxic or noxious matter across lot lines in such concentration as to be
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or welfare or
cause injury or damage to the environment, property or business.
   (B)   Determination of such adverse affects shall be made by the Zoning
Officer.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.219 ODOROUS MATTER.
 
Frequency (cycles per second) (Inches) Maximum Permitted Displacement along
                              Residence District Boundaries
0 to10                        0.0008
10 to 20                      0.0005
20 to 30                      0.0002
30 to 40                      0.0002
40 and over                   .0001
 
   (A)   The emission of odorous matter in such manner or quantity as to be
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or welfare is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall henceforth be unlawful.
   (B)   No activity or operation shall cause, at any time, the discharge of
odorous matter in such concentrations as to be detectable without the use of
instruments at any point along lot lines.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.220 FIRE AND EXPLOSIVE HAZARDS.
   (A)   The manufacture, utilization or storage of pyrographic and explosive
dusts shall be in accordance with the safety codes of the National Fire
Protection Association. Such dusts include, but are not limited to: aluminum,
bronze and magnesium powder; powdered coal; powdered plastics; flour and feed;
spices; starches; sugar; cocoa; sulfur; grain (storage); and wood flour.
   (B)   In the I-1 District, the following additional rules shall apply.
      (1)   The storage, utilization or manufacture of solid materials or
products ranging from incombustible to subject to moderate burning is
permitted.
      (2)   The storage, utilization or manufacture of solid materials or
products ranging from free or active burning to intense burning is permitted
provided the following condition is met: said materials shall be stored,
utilized or manufactured within completely enclosed buildings having
incombustible exterior walls, or protected throughout by an automatic fire
extinguishing system or said materials may be stored outdoors, and such storage
shall have 50 feet clearance from all property lines.
   (C)   In the I-2 District, the following additional rules shall apply.
      (1)   The storage, utilization or manufacture of solid materials, ranging
from incombustible to subject to intense burning is permitted, subject to all
applicable rules.
      (2)   The storage and utilization of flammable liquids or materials,
which produce flammable or explosive vapors or bases, shall be permitted in
accordance with the rules of the office of the state’s Fire Marshal or any
successor agency.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.221 GLARE AND HEAT.
   Any operation producing intense glare or heat shall be performed within a
completely enclosed building in such manner as not to create a public nuisance
or hazard along lot lines. Exposed sources of light shall be shielded so as not
to create a nuisance across lot lines. Determination of the nuisance factor in
regard to glare or heat intensity shall be made by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see §
154.999
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 154.235 CONSTRUCTION AND USE.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no
structure or part thereof shall hereafter be constructed, erected, altered,
remodeled, extended or moved unless in conformity with all the regulations and
standards herein specified for the district in which it shall be located.
   (B)   No structure shall hereafter be constructed, erected, altered,
remodeled, extended or moved:
      (1)   To exceed the height;
      (2)   To occupy or house a greater number of bedrooms;
      (3)   To occupy a greater percentage of the lot area;
      (4)   To exceed the floor area ratio;
      (5)   To have smaller or less habitable floor area per dwelling unit or
lodging unit; and
      (6)   To exceed the maximum floor area than hereinafter required or in
any manner contrary to regulations and standards of the district in which it is
located.
   (C)   In no case other than in planned developments shall there be more than
one main or principal structure, or main or principal use on one lot or tract
of land.
   (D)   No accessory use shall be established prior to the establishment of
the main or principal use, and no accessory structure shall be constructed,
erected, altered, remodeled, extended or moved prior to the establishment or
construction of the main or principal structure, except those accessory uses
and structures of a temporary nature required for the establishment of the main
or principal use, or for the construction of the main or principal structure.
   (E)   No structure shall be constructed or erected on a lot or tract of land
or moved to a lot or tract of land, which does not abut a public street or
permanent easement of access to a public street. Such easement shall have a
minimum width of 20 feet unless an easement of less width was on record prior
to the effective date of this chapter.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require any change in the
plans, construction or designated use of any structure existing or upon which
construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of this chapter;
provided that, such structure shall be completed within one calendar year from
the effective date of this chapter.
   (G)   The performance standards, regulations and standards, rules,
requirements, provisions and restrictions set by this chapter shall apply to
all structures, uses, lots and tracts of land created or established after the
effective date of this chapter and shall not be deemed to require any change in
the structures, uses, lots and/or tracts of land lawfully existing on the
effective date of this chapter except as expressly specified hereinafter.
   (H)   The uses permitted in one district shall not be permitted in any other
district unless specifically stated.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.236 OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   No part of a yard, buffer strip, or other open space, off-street
parking space or loading berth or lot area required about or in connection with
any structure or use for the purpose of complying with the regulations and
standards of this chapter shall be included as part of a yard, buffer strip or
other open space, off-street parking or loading berth or lot area similarly
required for any other structure or use.
   (B)   No yard, buffer strip or other open space, off-street parking space or
loading berth, or lot shall be reduced in dimension or area below the
requirements set forth hereinafter. Yards, buffer strips or other open spaces,
off-street parking spaces or loading berths or lots created or established
after the effective date of this chapter shall meet at least the minimum
requirements established by this chapter.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.237 HEIGHT.
   (A)   The height of any main or principal structure or accessory building
may exceed the maximum permitted height by one foot for each additional foot by
which the width of each yard exceeds the minimum yard dimension for the
district in which such structure is located.
   (B)   Height regulations and standards shall not apply to spires, belfries,
penthouses or domes not used for human occupancy nor to chimneys, ventilators,
skylights, water tanks, bulkheads, utility poles and power silos, and other
necessary mechanical appurtenances; provided, their location shall conform
where applicable to the regulations and standards of the Federal Communications
Commission, the Civil Aeronautics Administration and other public authorities
having jurisdiction.
   (C)   In no event shall any structure exceed 54 feet in height.
   (D)   All buildings and all main or principal structures shall be positioned
on conformance with the setback line regulations and standards specified
hereinafter for the district in which they are located.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.238 YARDS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the minimum yard
dimensions specified thereinafter shall not be reduced, except through action
by the Board.
   (B)   Yards shall be kept unobstructed for their entire depth except as
specified hereinafter.
   (C)   Private driveways, service drives, easements, sidewalks, flagpoles,
arbors, trellises, fences, walls, columns, light poles, hydrants, patios,
accessory signs and other decorative recreational, and utility devices and
equipment may be placed in any yard.
   (D)   Fences, walls and/or hedges may be placed in any yard or along the
edge of any yard subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   Front yard fences shall not be allowed without first receiving
approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals. A front yard is defined in §
154.003 of this chapter. If a front yard fence is approved, the fence shall not
exceed four feet in height.
      (2)   Corner lots, as defined in §
154.003 of this chapter, shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from the
property line abutting the street and shall not exceed four feet in height. A
corner lot, front or side yard fence, shall not be allowed without first
receiving approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (3)   Side yard fences on interior lots and all rear yard fences shall
not exceed six feet in height. An interior lot is any lot that is not a corner
lot.
      (4)   A fence to a height of six feet shall be constructed around any
swimming pool of any type either beneath the ground level or above the ground
level which now exists or which in the future is constructed and which fence
shall have entrances which shall have locks fastened thereto to prevent the
entry into the swimming pool enclosed area by unauthorized or uninvited
persons. In the event any such fence or pool would necessarily extend beyond
the front line of the house on the property of which it is a part, then
construction of said fence shall be made only upon obtaining a variance
therefore and approval to build the fence from the Zoning Board of Appeals.
Persons owning or constructing swimming pools as described above, shall erect
the necessary fence and comply with the provisions of this section within 90
days after the effective date of this amendment.
   (E)   On a corner lot, nothing shall be constructed, erected, placed,
planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as materially to impede vision
between a height of two and one-half feet and ten feet above the centerline
grades of the intersecting streets in an area bounded by the street right-of
way lines of such corner lot and a straight line joining points along said
street right-of-way lines 50 feet from the nearest point of intersection.
Beyond such 50-foot limits, division (D) above shall apply.
   (F)   This process is required to obtain a permit from the Zoning Board of
Appeals to construct a fence. Any fence to be constructed must meet established
conditions as hereinafter set forth in this section.
      (1)   Initiation and application. Any person owning or having an interest
in the subject property may file an application for a fence permit. Such
application shall be submitted to the Zoning Board of appeals by filing same
with the Village Clerk with a plan of the fence and proof that the fence
complies with this chapter and requirements herein set forth.
      (2)   Procedure upon receiving such application. When making the final
determination, the Zoning Board of Appeals or its designate shall determine its
conformity with the standards below. If all the standards are met, a permit can
be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals or its designate. A final decision
will be made within 30 days of receipt of a complete application for a fence
permit.
      (3)   Standards required to obtain a permit. When determining if a fence
will be allowed, the Zoning Board of Appeals or its Administrator shall
consider the following:
         (a)   The front yard and corner lot side yard fence does not exceed
four feet in height;
         (b)   The fence shall be at least 40% open in design;
         (c)   The input of surrounding property owners and residents;
         (d)   The proposed fence, considering its placement, height and
construction, is compatible with the surrounding neighborhood and will not
diminish neighboring properties of their full use and enjoyment;
         (e)   The proposed fence will not impair safety, welfare, light or
air, nor substantially diminish or impair property values within the
neighborhood, not impair natural drainage or create drainage problems on
adjacent properties;
         (f)   The proposed fence shall not alter the established character of
the neighborhood; and
         (g)   These standards are applicable to all fence applications as
herein set forth. Fences for an interior lot side yard and rear yard shall not
exceed six feet in height.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.239 EXEMPTIONS FROM REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following structures and uses are exempted from the application of
the district regulations and standards and are permitted in any district:
poles, towers, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes, mains, valves
or any similar distributing equipment for telephone or other communications,
electric power, gas, water and sewer lines; provided that, the installation
shall conform where applicable with the rules and regulations of the state’s
Commerce Commission, the Civil Aeronautics Administration and other public
authorities having jurisdiction.
   (B)   A zoning permit shall be obtained for any aboveground electric
substation or switching station, gas regulator station, water pump station,
telephone exchange or similar utility structure.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.240 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS AND INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Scope. This section applies to all solar energy installations in the
village.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is an
integral part of a principal or accessory building that is not a separate
mechanical device. Building- integrated photovoltaic solar energy systems
replace or substitute an architectural or structural element of a building.
      BUILDING-MOUNTED. A solar energy system mounted on a rack that is
fastened to or ballasted on a building or structure. Building-mounted systems
shall be considered an accessory use.
      GROUND-MOUNTED. A solar energy system mounted on a rack or pole that
rests or is attached to the ground.
      PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM. A solar energy system that converts solar energy
directly into electricity.
      ROOF-MOUNTED. A solar energy system mounted on a rack that is fastened to
or ballasted on a structure roof. Roof-mounted systems shall be considered an
accessory use.
      SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device, structure, or a part of a device or structure
for which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into
thermal, mechanical, chemical, or electrical energy.
      SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected
in the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A device, array of devices, or structural design
feature where the purpose is to provide for generation, collection, or storage
of solar energy.
      SOLAR FARM OR FACILITY. A collection of photovoltaic solar panels that
collect or store solar energy that generates electricity for the primary
purpose of providing electricity off-site from the facility, either retail or
wholesale. This definition includes, but is not limited to, any community solar
farms, utility solar farms, and large-scale solar farms or facilities. SOLAR
FARMS OR FACILITIES are considered principal uses.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. Solar energy systems are considered a
permitted accessory use in all zoning districts where structures of any sort
are allowed, subject to the requirements as set forth below. Solar energy
systems that do not meet the following requirements require a special use
permit. Payment of a building or other permit fee may be required prior to
installation.
      (1)   Height. Solar energy systems must meet the following height
requirements:
         (a)   Building-mounted or roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not
exceed or cause the building or structure to exceed the maximum height for the
zoning district that is associated with the lot on which the system is located.
         (b)   Ground-mounted or pole-mounted solar energy systems shall not
exceed 15 feet in height when oriented at maximum tilt.
      (2)   Setback. Solar energy systems must meet the accessory structure
setback for the zoning district associated with the lot on which the system is
located, as allowed below:
         (a)   Building-mounted or roof-mounted solar energy systems and its
equipment shall not extend beyond the exterior of perimeter of the building on
which the system is mounted or built.
         (b)   Ground-mounted or pole-mounted solar energy systems shall not
extend into the side-yard setback or rear setback when oriented at minimum
design tilt, except as otherwise allowed for building mechanical systems.
      (3)   Visibility. Solar energy systems in residential districts shall be
designed to minimize visual impacts from the public right-of-way, as described
below:
         (a)   Building-integrated photovoltaic solar energy systems. Building-
integrated photovoltaic solar energy systems shall be allowed regardless of
whether the system is visible from the public right-of-way, provided that the
building in which the system is integrated meets all required land use or
zoning requirements and standards for the district in which the building is
located.
         (b)   Reflectors. All solar energy systems using a reflector to
enhance solar production shall minimize glare from the reflectors affecting
adjacent or nearby properties.
      (4)   Lot coverage. Ground-mounted systems' total collector area shall
not exceed half the building footprint of the principal structure.
      (5)   Compliance with village regulations. Nothing in this section shall
be interpreted to waive or suspend any regulations under the Code of Hanna
City.
      (6)   Compliance with government regulations. Nothing in this section
shall be interpreted to waive or suspend any regulations or laws of the State
of Illinois or the U.S. Federal Government, including any state or federal
government agencies.
      (7)   Variances. Any party may seek a variance from the village
regulations where allowed under this chapter.
      (8)   Plan approval required. All solar energy systems require a building
permit or other permit from the village and shall provide a site plan for
review.
         (a)   Plan application. Plan applications for solar energy systems
shall be accompanied by a site plan of the project. The plan must show the
location of the solar energy system on the building or on the property,
dimensions of the system on the property, dimensions of the property,
dimensions of all buildings and structures on the property, distance from the
property lines to the proposed solar energy system, and the property lines.
         (b)   Plan approval. Applications that meet the design requirements of
this section shall be granted administrative approval by the zoning official or
Board of Trustees and shall not require Planning Commission review. Plan
approval does not indicate compliance with applicable building codes or
electric codes.
   (D)   Principal uses.
      (1)   This division (D) applies to ground-mounted solar energy systems
that are the principal use on any lot in the village.
      (2)   Payment of a building or other permit fee may be required prior to
installation.
      (3)   Solar energy systems that do not meet the following requirements
require a special use permit:
         (a)   Height.
            1.   In non-residential districts, the height of any ground-mounted
solar energy system where this division (D) applies shall not exceed 30 feet in
height when mounted at maximum tilt.
            2.   In residential districts, the height of any ground-mounted
solar energy system where this division (D) applies must meet the height
restrictions of the zoning district that is associated with the lot on which
the solar energy system is located.
         (b)   Setback.
            1.   The road setback of any solar energy system where this
division (D) applies shall be no less than 75 feet from the right-of-way.
            2.   The setback distance shall be measured from the edge of the
solar energy system, not from any fencing or other perimeter screening.
            3.   In the instance of solar farms or facilities, the following
standards shall apply:
               A.   Solar farms or facilities to be built on more than one
parcel and the parcels are abutting, a zero side or rear setback shall be
permitted to the property line in common with the abutting parcels.
               B.   A solar farm or facility must be at least 75 feet away from
the nearest principal residential dwelling.
      (4)   Solar energy systems where this division (D) applies shall be fully
enclosed and secured by a perimeter screen or fence with a height of six to ten
feet.
      (5)   Solar energy systems where this division (D) applies shall have
warning signs posted at all entrance and exit points along the perimeter fence
or screen.
      (6)   Plan approval required. All solar energy systems require a building
permit or other permit from the village and shall provide a site plan for
review.
         (a)   Plan application. Plan applications for solar energy systems
shall be accompanied by a site plan of the project. The plan must show the
location of the solar energy system on the building or on the property,
dimensions of the system on the property, dimensions of the property,
dimensions of all buildings and structures on the property, distance from the
property lines to the proposed solar energy system, and the property lines.
         (b)   Plan approval. Applications that meet the design requirements of
this section shall be granted administrative approval by the zoning official or
Board of Trustees and shall not require Planning Commission review. Plan
approval does not indicate compliance with applicable building codes or
electric codes.
      (7)   Compliance with village regulations. Nothing in this section shall
be interpreted to waive or suspend any regulations under this chapter.
      (8)   Compliance with government regulations. Nothing in this section
shall be interpreted to waive or suspend any regulations or laws of the State
of Illinois or the U.S. Federal Government, including any state or federal
government agencies.
      (9)   Variances. Any party may seek a variance from the village
regulations where allowed under this chapter.
   (E)   Decommissioning plan.
      (1)   Any principal use solar energy system shall be required to have a
decommissioning plan to ensure it is properly removed upon the end of the
project life or facility abandonment. FACILITY ABANDONMENT for purposes of this
section shall mean that no electricity is generated by the solar farm or
facility for a consecutive period of two years or when the owner of the solar
farm or facility states in writing to the Board of Trustees that the owner
intends to abandon, vacate, or cease solar energy operations indefinitely.
      (2)   The decommissioning plan shall include the method(s) or mean(s) of
how the solar farm or facility will be decommissioned.
      (3)   The owner shall restore the land to a condition reasonably similar
to its condition before the development and construction of the solar farm or
facility.
      (4)   Decommissioning of a solar farm or facility shall include the
following:
         (a)   Removal of all structures and debris, including solar energy
equipment and fencing or screening;
         (b)   Restoration of the soil; and
         (c)   Restoration of vegetation within one year of the end of the
project life or facility abandonment.
      (5)   A decommissioning plan shall be submitted prior to the start of
construction on the solar farm or facility.
      (6)   If necessary and upon reasonable notice, the village shall be
granted the right of entry onto the property to start or complete
decommissioning. The village may seek injunctive relief to start or complete
decommissioning, and the village may receive reimbursement from the owner or
owner’s successor for decommissioning costs. The village may file a lien
against any real estate owned by the owner or owner’s successor for any unpaid
reimbursement.
(Ord. 23-10-03, passed 10-3-2023)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 154.250 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to prevent added congestion of the
public streets and so promote the safety and welfare of the people by
requiring, in connection with any new construction, that off-street parking and
loading be provided in accordance with the use to which the property is put and
its location in the village.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.251 PROCEDURE AND CONTROL.
   (A)   Procedure. An application for a building permit for a new or enlarged
building, structure or use shall include therewith a plot plan in duplicate,
drawn to scale, and fully dimensioned showing any parking or loading facilities
to be provided in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Extent of control. The off-street parking and loading requirements of
this chapter shall apply as follows.
      (1)   All buildings and structures erected and land uses initiated after
the effective date of this chapter shall not be required to furnish parking or
loading facilities, if construction is begun thereon within six months of the
effective date of this chapter and diligently prosecuted to completion.
      (2)   When a building or structure erected prior to or after the
effective date of this chapter, shall undergo any decrease in number of
dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity, number of employees or
other unit of measurement specified hereinafter for required parking or loading
facilities, and when said decrease would result in a requirement for fewer
total parking or loading spaces through application of the provisions of this
chapter, thereto, parking and loading facilities may be reduced accordingly;
provided that, existing parking or loading facilities shall be so decreased
only when the facilities remaining would at least equal or exceed the parking
or loading requirements resulting from application of the provisions of this
chapter to the entire building or structure as modified.
      (3)   When a building or structure shall undergo any increase in the
number of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity or other unit of
measurement specified hereinafter for required parking or loading facilities,
and when said increase would result in a requirements for additional total
parking or loading spaces through application of the
provisions of this chapter, then parking and loading facilities shall be
increased accordingly, so that the total shall at least equal the parking or
loading requirements resulting from application of the provision of this
chapter to the entire building or structure as modified.
   (C)   Existing parking and loading spaces. Accessory off-street parking and
loading spaces in existence on the effective date of this chapter, may not be
reduced in number, unless already exceeding the requirements of this section
for equivalent new construction, in which event, said spaces shall not be
reduced below the number required herein for such equivalent new construction.
   (D)   Additional parking and loading spaces. Nothing in this section shall
prevent the establishment of off-street automobile parking or loading
facilities to serve any existing use of land or building, subject to full
compliance with the provisions of this section; except that, off-street parking
areas accessory to existing multiple-family structures cannot be located off
the premises containing the main use, unless on a lot adjacent thereto, without
authorization by the Village Board.
   (E)   Damage or destruction.
      (1)   Any building, structure or use which is in existence and is a non-
conforming use on the effective date of this chapter and which subsequently
shall be damaged or partially destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion of other
cause, shall not be reconstructed, re-established or repaired unless off-street
parking or loading facilities equivalent to any maintained at the time of such
damage or destruction shall be restored and continued in operation.
      (2)   However, it shall not be necessary to restore or maintain parking
or loading facilities in excess of those required by this chapter for
equivalent new construction.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.252 SCHEDULE OF REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements governing the number of off-street, parking and loading
spaces in relation to the use of property are as set forth in the following
table and are deemed to be minimum requirements.
   (B)   The requirements for any use not specified thereon, shall be the same
as for a similar specified use, as determined by the Board of Appeals.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, a parking space, shall be deemed an
area of not less than 170 square feet, at least eight feet six inches in width
and not less than 20 feet in length.
Use Minimum Required Parking Spaces Minimum Required Loading Spaces
Use                       Minimum Required Parking   Minimum Required Loading
                          Spaces                     Spaces
Banks, business or        1/400 sq. ft. of floor     1 space per 100,000 sq.
professional offices      area                       ft. of floor area or major
                                                     fraction thereof
                                                     1 space per 100,000 sq.
Bowling alleys            5/alley                    ft. of floor area or major
                                                     fraction thereof
Churches, school
auditoriums, stadiums,    1 space/5 individual seats 0
sports arenas, indoor
theaters
Dwellings                 2 per dwelling unit        0
Establishments handling
the sale and consumption  1/100 sq. ft. of floor     1 space per 100,000 sq.
on the premises of        area                       ft. of floor area or major
alcoholic beverages, food                            fraction thereof
or refreshments
                          1 for each 4 beds, plus 1  1 space for 40,000 sq. ft.
Hospitals, sanitariums,   for each staff and         of floor area, Plus 1
convalescent homes,       visiting doctor, plus 1    space for each additional
nursing homes             for each 3 other employees 100,000 sq. ft. of floor
                                                     area
Hotels, motels, clubs     1 per 3 guests or 1/       0
                          sleeping unit
Lodging, rooming,         1/3 guests, plus 1 for     0
boarding houses           manager
Manufacturing and                                    1 for first 40,000 sq. ft.
industrial uses,          1/2 employees/shift based  of floor area, plus 1 for
warehousing, research and upon the largest shift     each additional 100,000
testing labs                                         sq. ft.
Medical, dental clinics   5 spaces per doctor        0
                          engaged at the clinic
Mobile home courts        2/mobile home lot          0
Mortuaries, funeral       1 space/50 sq. ft. of
parlors                   floor space in chapels and 1
                          parlors
Other places of assembly  1 space/75 sq. ft. gross   0
without fixed seating     floor area
                          Parking space equal to 25%
Private clubs (without    of total membership or 1
sleeping rooms)           space for every 400 sq.    1
                          ft. of floor area,
                          whichever is greater
                          1/300 sq. ft. of floor     1 space per 100,000 sq.
Retail stores and shops   area                       ft. of floor area or major
                                                     fraction thereof
 
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.253 WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS.
   Notwithstanding the above requirements, the required off-street parking or
loading may be waived for establishments in the B-1 Central Business District
where the establishment participates in the development and maintenance of off-
street parking in accordance with the plans for the Central Business District
as adopted by the governing body, upon application to and approval of such
waiver by the Planning Commission, upon it finding that the establishment is a
cooperator in the Central Business District plan implementation.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.254 LOT PLACEMENT.
   All required off-street parking and loading shall be on the same lot with
the establishment or on an adjacent lot or one across a street therefrom.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
NON-CONFORMING USES
§ 154.265 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS.
   The lawful use of signs and billboards, which does not conform to the
provisions of this chapter, shall be discontinued within two years from the
date of the approval of this chapter, and the use of signs and billboards,
which become non-conforming by reason of a subsequent change in this chapter,
shall also be discontinued within two years from the date of the change.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.266 NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   Where, at the effective date of adoption of this chapter, lawful use of land
exists that is made no longer permissible under the terms of this chapter, such
use may be continued, so long as, it remains otherwise lawful subject to the
following provisions.
   (A)   No such non-conforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied by such use at the
effective date of adoption of this chapter.
   (B)   No such non-conforming uses shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portions of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
of adoption of this chapter.
   (C)   If any such non-conforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of one year or more, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to
the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land
is located.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.267 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure, other than a sign or billboard, exists at the
effective date of the adoption of this chapter that could not be built under
the terms of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage,
height, yards or other characteristics of the structure or it location on the
lot, such structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful,
subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way, which increases
it non-conformity.
   (B)   Should such a structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more
than 50% of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed, except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. A
building designed for a non-conforming use, however, may be constructed or
altered beyond the limitations herein provided by action of the Board of
Appeals, after the public hearing, as required by law in case of variances.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.268 NON-CONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES.
   If a lawful use of a structure, or of structure and premises in combination,
exists at the effective date of the adoption of this chapter, that would not be
allowed in the district under the terms of this chapter, the lawful use may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful subject to the following
provisions.
   (A)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
   (B)   Any non-conforming use may be extended throughout any part of a
building, which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time
of the adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use shall be extended
to occupy any land outside such building.
   (C)   If a non-conforming use has been discontinued for a period of one year
or more, it shall not be re-established.
   (D)   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, on which or in a
non-conforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform
to the regulations for the district in which such structure is located and the
non-conforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
   (E)   When a non-conforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for 12 consecutive months, the
structure, or structures and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be
used, except in conformance with the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
   (F)   Where non-conforming use status applies to a structure and premises in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the non-
conforming status of the land.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.269 NON-CONFORMING USE CHANGES.
   (A)   Once changed to a conforming use, no building or land shall be
permitted to revert to a non- conforming use. A non-conforming use shall not be
substituted or added to another non-conforming use.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall also apply to buildings structures, land or
uses which hereafter become non-conforming due to any reclassification of
district under this chapter or any subsequent changes in the regulations of
this chapter.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.270 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   On any building devoted in whole or in part to any non-conforming use,
work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months, on ordinary repairs or
on repair or replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, to
an extent not exceeding 10% of the current replacement value of the building;
provided that, the cubical content of the building as it existed at the time of
passage or amendment of this chapter shall not be increased.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any village official charged with protecting the public safety, upon
the order of such official.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.271 USES UNDER EXCEPTION NOT NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Any use for which a special exception is specifically and expressly
permitted as provided in this chapter shall not be deemed a non-conforming use,
but shall without further action be deemed a conforming use in such district.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not already otherwise provided by
ordinance or by appropriate statutory penalty shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine as set forth in §
10.99. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained or any building,
structure or land is used in violation of this chapter, the proper authorities
of the village, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate
action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, maintenance or use, to
restrain, correct or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of said
building structure or land or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or
use in or about such premises.
   (C)   Within the districts established by this chapter, there exist lots,
structures and uses of land and structures, which were lawful before this
chapter was passed, but which would be prohibited under the terms of this
chapter.
   (D)   (1)   Unless expressly provided elsewhere in this chapter, front yard
setbacks shall be measured from the curb closest to the structure to the front
of the structure facing the curb, or where no curb exists, from the pavement
line closest to the structure.
      (2)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
this chapter and upon which actual building construction has been diligently
carried on. ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined to include the placing of
construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent
manner, demolition, elimination, removal of an existing structure in connection
with such construction; provided that, actual construction work shall be
diligently carried on until completion of the building involved.
      (3)   The attachment of additional signs to a building, or the placement
of additional signs or display devices on the land outside the building, if
such additions are of a nature that would be prohibited generally in the
district involved, shall not be considered as valid non-conforming uses if
attached or placed within a period of 90 days prior to the date of the passage
of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-05-02, passed 5-21-2013)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 2010 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites                                 Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02                             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03                             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04                             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11                             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                                10.04
5 ILCS 120/2.02                            30.27
5 ILCS 120/2.03                            30.27
5 ILCS 120/2.06(g)                         30.30
5 ILCS 430/5-65                            31.01
5 ILCS 430/15-10                           31.01
10 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.                      30.47
20 ILCS 1605/1 et seq.                     132.02
20 ILCS 2635/1 et seq.                     114.027
20 ILCS 3305                               92.45
20 ILCS 3305/7(1)                          92.45
20 ILCS 3305/7(2)                          92.45
20 ILCS 3305/7(8)                          92.45
20 ILCS 3305/7(10)                         92.45
20 ILCS 3305/7(12)                         92.45
20 ILCS 3855/1-92                          55.02;
                                           55.04
30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.  (Repealed)          52.01
35 ILCS 115/9                              110.01
35 ILCS 120/3                              110.01
35 ILCS 200/10-620                         152.003
35 ILCS 200/18-50                          32.02
40 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.                    32.02
50 ILCS 105/2                              30.09
50 ILCS 105/3 et seq.                      32.07
50 ILCS 220/2                              93.15
65 ILCS 5/0.01 et seq.                     53.05
65 ILCS 5                                  10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                            10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                            10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1                          10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-3-1                            93.15
65 ILCS 5/1-3-2                            93.15
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5(a)                      30.09
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5(b)                      30.09
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6                         30.09
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50                        30.45;
                                           30.47
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-55                        30.45
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-65                        30.45
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5                         30.45
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10                        30.45
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5                         30.47
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-10                        30.47
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90                        30.46
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20                        30.28
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25                        30.27
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-30                        30.26
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-35                        30.29
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5                         30.10
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10                        30.10
65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10                        32.07
65 ILCS 5/4-1-1 et seq.                    30.26
65 ILCS 5/4-8-6                            32.07
65 ILCS 5/5-1-1 et seq.                    30.26;
                                           32.02
65 ILCS 5/8-1-1                            32.01
65 ILCS 5/8-1-6                            32.04
65 ILCS 5/8-2-9                            32.02;
                                           32.03
65 ILCS 5/8-3-1 et seq.                    32.05
65 ILCS 5/8-8-3 et seq.                    32.06
65 ILCS 5/8-8-3                            32.06
65 ILCS 5/8-8-4                            32.06
65 ILCS 5/8-9-1 et seq.                    32.07
65 ILCS 5/8-9-1                            32.07
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1                           110.01
65 ILCS 5/8-11-5                           110.01
65 ILCS 5/11-8-4                           93.16
65 ILCS 5/11-20-7                          92.29
65 ILCS 5/11-20-15                         92.09;
                                           92.29
65 ILCS 5/11-20-15(d)                      92.28
65 ILCS 5/11-20-15.1                       92.10
65 ILCS 5/11-42-5                          Ch. 112
65 ILCS 5/11-60-2                          92.46
65 ILCS 5/11-124-1 et seq.                 32.07
225 ILCS 225/5 et seq.                     52.03
230 ILCS 10/1 et seq.                      132.02
230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.                   111.05
230 ILCS 15/1 et seq.                      132.02
230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.                      111.05;
                                           132.02
230 ILCS 25/1 et seq.                      132.02
230 ILCS 30/1 et seq.                      132.02
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.                      113.03;
                                           132.02
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.                     111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.01                          111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.02                          111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.03                          111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.04                          111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.05                          111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.17                          111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.18                          111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.21                          111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.22                          111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.23                          111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.24                          111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.25                          111.01
235 ILCS 5/4-1                             111.04
235 ILCS 5/4-2                             111.02
235 ILCS 5/4-4                             111.02
235 ILCS 5/4-5                             111.02
235 ILCS 5/4-7                             111.04
235 ILCS 5/6-1 et seq.                     111.08
235 ILCS 5/6-1                             111.08;
                                           111.09
235 ILCS 5/6-2                             111.05
235 ILCS 5/6-3                             111.50
235 ILCS 5/6-21 et seq.                    111.07
235 ILCS 5/6-21                            111.07
235 ILCS 5/7-1                             111.04
                                           111.51;
235 ILCS 5/7-5                             111.99;
                                           133.99
235 ILCS 5/7-7                             111.51
235 ILCS 5/7-9                             111.03;
                                           111.51
235 ILCS 5/7-12                            111.52
235 ILCS 5/7-13                            111.53
410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.                     154.057
425 ILCS 30/23                             93.04
425 ILCS 35/1                              93.01
425 ILCS 35/1 et seq.                      93.02
425 ILCS 35/2                              93.02
425 ILCS 35/4                              93.03
430 ILCS 15/1                              93.16
625 ILCS 5/1-123.9                         71.02
625 ILCS 5/1-140.7                         71.02
625 ILCS 5/1-140.10                        71.02
625 ILCS 5/1-140.15                        71.02
625 ILCS 5/1-188                           10.02
625 ILCS 5/11-501 though 625 ILCS 5/11-502 71.03
625 ILCS 5/12-201                          71.03
625 ILCS 5/12-709                          71.04
720 ILCS 5/11.0 et seq.                    114.002
720 ILCS 5/12C-30                          114.002
720 ILCS 5/26-4                            114.002
720 ILCS 5/26.5-2                          114.002
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(12)      111.05
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(4)                      132.02
720 ILCS 5/28-1.1                          111.05
720 ILCS 5/28-2                            132.01
720 ILCS 5/28-2(a)(1) through (a)(4)       132.01
720 ILCS 5/28-3                            111.05;
                                           132.03
720 ILCS 5/28-5(a)                         132.04
720 ILCS 5/28-5(b)                         132.04
720 ILCS 150/0.01 et seq.                  114.002
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.                     114.002
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.                   114.002
720 ILCS 640/0.01 et seq.                  114.002
720 ILCS 670/0.01 et seq.                  114.002
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.                   154.018
735 ILCS 5/15-1101 et seq.                 51.08
740 ILCS 174/15(a)                         31.01
740 ILCS 174/15(b)                         31.01
                                           152.012;
765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.                     152.025;
                                           152.027;
                                           152.028
775 ILCS 5/6-101                           31.01
805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.                    111.04
                                           
 
REFERENCES TO 2010 CODE
2010 Code 2019 Code
2010 Code 2019 Code
31.01     30.09
31.02     30.01
31.20     30.45
31.35     30.46
32.02     30.47
33.01     32.01
33.02     32.02
33.03     32.03
33.04     32.04
33.05     32.05
33.06     32.06
33.07     32.07
51.06     50.02
93.01     93.01
93.02     93.02
93.03     93.03
93.04     93.04
94.01     92.01
94.02     92.02
94.03     92.03
94.04     92.04
94.05     92.05
94.06     92.06
94.07     92.07
94.08     92.08
94.09     92.09
94.10     92.10
94.11     92.11
94.12     92.12
94.20     92.13
94.99     92.99
96.01     92.45
96.02     92.46
96.03     92.47
96.20     92.48
96.21     92.49
96.99     92.99
99.01     150.01
99.02     150.02
99.03     150.03
99.04     150.04
99.05     150.05
99.06     150.06
99.07     150.07
99.08     150.08
99.09     150.09
99.10     150.10
99.11     150.11
135.01    132.01
135.02    132.02
135.03    132.03
135.04    132.04
170.01    30.01
170.02    30.02
170.03    30.03
170.04    30.04
170.05    30.05
170.06    30.06
170.07    30.07
170.08    30.08
          51.01—
171.01    51.17;
          51.99
          52.01—
171.02    52.09;
          52.99
          53.01—
171.03    53.08;
          53.99
171.04    54.01—
          54.06
172.01    Ch. 72, Schd. I;
          Ch. 72, Schd. II
172.02    70.15—
          70.20
172.03    70.01
173.01    151.01
173.02    151.15—
          151.20
173.03    151.35—
          151.41
173.04    151.02
174.01    110.01
174.30    113.01
174.31    113.01
174.32    113.02
174.33    113.03
174.34    113.04
174.35    113.05
174.36    113.06
174.35    113.99
          90.01—
175.01    90.10;
          90.99
          91.01—
175.02    91.05;
          91.99
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
11-01-01   - -2011     30.25—
                       30.30
11-05-01   - -2011     50.01
2011-06    6-7-2011    92.25—
                       92.30
11-09-01   - -2011     50.01
                       133.01—
12-02-02   - -2012     133.05;
                       133.99
12-02-04   2-26-2012   51.05
12-04-02   - -2012     55.01—
                       55.06
12-08-01   - -2012     132.01—
                       132.04
12-08-02   8-21-2012   113.03
12-11-01   11-20-2012  51.05
13-02-01   2-5-2013    30.08
-          5-21-2013   153.01
                       154.001—
                       154.004;
                       154.015—
                       154.022;
                       154.035—
                       154.040;
                       154.075—
                       154.081;
                       154.095—
                       154.102;
                       154.115—
                       154.117;
                       154.130—
                       154.138;
                       154.150—
13-05-02   5-21-2013   154.154;
                       154.165—
                       154.169;
                       154.180—
                       154.186;
                       154.200;
                       154.201;
                       154.215—
                       154.221;
                       154.235—
                       154.239;
                       154.250—
                       154.254;
                       154.265—
                       154.271;
                       154.999
                       92.48;
13-05-04   - -2013     92.49;
                       92.99
                       92.02;
                       92.03;
13-05-05   - -2013     92.09;
                       92.11;
                       92.12
                       114.001—
                       114.007;
                       114.020—
                       114.033;
13-05-06   - -2013     114.045—
                       114.056;
                       114.070—
                       114.073;
                       114.999
13-08-01   8-6-2013    51.05
13-10-01   - -2013     51.05
14-01-01   1-21-2014   51.05
                       152.001—
                       152.012;
                       152.040—
14-02-02   2-4-2014    152.043;
                       152.055—
                       152.058;
                       152.070—
                       152.073
14-08-18   8-19-2014   30.08
14-08-19   8-19-2014   154.055—
                       154.060
14-09-01   9-2-2014    92.12
14-09-02   9-16-2014   51.04
                       71.01—
                       71.05;
15-09-01   - -2015     71.20;
                       71.21;
                       71.99
                       131.01—
15-09-02   9-15-2015   131.05;
                       131.99
16-02-     - -2016     152.025—
                       152.029
16-02-22   2-16-2016   152.012
16-08-01   - -2016     51.06—
                       51.10
17-01-03   - -2017     50.02;
                       50.99
17-05-01   5- -2017    93.02
17-06-01   6-6-2017    151.35
17-06-02   6-6-2017    150.05
                       112.01—
                       112.10;
17-10-01   - -2017     112.25—
                       112.32;
                       112.99
                       70.21—
2018-10-01 10-2-2018   70.23;
                       70.99
18-12-02   12-4-2018   31.01;
                       31.99
20-04-01   4-7-2020    92.45
20-06-02   6-16-2020   90.11
20-11-01   11-3-2020   70.02
20-12-01   12-1-2020   51.05
20-12-02   12-1-2020   150.25—
                       150.38
21-03-05   3-16-2021   51.08
21-05-03   5-17-2021   90.04
                       71.02;
21-05-04   5-17-2021   71.06;
                       71.99
21-06-01   6-1-2021    111.10
21-06-02   6-1-2021    111.10
21-06-04   6-15-2021   71.02;
                       71.06
                       112.01;
21-06-06   6-15-2021   112.45—
                       112.52
21-08-01   8-3-2021    30.04
21-08-02   8-3-2021    111.10
21-10-03   10-19-2021  51.06
                       50.02;
21-12-01   12-21-2021  52.04;
                       152.073
                       50.02;
22-02-01   2-1-2022    51.03;
                       51.12
22-04-01   4-5-2022    51.05
22-04-02   4-5-2022    91.12
22-05-01   5-3-2022    30.04
22-06-01   6-7-2022    152.027
22-09-01   9-20-2022   30.06
22-10-01   10-4-2022   111.10
23-01-01   1-17-2023   51.05
23-03-01   3-7-2023    30.28
23-10-03   10-3-2023   154.240
                       71.01—
24-11-01   11-5-2024   71.06;
                       71.99
                      
 
Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by Hanna City
beginning in 2020. The table includes links to the ordinances (as maintained in
PDF format) and to the code sections affected (where applicable). For other
legislation, including ordinances passed prior to 2020, please contact the City
of Chico.
 
Ordinances that amend the Code and are not yet effective have their
identifiying information highlighted in yellow. Changes made by those
ordinances are not incorporated into the text of the Code until the amending
ordinances are effective. Ordinances that do not affect the code have been
grayed out and are not available in a PDF format for viewing.
 
Jump to:
2020 Ordinances
2021 Ordinances
2022 Ordinances
2023 Ordinances
2024 Ordinances
2020 Ordinances
Ord. No. Passage Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.       Passage Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                            Amending Water and Sewer Service Rates
12-11-01       11-20-2012    
                            Sections Affected:
                            51.05
                            Amending Water and Sewer Service Rates
13-08-01       8-6-2013      
                            Sections Affected:
                            51.05
                            Amending Water and Sewer Service Rates with regards
                            to Swimming Pools
13-10-01       10-1-2013     
                            Sections Affected:
                            51.05
                            Amending Business Regulations with regards to Class
                            C licenses
19-12-02       12-17-2019    
                            Sections Affected:
                            111.10
                            Amending Nuisances
20-04-01       4-7-2020      
                            Sections Affected:
                            Chapter 92
                            Keeping Chickens within the Village
20-06-02       6-16-2020     
                            Sections Affected:
                            Chapter 90
                            Fireworks and Fire Prevention
2010_Fireworks               
                            Sections Affected:
                            Chapter 93
20-11-01       11-3-2020    Class II Truck Routes
                            Amending Water and Sewer Rates
20-12-01       12-1-2020     
                            Sections Affected:
                            51.05
                            Vacant and Foreclose Property Registration
                            Requirement
20-12-02       12-1-2020     
                            Sections Affected:
                            Adding 150.12 - 150.24
 
2021 Ordinances
Ord. No. Passage Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No. Passage Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                      Establishing fees for disconnection costs
21-03-05 3-16-2021     
                      Sections Affected:
                      51.08
                      Regulation of dog registrations
21-05-03 5-17-2021     
                      Sections Affected:
                      90.04
                      Prohibiting operation of certain non-highway vehicles on
                      village streets
21-05-04 5-17-2021     
                      Sections Affected:
                      71.02, 71.06, 71.99
                      Amending Business Regulations with regards to Class A
                      licenses
21-06-01 6-1-2021      
                      Sections Affected:
                      111.10
                      Amending Business Regulations with regards to Sub-Class
                      One licenses
21-06-02 6-1-2021      
                      Sections Affected:
                      111.10
21-06-03 6-15-2021    Compensation Rates
                      Operation of Non-Highway Vehicles on Streets
21-06-04 6-15-2021     
                      Sections Affected:
                      71.06
21-06-05 6-15-2021    TIF District Redevelopment Agreement with Hanna City
                      Coffee Can, LLC
                      Mobile Food Truck Vendors
21-06-06 6-15-2021     
                      Sections Affected:
                      112.01; 112.45—112.52
                      Amending Business Regulations with regards to Classes A,
                      B, E, Sub-class One licenses
21-07-06 7-20-2021     
                      Sections Affected:
                      111.10
21-07-07 7-20-2021    Telecommunications Tax
                      Implementing rules for remote participation at regular
                      and special meetings of the village board
21-08-01 8-3-2021      
                      Sections Affected:
                      30.04
                      Amending Business Regulations with regards to Class F
                      licenses
21-08-02 8-3-2021      
                      Sections Affected:
                      111.10
                      Amending Village water billing cycle
21-10-03 10-19-2021    
                      Sections Affected:
                      51.06
                      Sewers
21-12-01 12-21-2021    
                      Sections Affected:
                      50.02, 52.04, 152.073
 
 
2022 Ordinances
Ord. No. Passage Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No. Passage Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                      Meter installations and connection fees
22-02-01 2-1-2022      
                      Sections Affected:
                      50.02; 51.03; 51.12
                      Water service fees
22-04-01 4-5-2022      
                      Sections Affected:
                      51.05
                      Waste collection and disposal service fees
22-04-02 4-5-2022      
                      Sections Affected:
                      92.12
                      Changing meeting time of regulat meetings of Board of
                      Trustees
22-05-01 5-3-2022      
                      Sections Affected:
                      30.04
                      Approving plats of minor subdivisions
22-06-01 6-7-2022      
                      Sections Affected:
                      152.027
                      Amending standing committees
22-09-01 9-20-2022     
                      Sections Affected:
                      30.06
                      Amending Chapter 111 to increase the number of Class A
                      liquor licenses
22-10-01 10-4-2022     
                      Sections Affected:
                      111.10
                      Increasing the number of gambling licenses
22-10-02 10-4-2022     
                      Sections Affected:
                      Chapter 132
 
 
2023 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Passage Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                      Amending minimum water and combined water rates
23-01-01 1-17-2023     
                      Sections Affected:
                      51.05
                      Board of Trustees: Quorum
23-03-01 3-7-2023      
                      Sections Affected:
                      30.28
                      Amending code to adopt solar installations
23-03-03 10-3-2023     
                      Sections Affected:
                      Adding 154.240
 
 
2024 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Passage Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                      Amending Ch. 71 Recreational Vehicles to allow for
24-11-01 11-5-2024    operation of utility task vehicles on village streets
                       
                      Chapter 71
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
 
 
