VILLAGE OF HANOVER, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through legislation passed 1-30-2012
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
432 Walnut Street, 12th Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Hanover shall be designated as
“the code of Hanover”, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT.  A person acting on behalf of another.
   ANOTHER.  When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD, BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD.  The Board of Trustees of the
village.
   CODE.  The municipal code of Hanover, Illinois, and amendments thereto.
   COUNTY.  Jo Daviess County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD.  The County Board of Jo Daviess County, Illinois.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07)
   COURT.  Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE.  Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24)
   ELECTORS.  Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2)
   EMPLOYEES.  Shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
Village of Hanover”.
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER.  Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08)
   FEE.  A sum of money charged by the village for the carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.  HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET.  May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16)
   ILCS.  Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter
amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR.  Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves,
or as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE.  Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal
nature.
   LICENSE.  The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR.  The President of the Village of Hanover.
   MONTH.  A calendar month.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE.  The Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5.
   MUNICIPAL YEAR.  Shall commence on the first Monday in May of each and every
year.
   NUISANCE.  Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
   OATH.  Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12)
   OCCUPANT.  As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of the building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   OWNER.  When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON.  Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships,
corporations, joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as
individuals.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS.  Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of Hanover. POLICE FORCE  shall be construed to include those persons in the
employ of a village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20)
   PREMISES.  As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY.  Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY.  Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL.  Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK.  The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS.  The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29)
   STATE.  The State of Illinois.
   STREET.  Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT.  As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT.  The meaning established in Section 1 of Article
VII of the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28)
   WEEK.  Seven consecutive days.
   VILLAGE.  The Village of Hanover.
   WHOEVER.  Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners;
principals, agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING.  Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law it shall be:
      (1)   The proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Electronic Commerce
Security Act, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 175, §§ 1-101 et seq.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15)
   YEAR.  A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone
is equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)  (1986 Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 10.03  SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all the acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2)
§ 10.05  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06  REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09  AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11  REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15  ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16  TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17  HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:  (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 38.04  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      The village shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
   Statutory reference:
   Freedom of Information Act, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
village for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 1-2-1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   TAX AND FINANCE
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30:  BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
30.01   Village President
   
30.02   Board members, elections and functions
   
30.03   Meetings of the Village Board
   
30.04   Standing committees
§ 30.01  VILLAGE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Village President shall be elected for a
term of four years, and he or she shall be the President of the Board of
Trustees, as is provided by statute.
   (B)   Bond, oath and salary. Before entering upon the duties of his or her
office, the President shall give a bond with sureties to be approved by the
Board of Trustees conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her
duties, in a sum as determined by the Board. He or she shall take the oath of
office as prescribed by statute, and shall receive a compensation as may be set
from time to time by the Board. (See division (A) above.)
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)   The President shall be the chief executive officer of the village,
and he or she shall perform all the duties as may be required of him or her by
statute or ordinance. He or she shall have supervision over all the executive
officers of the village and over all of the employees of the village. He or she
shall have the power and authority to inspect all books and records kept by any
village officer or employee at any reasonable time.
      (2)   Whenever there is a question as to the respective powers or duties
of any appointed officer of the village, this shall be settled by the
President; and the President shall have the power to delegate to any officer
any duty which is to be performed when no specific officer has been directed to
perform the duty.
   (D)   President Pro Tem. During the temporary absence or disability of the
Village President, the Board of Trustees shall elect one of its number to act
as President Pro Tem who, during the absence or disability of the President,
shall perform the duties pertaining to the office.
(1986 Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 30.02  BOARD MEMBERS, ELECTIONS AND FUNCTIONS.
   Members of the Board of Trustees shall be elected to office for four-year
terms, according to the method provided by statute. The Board shall be the
legislative department of the village government, and shall perform duties and
have powers as may be delegated by statute.
(1986 Code, § 1-5-2)
§ 30.03  MEETINGS OF THE VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   Regularly scheduled meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be held at
7:00 p.m. on the second Tuesday of every month and shall be held at the Village
Hall, unless otherwise designated by ordinance.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Board of Trustees may be called by the
President or by any three members of the Board of Trustees from time to time
upon not less than 24 hours’ notice to all members of the Board of Trustees and
upon posting notice of the special meeting at the site of the regular Board of
Trustees’ meetings not less than 24 hours prior to the time of the special
meeting.
   (C)   All meetings of the Board of Trustees or of any committee,
legislative, executive or administrative bodies thereof shall be public
meetings unless closed pursuant to and in compliance with the Open Meetings
Act, being 65 ILCS, Act 5, §§ 3-5-1 et seq., or any other similar provision of
the laws of the state.
   (D)   Adjourned meetings of the Board of Trustees may be held for the
purpose of completing unfinished business of the regular meetings at times as
may be determined by the Board of Trustees.
(1986 Code, § 1-5-3)
§ 30.04  STANDING COMMITTEES.
   There are hereby created and established the following standing committees
of the President and Board of Trustees of the village:
   (A)   Water and Sewer;
   (B)   Electric and Garbage;
   (C)   Street;
   (D)   Personnel;
   (E)   Budget and Finance;
   (F)   Public Relations; and
   (G)   Police.
(1986 Code, § 1-5-4)
CHAPTER 31:  OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Salary provisions adopted
   
31.02   Residency requirements for police officers
   
31.03   Village Clerk
   
31.04   Village Treasurer
   
31.05   Village Attorney
Solicitation and Acceptance of Gifts
   
31.20   Adoption by reference
Ethics Provisions
   
31.35   Definitions
   
31.36   Prohibited political activities
   
31.37   Gift ban
   
31.38   Ethics Advisor
   
31.39   Ethics Commission
 
   
31.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  SALARY PROVISIONS ADOPTED.
   The salary provisions of the officers and employees of the village are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at
length herein.
(1986 Code, § 1-6-1)  (Ord. passed 1-18-1981)
§ 31.02  RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS FOR POLICE OFFICERS.
   Police officers working less than 32 hours per week may reside outside of
the corporate limits of the village. All other police officers employed by the
village must reside within one mile of the village limits at the time of their
appointment and while serving as police officers.
(1986 Code, § 1-6-2)
§ 31.03  VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   Election; term. The Village Clerk shall be elected and serve for a
four-year term and until his or her successor is elected and qualified as
provided by statute (65 ILCS, Act 5, § 3-5-9).
   (B)   Bond. Before entering upon his or her duties of office, the Village
Clerk shall execute a bond in an amount that is provided by statute,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties.
   (C)   Duties. The Village Clerk shall have and perform the following duties:
      (1)   Signatures. Seal and attest all contracts of the village and all
licenses, permits and other documents as shall require this formality;
      (2)   Seal. Be the custodian of the Village Seal, and shall affix its
impression on documents whenever this is required;
      (3)   Money collected. Turn over all money received by him or her on
behalf of the village to the Village Treasurer promptly upon receipt of the
same; and with the money, he or she shall give a statement as to the source
thereof;
      (4)   Accounts. Keep accounts showing all money received by him or her
and the source and disposition thereof, and other accounts as may be required
by statute or ordinance;
      (5)   Records. In addition to the records or ordinances which the Clerk
is required by statute to keep, he or she shall keep a register of all licenses
and permits issued, and the payments thereof, a record showing all of the
officers and regular employees of the village, and other records as may be
required by the village;
      (6)   Documents. Be the custodian of all documents belonging to the
village which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer;
      (7)   Indexes. Keep and maintain a proper index to all documents and
records kept by him or her, so that ready access thereto and use thereof may be
had; and
      (8)   Attend Village Board meetings. Attend all meetings of the corporate
authorities, and keep a full record of its proceedings in the journal.
(1986 Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 31.04  VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   Appointment; term. The Village Treasurer shall be appointed and serve
until his or her successor is qualified, as provided by statute (65 ILCS, Act
5, § 3-8-1).
   (B)   Bond requirements.
      (1)   The Treasurer shall give bond conditioned upon the faithful
performance of his or her duties and to indemnify the village for any loss due
to neglect of duty or wrongful act on his or her part; and the amount of the
bond shall be an amount of money that is not less than three times the latest
federal census population or any subsequent census figure used for motor fuel
tax purposes.
      (2)   The bond shall be filed with the Clerk, as required by statute.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Village Treasurer shall have and perform the
following powers and duties:
      (1)   General. Perform duties as may be prescribed for him or her by
statute or by ordinance. He or she shall receive all money paid to the village,
either directly from the person paying it, or from the hands of some other
officer as may receive it, and he or she shall pay out money only on vouchers
or orders properly signed by the Village Clerk and the President;
      (2)   Deposit of funds. Deposit the village funds in depositories as may
be selected from time to time, as is provided by law, and he or she shall keep
the village money separate and distinct from his or her own, and shall not
intermingle his or her own money with it or make private or personal use of the
village funds;
      (3)   Records. Keep records showing all money received by him or her, the
source from which it was received, and the purpose for which it was paid out;
and he or she shall keep a record showing at all times the financial status of
the village;
      (4)   Accounts. Keep books and accounts as may be required by the Board
of Trustees, and shall keep them in the manner required by the Board of
Trustees; and
      (5)   Reports. Make monthly reports to the Board of Trustees showing the
state of finances of the village, and the amounts received and spent during the
month, which reports shall be filed. And he or she shall make an annual report
after the close of the fiscal year, as required by statute, with the total
amount of all receipts and expenditures of the village and his or her
transactions as Treasurer during the preceding year.
   (D)   Salary. The salary of the Village Treasurer shall be set by the
Village Board.
(1986 Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 31.05  VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Creation of Office.
      (1)   There is hereby created the office of Village Attorney, an
executive office of the village.
      (2)   The Village Attorney shall be appointed by the President by and
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   General powers and duties. The Village Attorney shall have and perform
the following powers and duties:
      (1)   Suits and actions. Prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions
at law or equity in which the village may be a party, or in which it may be
interested, or which may be brought against or by any officer of the village on
behalf of the village, or in the capacity of the person as an officer of the
village;
      (2)   Judgments. See to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees
rendered or entered in favor of the village and of all similar interlocutory
orders;
      (3)   Advice.
         (a)   Be the legal advisor of the village and render advice on all
legal questions affecting the village whenever requested to do so by any
village official; and
         (b)   Upon request by the President or by the Board of Trustees, he or
she shall reduce the opinion to writing.
      (4)   Special assessments. See to the completion of all special
assessment proceedings and condemnation proceedings; and
      (5)   Ordinances and documents. Draft or supervise the phraseology of any
contract, lease or other document or instrument, to which the village may be a
party; and upon request by the Board, to draft ordinances or resolutions
covering any subjects within the power of the village.
   (C)   Additional counsel. The President and Board of Trustees may retain or
authorize the employment of other counsel to give advice or render service to
the village.
   (D)   Fees. A retainer fee for the services of the Village Attorney is to be
established by ordinance specifying standard services included within the
retainer, and additional services to be billed on an hourly basis.
(1986 Code, § 1-6-5)
SOLICITATION AND ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS
§ 31.20  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The State Gift Ban Act, being 5 ILCS, Act 425, and the provisions included
in the village ordinance adopting that Act, are hereby adopted by reference,
and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 1004, passed 5-11-1999)
ETHICS PROVISIONS
§ 31.35  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE.  Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination or election of Presidential or Vice-
Presidential electors, but does not include activities: relating to the support
or opposition of any executive, legislative or administrative action; or
relating to collective bargaining; or that are otherwise in furtherance of the
person’s official duties.
   CANDIDATE.  A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in § 1-3 of the Election Code (ILCS Ch. 10,
Act 5, § 1-3).
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING.  Has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 3
of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 315, § 3).
   COMPENSATED TIME.  With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
subchapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods,
personal time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a
leave of absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not
fixed, COMPENSATED TIME includes any period of time when the officer is on
premises under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer
or employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF.  Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION.  Has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 9-1.4 of
the Election Code (ILCS Ch. 10, Act 5, § 9-1.4).
   EMPLOYEE.  A person employed by the village, whether on a full-time or part-
time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction
and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work
is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER.  The Village of Hanover.
   GIFT.  Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE.  Any period during which an employee does not receive:
compensation for employment; service credit towards pension benefits; and
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER.  A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY.  Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative or administrative action; relating to collective bargaining; or
that are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION.  A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a county clerk under § 9-
3 of the Election Code (ILCS Ch. 10, Act 5, § 9-3), but only with regard to
those activities that require filing with the State Board of Elections or a
county clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration or other political event;
      (2)   Soliciting contributions, including but not limited to the purchase
of, selling, distributing or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting or other political event;
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution;
      (4)   Planning, conducting or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question;
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls;
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office;
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires;
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question;
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question;
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate or proxy to a political party
convention; and
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE.  Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action:
         (a)   By an officer; or
         (b)   By an employee, or by the officer or another employee directing
that employee.
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business:
         (a)   With the officer; or
         (b)   With an employee, or with the officer or another employee
directing that employee.
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated:
         (a)   By the officer; or
         (b)   By an employee, or by the officer or another employee directing
that employee.
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
(Ord. 1022, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 31.36  PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: as part
of that officer or employee’s duties; as a condition of employment; or during
any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal time off).
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this subchapter.
   (E)   No person either: in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment; or in a position the salary for which is paid
in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant-
in-aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party or of a political organization or club.
(Ord. 1022, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 31.37  GIFT BAN.
   (A)   Solicitation/acceptance of gifts.
      (1)   Except as permitted by this section, no officer or employee, and no
spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as “recipients”), shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any prohibited source, as defined herein, or which is
otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance.
      (2)   No prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift that
violates this section.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (A) above is not applicable to the following:
         (a)   Opportunities, benefits and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public;
         (b)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse
or immediate family member, pays the fair market value;
         (c)   Any: contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code;
or activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate;
         (d)   Educational materials and missions;
         (e)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business;
         (f)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather or grandmother of the
individual’s spouse and the individual’s fiancé or fiancee;
         (g)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as; the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals;
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
         (h)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on a
single calendar day; provided that the food or refreshments are: consumed on
the premises from which they were purchased or prepared; or catered. For the
purposes of this section, CATERED means food or refreshments that are purchased
ready to consume which are delivered by any means;
         (I)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances;
         (j)   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purpose
of this Act, INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and INTER-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity;
         (k)   Bequests, inheritances and other transfers at death; and/or
         (l)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $100.
      (2)   Each of the exceptions listed in this division (B) is mutually
exclusive and independent of every other.
   (C)   Disposition of gifts. An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this subchapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a
gift from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount
equal to its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income
taxation under § 501 (c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or
hereafter amended, renumbered or succeeded.
(Ord. 1022, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 31.38  ETHICS ADVISOR.
   (A)   The Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees shall designate an Ethics Advisor for the village. The duties of the
Ethics Advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of the village,
unless the position has been created as an office by the village.
   (B)   The Ethics Advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and
employees of the village concerning the interpretation of and compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter and state ethics laws. The Ethics Advisor
shall perform other duties as may be delegated by the Village President and
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1022, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 31.39  ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the Ethics
Commission of the village.
      (1)   The Commission shall be comprised of three members appointed by the
Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   No person shall be appointed as a member of the Commission who is
related, either by blood or by marriage up to the degree of first cousin, to
any elected officer of the village.
   (B)   At the first meeting of the Commission, the initial appointees shall
draw lots to determine their initial terms.
      (1)   Two Commissioners shall serve two-year terms, and the third
Commissioner shall serve a one-year term. Thereafter, all Commissioners shall
be appointed to two-year terms.
      (2)   Commissioners may be reappointed to serve subsequent terms.
      (3)   At the first meeting of the Commission, the Commissioners shall
choose a Chairperson from their number. Meetings shall be held at the call of
the Chairperson or any two Commissioners. A quorum shall consist of two
Commissioners, and official action by the Commission shall require the
affirmative vote of two members.
   (C)   The Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees, may remove a Commissioner in case of incompetency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office after service on the Commissioner by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of a copy of the written charges against the
Commissioner and after providing an opportunity to be heard in person or by
counsel upon not less than ten-days’ notice. Vacancies shall be filled in the
same manner as original appointments.
   (D)   The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers;
      (2)   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with §
31.99(B)(3) and refer violations of §§
31.36 or
31.37 to the appropriate attorney for prosecution. The Commission shall,
however, act only upon the receipt of a written complaint alleging a violation
of this subchapter and not upon its own prerogative;
      (3)   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this subchapter;
      (4)   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the village to cooperate with the Commission during
the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to cooperate with requests
by the Commission shall constitute grounds for discipline or discharge; and
      (5)   The powers and duties of the Commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this subchapter.
   (E)   (1)   Complaints alleging a violation of this subchapter shall be
filed with the Ethics Commission.
      (2)   Within three business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
Commission shall send by certified mail return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three business days after receipt by the commission. The notices to the
respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time and
place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
      (3)   Upon not less than 48-hours’ public notice, the Commission shall
meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the complaint is deemed
sufficient to allege a violation of this subchapter, to determine whether there
is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by the complainant, to
proceed.
         (a)   The meeting may be closed to the public to the extent authorized
by the Open Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq. The Commission
shall issue notice to the complainant and the respondent of the Commission’s
ruling on the sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause
to proceed within seven business days after receiving the complaint.
         (b)   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of §
31.37, and there is a determination of probable cause, then the Commission’s
notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled within four weeks
after the complaint’s receipt.
         (c)   Alternatively, the Commission may elect to notify in writing the
attorney designated by the corporate authorities to prosecute those actions and
request that the complaint be adjudicated judicially.
         (d)   If the complaint is deemed not sufficient to allege a violation
or if there is no determination of probable cause, then the Commission shall
send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to the parties of
the decision to dismiss the complaint, and that notice shall be made public.
         (e)   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of §
31.36, then the Commission shall notify in writing the attorney designated by
the corporate authorities to prosecute those actions and shall transmit to the
attorney the complaint and all additional documents in the custody of the
Commission concerning the alleged violation.
      (4)   On the scheduled date and upon at least 48 hours’ public notice of
the meeting, the Commission shall conduct a hearing on the complaint and shall
allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and evidence. The
hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the Open Meetings
Act.
      (5)   Within 30 days after the date the hearing or any recessed hearing
is concluded, the Commission shall either: dismiss the complaint; or issue a
recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator and to the (chief
executive officer or other officer having authority to discipline the officer
or employee), or impose a fine upon the violator, or both. The particular
findings in the case, any recommendation for discipline, and any fine imposed
shall be a matter of public information.
      (6)   If the hearing was closed to the public, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven business days
after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a
fine, or both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine. Within 14 days after receiving the demand, the
Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least 48
hours’ public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the opportunity to
present testimony and evidence. Within seven days thereafter, the Commission
shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the alleged violator and to the
chief executive officer or other officer having authority to discipline the
officer or employee or impose a fine upon the violator, or both.
      (7)   If a complaint is filed during the 60 days preceding the date of
any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the Commission shall
render its decision as required under division (E)(5) above within seven days
after the complaint is filed, and during the seven days preceding that
election, the Commission shall render the decision before the date of that
election, if possible.
      (8)   The Commission may fine any person who intentionally violates any
provision of §
31.37 in an amount of not less than $1,001 and not more than $5,000. The
Commission may fine any person who knowingly files a frivolous complaint
alleging a violation of this subchapter in an amount of not less than $1,001
and not more than $5,000. The Commission may recommend any appropriate
discipline up to and including discharge.
      (9)   A complaint alleging the violation of this Act must be filed within
one year after the alleged violation.
(Ord. 1022, passed 5-11-2004)
§ 31.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
31.36 may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other
than a penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined in
an amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (2)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
31.37 is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than $1,001 and not more
than $5,000.
      (3)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of §§
31.35 through
31.39 to the local enforcement authorities, the State’s Attorney or any other
law enforcement official may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days,
and may be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (4)   (a)   A violation of §
31.36 shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney for the village
by filing in the circuit court an information, or sworn complaint, charging the
offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to the rules of criminal
procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of the guilt of the
defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
         (b)   A violation of §
31.37 may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an attorney for the
village or, if an Ethics Commission has been created, by the Commission through
the designated administrative procedure.
      (5)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of §§
31.36 or
31.37 is subject to discipline or discharge.
(Ord. 1022, passed 5-11-2004)
CHAPTER 32:  TAX AND FINANCE
Section
   
32.01   Municipal service occupation tax
   
32.02   Municipal retailers’ occupation tax
   
32.03   Municipal use tax
   
32.04   Abatement of ad valorem taxes
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01  MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed. A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this
village in the business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the
cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by the servicemen,
either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate
as an incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of 65
ILCS, Act 5, § 8-11-5.
   (B)   Report required. Every supplier or serviceman required to account for
municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of this municipality shall
file, on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by section nine of the Service Occupation Tax
Act, being 35 ILCS, Act 115, §§ 1 et seq.
   (C)   Payment of tax. At the time the report is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
(1986 Code, § 3-1-1)  (Ord. passed 8-1-1961)
§ 32.02  MUNICIPAL RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the village in the business
of selling tangible personal property at retail at the rate of 1% of the gross
receipts from the sales made in the course of the business in accordance with §
8-11-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS, Act 5, §§ 8-11-1.
   (B)   Every retailer required to account for municipal retailers’ occupation
tax for the benefit of the village shall file, on or before the last day of
each calendar month, the report to the State Department of Revenue required by
section three of the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS, Act 120, §§
3 et seq.
   (C)   At the time the report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
(1986 Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 32.03  MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the provisions of § 8-11-
6 of the Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS, Act 5, § 8-11-6, upon the
privilege of using in the village any item of tangible personal property which
is purchased outside the state at retail from a retailer, and which is titled
or registered with an agency of the state government. The tax shall be set at a
rate of 1% of the selling price of the tangible property with “selling price”
to have the meaning as defined in the Use Tax Act, approved July 14, 1955,
being 35 ILCS, Act 105, §§ 1 et seq.
   (B)   The tax shall be collected by the State Department of Revenue for all
municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the title or
certificate of registration for the personal property is issued. (1986 Code, §
3-1-4)
§ 32.04  ABATEMENT OF AD VALOREM TAXES.
   (A)   The village authorizes and directs the County Clerk to abate ad
valorem taxes imposed upon real property, located within the Enterprise Zone
area, upon which new improvements have been constructed or upon which existing
improvements have been renovated or rehabilitated, subject to the following
conditions.
   (B)   Abatement for commercial property shall be at a rate of 100% of the
value of the improvements for the first three years following the assessment
year in which each improvement is completed. However, commercial property may
qualify for an additional three-year real estate tax abatement of 100% for the
fourth year, 66% for the fifth year and 33% for the sixth year followed by a
full property tax bill in the seventh and successive years, if the commercial
property satisfies the cost benefit standards for extended real estate tax
abatement established by the City-County Enterprise Zone Committee, which is
created in § 899.07, after considering various factors, including, but not
limited to, the amount of increase in assessed valuation of the commercial
parcel, and these standards are to reflect the benefits to the community
resulting from the construction or expansion of the commercial parcel.
   (C)   This section is expressly adopted pursuant to the Home Rule Powers of
the City of Freeport under § 6 of Article VII of the Illinois Constitution of
1970.
(Ord. passed 2-28-2002)
§ 32.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 33:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Limitations
   
33.03   Agency established
   
33.04   Coordinator
   
33.05   Functions of agency
   
33.06   Local disaster emergency
   
33.07   Purchases and expenditures
   
33.08   Oath
   
33.09   Testing of civil defense and disaster warning devices
   
33.10   Levy of taxes, appropriations
   
33.11   Authority to accept gifts, services, grants or loans
§ 33.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COORDINATOR.  The staff assistant to the President of the village with the
duty of carrying out the requirements of this chapter.
   DISASTER.  An occurrence or threat of occurrence of widespread or severe
damage, injury or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or human-
made cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind,
storm, oil spill or other contamination requiring, emergency action to avert
danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation,
explosion, riot, accident, or hostile military or para-military action.
DISASTER includes, but is not limited to, all occurrences and threats thereof
which are contemplated by the concept of “emergency services and disaster
operations”.
   DISASTER OPERATIONS.  The functions created in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter to be performed by federal, state, county and
political subdivisions to alleviate the effects of disasters.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES.  The preparation for and the carrying out of the
functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily
responsible, as may be necessary or proper to prevent, minimize, repair and
alleviate injury and damage resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood,
earthquake, accident or other natural causes. These functions include, without
limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health
services, rescue, engineering, air raid and natural disaster warning services,
communications, radiological, chemical and special weapons defense, evacuation
of persons from stricken areas, emergency assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civilian protections, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the
foregoing functions.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION.  Any county, city, village, township or incorporated
town.
   UNITED STATES.  The several states, the District of Columbia and possessions
thereof.
(1986 Code, § 2-1-1)
§ 33.02  LIMITATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to:
   (A)   Interfere with the course of a private labor dispute, except that
actions otherwise authorized by this chapter or other laws may be taken when
necessary to forestall or mitigate imminent or existing danger to public health
or safety;
   (B)   Interfere with the dissemination of news or comment of public affairs;
however, any communications facility or organization (including but not limited
to radio and television stations, wire services and newspapers) may be
requested to transmit or print public service messages furnishing information
or instructions in connection with a disaster or emergency;
   (C)   Affect the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police forces,
firefighting forces, units of the armed fores of the United States, or any
personnel thereof, when on active duty, but the Village Emergency Preparedness
Plan shall place reliance upon such forces available for performance of
disaster-related emergencies; or
   (D)   Limit, modify or abridge the authority of the Village President or the
Board of Trustees vested in them under the Constitution, statutes or common law
of this state or village, independent of or in conjunction with any provisions
of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 33.03  AGENCY ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby created an Emergency Services and Disaster Agency to
prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury or damage resulting from
disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile action, or from
natural or human-made disaster, in accordance with the “Illinois Emergency
Services and Disaster Agency Act of 1975” (S.H.A. Ch. 27, §§ 1101 et seq.)
state statutes.
   (B)   This agency will supercede any Civil Defense or E.S.D.A. agency
heretofore authorized, and shall be known as the “Hanover Emergency Services
and Disaster Agency” (hereinafter “E.S.D.A.”).
   (C)   The Village E.S.D.A. shall consist of the Coordinator and other
technical, clerical and administrative personnel as may be selected by the
Coordinator and may make expenditures within their appropriation therefor as
may be necessary to carry out the purpose of this chapter.
   (D)   The Village E.S.D.A. shall have jurisdiction overhand serve the entire
village, village property not located within the corporate limits of the
village, and with the approval of the Board of Trustees, any contiguous area
which may decide to contract with the Village E.S.D.A. for emergency services
and disaster assistance.
(1986 Code, § 2-1-3)
§ 33.04  COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Coordinator of the Village E.S.D.A. shall be appointed by the
President of the village, and shall become accredited by the State Emergency
Services and Disaster Agency as soon as practical.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the Village E.S.D.A. as prescribed in
and by the State Emergency Services and Disaster Plan Program and the County
Emergency Preparedness Plan subject to the direction and control of the
President of the village. He or she shall coordinate and direct the activities
of all organizations for emergency services and disaster operations within the
area served by the Village E.S.D.A. and shall maintain liaison and cooperate
with the E.S.D.A. and disaster agencies of the county, other counties and
cities and of the federal and state governments.
   (C)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
of the Coordinator, the President of the village shall appoint a successor as
soon as may be practical.
   (D)   The President of the village shall inform the Coordinator at the time
of his or her appointment, and whenever also necessary, the chain of command.
(1986 Code, § 2-1-4)
§ 33.05  FUNCTIONS OF AGENCY.
   The functions of the village E.S.D.A. shall be to:
   (A)   Prepare and keep current a disaster emergency plan for village
E.S.D.A.;
   (B)   Interrelate with business, labor, industry, agriculture, civic and
volunteer organizations and community leaders in the development of a plan;
   (C)   Prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials in written form a
clear and complete statement of the emergency responsibilities of all local
departments and offices and of the disaster chain of command;
   (D)   Cooperate with the county, state and other local E.S.D.A. units;
   (E)   Establish, train and maintain such rescue organizations as may be
deemed proper by the Village Board of Trustees;
   (F)   Establish, train and maintain the communications unit(s) as may be
deemed proper by the Village Board of Trustees;
   (G)   Establish, train and maintain the weather response teams as may be
deemed proper by the Village Board;
   (H)   Establish, train and maintain other disaster response units as may be
deemed proper by the Village Board;
   (I)   Prepare, for issuance by the Village President and Board of Trustees,
resolutions, proclamations and ordinances as necessary or appropriate in coping
with disaster;
   (J)   Cooperate with and liaison with the federal, state and county
governments and any public or private agency or entity in achieving any purpose
of this chapter and in implementing programs for disaster prevention,
preparation, response and recovery; and
   (K)   Do all other things necessary, incidental or appropriate for the
implementation of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 2-1-5)
§ 33.06  LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY.
   (A)   A local disaster emergency may be declared only by the Village
President. It shall not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven
days except by or with the consent of the Board of Trustees. Any order or
proclamation declaring or continuing a local disaster emergency shall be given
prompt and general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the Village
Clerk.
   (B)   The Coordinator of Village E.S.D.A. may, prior to contacting the
Village President, activate such aspects of the Local Disaster Emergency Plan
as may be expedient to mitigate an existing or threatened disaster emergency.
The Coordinator shall contact and consult with the Village President as soon as
is possible after activation under this section.
   (C)   The effect of a local disaster emergency is to activate the response
and recovery aspects of the Village Disaster Emergency Plan and to authorize
the furnishing of aid and assistance thereunder.
(1986 Code, § 2-1-6)
§ 33.07  PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   The Board of Trustees may, on the recommendation of the Coordinator,
authorize any purchase or contracts necessary to place the village in a
position to effectively mitigate any disaster as may be encountered.
(1986 Code, § 2-1-7)
§ 33.08  OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Village E.S.D.A.
shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the oath as set
forth in the “Illinois Emergency Services and Disaster Agency Act of 1975" and
file same with Hanover E.S.D.A. and the county E.S.D.A.
(1986 Code, § 2-1-8)
§ 33.09  TESTING OF CIVIL DEFENSE AND DISASTER WARNING DEVICES.
   The regular testing of outdoor warning devices shall take place as provided
in the “Illinois Emergency Services and Disaster Agency Act of 1975".
(1986 Code, § 2-1-9)
§ 33.10  LEVY OF TAXES, APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Board of Trustees may make an appropriation for E.S.D.A. purposes in the
manner provided by law, and may levy in addition, for E.S.D.A. purposes only, a
tax as provided by the “Illinois Emergency Services and Disaster Agency Act of
1975”.
(1986 Code, § 2-1-10)
§ 33.11  AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT GIFTS, SERVICES, GRANTS OR LOANS.
   Whenever the federal, state or county governments or any agency or officer
thereof or any person shall offer to the village services, equipment, supplies,
materials or funds by way of gift or grant for purposes of emergency services
and disaster operations, the Coordinator acting in behalf of the village may
accept same.
(1986 Code, § 2-1-11)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Public Utilities Generally
   
50.01   Water and sewer connection permits
   
50.02   Electrical service rates and charges
   
50.03   Cross-connection control
   
50.04   Charges for water, sewer and electrical use
   
50.05   Water and sewer use and rates
Use of Water Wells
   
50.15   Definitions
   
50.16   Use of groundwater as potable water supply
   
50.17   Restrictions binding on village
Minimum and Maximum Setback Zone Provisions
   
50.30   Purpose
   
50.31   Definitions
   
50.32   Prohibitions
   
50.33   Waiver, exceptions and certification of minimal hazard
   
50.34   Exclusion
 
   
50.99   Penalty
PUBLIC UTILITIES GENERALLY
§ 50.01  WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No connection shall be made to the village water line or the
sanitary sewer line without a permit issued by the Village Clerk.
      (2)   In multiple-family units a permit must be obtained for each family
unit. The fee for each family unit will be the same as those enumerated in
division (B) below.
   (B)   Permit fee.
      (1)   The permit fees for connections shall be as follows:
 
Connection to the waterworks main $125
Connection to the sewerage main   $150
 
      (2)   Except where connection is made to a waterworks or sewerage main
which has been constructed pursuant to §
153.07, the permit fees for these connections shall be as follows:
 
Connection to the waterworks main $250
Connection to the sewerage main   $300
 
(1986 Code, § 7-3-1)  (Ord. passed 4-11-1972)
§ 50.02  ELECTRICAL SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The rates and charges for electrical service shall be as determined
from time to time by the Village Board of Trustees.
      (1)   All kilowatt hours at 7.5¢ per KWHR.
      (2)   Industrial power: there shall be a negotiated rate with each
industry.
   (B)   All rates and charges shall be subject to a fuel cost adjustment as
set forth in the Alliant Energy Rate Schedule, Sheet No. 2 designated as Fuel
Cost Adjustment Rider LW. The fuel cost adjustment shall be added to or
deducted from the monthly bills pursuant to the formula set forth therein.
(1986 Code, § 7-3-2)  (Ord. passed 11-11-1975)
§ 50.03  CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   If, in accordance with the State Plumbing Code, or in the judgment of
the Superintendent of Water, an approved backflow prevention device is
necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent
of Water will give notice to the water customer to install an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his or her own expense, install the
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the State
Plumbing Code and all applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections
and test made of the approved devices as required by the State Plumbing Code
and local regulations.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public water
supply of the village enter the supply or distribution system of the
municipality, unless the private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of the supply shall have been approved by the
Superintendent of Water and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause surveys
and investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. The surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two years, or as
often as the Superintendent of Water shall deem necessary. Records of the
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five years.
   (D)   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose
of verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and that the Water
Superintendent or his or her authorized agent shall have the right to enter at
any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of verifying
information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross connection
control inspection.
      (1)   On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any information which the
Superintendent may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use
on the property.
      (2)   The refusal of that information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the Superintendent of Water, be deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connection as provided in this section.
   (E)   The Superintendent of Water of the village is hereby authorized and
directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the
water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this section is known to exist, and to take other precautionary
measures as the Superintendent may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water supply distribution mains.
      (1)   Water service to the property shall not be restored until the
conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provision
of this section, and until a reconnection fee of $200 is paid to the village.
      (2)   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Superintendent of Water is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. The action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
   (F)   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1991)
§ 50.04  CHARGES FOR WATER, SEWER AND ELECTRICAL USE.
   The following provisions apply to charges, fees and penalties for water and
sewer connections and service, and electrical connection and service.
   (A)   The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof, and the user of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable for the service on the premises
and the charges, fees and penalties relating thereto, and the service is
furnished to the premises by the village only upon the conditions that the
owner of the premises, occupant and user of the service are jointly and
severally liable therefor to the village for all charges, fees and penalties.
   (B)   If payment of the full amount of the bill is not made within that
period, then a penalty of $10 late fee per month shall be added thereto.
   (C)   (1)   If any bill is not paid by the end of the month, a notice will
be mailed containing a cut off date. If the bill is not paid by the date
indicated on the notice, service may be discontinued for non-payment.
      (2)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the
village official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be
authorized to order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall
have the authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (3)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (4)   When it becomes necessary for the village to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinestated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $25.
      (5)   In addition to the foregoing bills, charges, fees, penalties,
reinstatement charge and original deposit, and an additional deposit in the
amount of $200 for all properties shall be required, and service shall not be
reinstated until the additional deposit, together with all other amounts due,
is received.
   (D)   In the event charges, fees or penalties for service or connection are
not paid within 30 days of the mailing of the second notice, the charges, fees,
and penalties shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent, and
thereafter the delinquencies shall constitute liens upon the real estate for
which the service is supplied, and the Village Clerk is hereby authorized and
directed to file sworn statements showing the delinquencies in the Office of
the Recorder of Deeds of the county and the filing of the statements in the
office shall be deemed notice for the payment of the charges for the service.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1996)
§ 50.05  WATER AND SEWER USE AND RATES.
   (A)   There is and there is hereby established a service charge for the use
of and for service supplied by the wastewater, water and sewage facilities of
the village according to the following schedule:
Schedule of Water Charges - Monthly
Schedule of Water Charges - Monthly
Water tower surcharge            $22
Maintenance charge               $13
Usage charges
   Up to 1,500 gallons        $4 + $13 = $17
   Next 1,500 gallons per mont$4 + $17 = $21
   Next 5,000 gallons per mont$1.50 per 1,000 or fraction thereof
   Next 15,000 gallons per mon$1 per 1,000 or fraction thereof
   Next 50,000 gallons per mon$.70 per 1,000 or fraction thereof
   Over 73,000 gallons per mon$.55 per 1,000 or fraction thereof
 
 
Schedule of Sewer Charges
Per month $15
 
   (B)   All users located outside the corporate limits of the village shall
pay an additional charge of $5 per month as well as any other rates herein set
forth.
   (C)   All water meters, as herein required, shall be furnished by, repaired
by, and remain the sole property of the village. All costs associated with the
installation of the meter shall be borne by the user.  Any person, other than a
person duly authorized by the village, who attempts to repair, alter, tamper
with, or circumvent any such meter shall be fully liable for civil damages and
all costs, attorneys fees, and other expenses incurred in collection and
prosecution thereon and shall be liable to criminal prosecution and fine
pursuant to ordinance and statute.
   (D)   The village shall periodically check the water meter for an accurate
meter reading.  Any persons denying village personnel entry for this purpose,
or any other water related activity shall have their water service
discontinued.  Any water meter found to be tampered with will result in the
water service being discontinued.  A $25 charge will be assessed before water
service is restored.  Persons failing to have a water meter installed will be
assessed a $20 a month use fee.
   (E)   Multiple Unit premises with one water meter. All buildings which have
one water meter but contain more than one commercial or residential unit shall
be charged on one monthly billing sent to the owner and/or manager computed as
follows:  The total monthly gallonage shall be divided by the number of units. 
The water and sewer charge shall be multiplied by the number of units to
determine the total of the monthly bill.  Example: a four unit building with a
monthly water consumption of 15,000 gallons would be billed as follows:
15,000/4 = 3,750 gallons per unit =
   $8.00                         for first 3,000 gallons
   $1.50                         for remaining 750 gallons
   $13.00                        for water system maintenance
   $15.00                        for water-system maintenance
   $59.50                        per unit total
   x4
                                    total monthly water, water-system
   $238                          maintenance, and sewer bill (for four-unit
                                    building)
   $22.00                        town surcharge
 
   (F)   All rates set forth herein will be utilized to compute user water,
water-system maintenance, and sewer fees for and after the month of April 1995
and will be reflected on the bills you receive thereafter.
(Ord. passed 2-15-1995)
USE OF WATER WELLS
§ 50.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision or any other legal entity or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
   POTABLE WATER.  Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes
or preparing foods.
   PROPERTY.  Any property located within the village limits in the village.
(Ord. 1009, passed 2-13-2001; Ord. 1009, passed 6-12-2001)
§ 50.16  USE OF GROUNDWATER AS POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.
   The use or attempt to use as a potable water supply groundwater from within
the corporate limits of the village by the installation or drilling of wells or
by an other method is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 1009, passed 2-13-2001; Ord. 1009, passed 6-12-2001)
§ 50.17  RESTRICTIONS BINDING ON VILLAGE.
   All restrictions contained in this subchapter shall be binding on any
property located within the village.
(Ord. 1009, passed 2-13-2001)
MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM SETBACK ZONE PROVISIONS
§ 50.30  PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to authority conferred by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-125-4 (2000),
and in the interest of securing the public health, safety and welfare; to
preserve the quality and quantity of groundwater resources in order to assure a
safe and adequate water supply for present and future generations; and to
preserve groundwater resources currently in use and those aquifers having a
potential for future use as a public water supply, the provisions of this
subchapter shall apply to all properties located within the minimum setback
zone established under § 14.2 of the Environmental Protection Act (“Act”) (ILCS
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 14.2 (2000)) and this subchapter, and the maximum setback
zone established under § 14.3 of the Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 14.3 (2000))
and this subchapter.
(Ord. 1013, passed 8-14-2001)
§ 50.31  DEFINITIONS.
   Except as stated in this subchapter, and unless a different meaning of a
word or term is clear from the context, the definition of words or terms in
this subchapter shall be the same as those used in the Act and the Illinois
Groundwater Protection Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 1 (2000)):
   ACT.  The Environmental Protection Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 55, § 1 (2000)).
   AGENCY.  The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   BOARD.  The Illinois Pollution Control Board.
   MAXIMUM SETBACK ZONE.  The area around a community water supply well
established under § 14.3 of the Act and this subchapter, and set as 400 feet.
   MINIMUM SETBACK ZONE.  The area around a community water supply well
established under § 14.2 of the Act and this subchapter, and set as 200 feet.
(Ord. 1013, passed 8-14-2001)
§ 50.32  PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §§
50.33 or
50.34, no person shall place a new potential primary source, new potential
secondary source, or new potential route within the minimum setback zone.
   (B)   Except as provided otherwise in §
50.33, no person shall place a new potential primary source within the maximum
setback zone.
(Ord. 1013, passed 8-14-2001)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.33  WAIVER, EXCEPTIONS AND CERTIFICATION OF MINIMAL HAZARD.
   (A)   If, pursuant to § 14.2(b) of the Act, being 415 ILCS, Act 5, § 14.2
(b), the owner of a new potential primary source, new potential secondary
source, or new potential route is granted a waiver by the Agency, the owner
shall be deemed to have a waiver to the same extent from §
50.32(A).
   (B)   If, pursuant to § 14.2(c) of the Act, being 415 ILCS, Act 5, § 14.2
(c), the owner of a new potential primary source (other than landfilling or
land treating), new potential secondary source, or new potential route is
granted an exception by the Board, the owner shall be deemed to have an
exception to the same extent from §
50.32(A).
   (C)   If, pursuant to § 14.2(c) of the Act, being 415 ILCS, Act 5, § 14.2
(c), the owner of a new potential primary source (other than landfilling or
land treating) is granted an exception by the Board, the owner shall be deemed
to have an exception to the same extent from §
50.32(A).
   (D)   If, pursuant to § 14.5 of the Act, being 415 ILCS, Act 5, § 14.5, the
owner of a new potential primary source, new potential secondary source, or new
potential route is issued a certificate of minimal hazard by the Agency, the
owner shall not be subject to §
50.32(A) to the same extent that the owner is not subject to § 14.2(d) of the
Act, being 415 ILCS, Act 5, § 14.2(d).
(Ord. 1013, passed 8-14-2001)
§ 50.34  EXCLUSION.
   Section
50.32(A) shall not apply to new common sources of sanitary pollution as
specified pursuant to § 17 of the Act, being 415 ILCS, Act 5, § 17, and the
regulations adopted thereunder by the Agency, however, no common sources may be
located within the applicable minimum distance from a community water supply
well specified by regulations.
(Ord. 1013, passed 8-14-2001)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
50.15 through
50.17 shall be subject to a fine up to $500 for each violation.
(Ord. 1009, passed 2-13-2001)
CHAPTER 51:  GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
Section
   
51.01   Deposit of garbage and rubbish
   
51.02   Prohibited accumulation
   
51.03   Refuse storage regulations
   
51.04   Rubbish collection and charge
   
51.05   Contract service
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01  DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit anywhere in the village
any garbage or refuse.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump tin cans, bottles, ashes
and similar refuse any place within the village which has not been duly
designated as a dump for the rubbish.
(1986 Code, § 4-3-1)  (Ord. passed 7-1-1958; Ord. passed 8-14-1979)  Penalty,
see §
51.99
§ 51.02  PROHIBITED ACCUMULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any premises to permit any
garbage or refuse to remain on the premises.
(1986 Code, § 4-3-2)  (Ord. passed 8-14-1979)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03  REFUSE STORAGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Use of receptacles. It shall be the duty of every owner, or his or her
agent or occupant, of any house, building, flat, apartment or tenement in the
village to maintain in good order and repair a proper receptacle or receptacles
for garbage, rubbish and similar refuse. It shall be the duty of every occupant
to deposit nothing but common garbage, rubbish or similar refuse in the
receptacle provided for the same.
   (B)   Receptacle specifications. Receptacles for common garbage, rubbish or
similar refuse shall be either of metal, wood, cement, plastic or plastic bags.
   (C)   Restrictions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any unlawful
flammable, toxic or corrosive material, or any etiological agent of disease, or
any other material which is inherently dangerous, hazardous or harmful to
persons, property or the environment, in any receptacle used for common
garbage, rubbish or similar refuse.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place hot ashes in a wood,
plastic or other combustible receptacle.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to place any garbage, rubbish or refuse so
that it can be blown about or scattered by the wind.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to place any garbage, rubbish or refuse or
receptacle out for curbside collection before 12:00 noon of the day immediately
prior to collection.
(1986 Code, § 4-3-3)  (Ord. passed 10-9-1990)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04  RUBBISH COLLECTION AND CHARGE.
   (A)   Collection of rubbish shall be made at the same times and in the same
manner in which garbage is collected within the village.
   (B)   Beginning on the first day of the month following the effective date
hereof, a collection charge of $11 per month shall be made of each individual
householder and each business house in the village for the collection and
disposal of rubbish.
   (C)   The collection charge hereinabove fixed for the collection of rubbish
shall be billed upon the monthly light and power bill of each person and shall
be due and payable at the same time and place as the light and power bill.
(1986 Code, § 4-3-4)  (Ord. passed 7-1-1958; Ord. passed 11-7-1961)
§ 51.05  CONTRACT SERVICE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, from time to time, grant by contract,
franchise or otherwise the exclusive right to a person to collect garbage and
refuse in the village on an exclusive basis, or any other reasonable basis,
that it may deem appropriate and no one shall collect garbage or refuse within
the village without being granted the right to do so by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall provide rules and regulations for the
collection of the garbage and refuse as deemed necessary.
(1986 Code, § 4-3-5)  (Ord. passed 8-14-1979)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The penalty for violation under §
51.01(A) shall be a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $500 for the first
offense, and not less than $25 nor more than $500 for the second offense, and
each day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(1986 Code, § 4-3-1)  (Ord. passed 8-14-1979)
   (C)   The penalty for violation under §
51.02 shall be a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $500 for the first
offense, and not less than $25 nor more than $500 for the second offense, and
each day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(1986 Code, § 4-3-2)  (Ord. passed 8-14-1979)
   (D)   The penalty for violation under §
51.03 shall be a fine of not less than $25, nor more than $500  for each
offense, and each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(1986 Code, § 4-3-3)  (Ord. passed 10-9-1990)
   (E)   The penalty for violation under §
51.05 shall be a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $500 for the first
offense, and not less than $25 nor more than $500 for the second offense, and
each day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(1986 Code, § 4-3-5)  (Ord. passed 8-14-1979)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Excessive noise
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01  EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   No person or persons shall excessively accelerate a motor vehicle, or
test the acceleration or speed of any motor vehicle, from a stopped or moving
position so as to create excessive vehicle noise, whether the speed is below or
in excess of the established speed limits as set forth in the village or the
speed limits as set forth in the state.
   (B)   No person operating any vehicle shall be permitted to needlessly sound
his or her warning horn or operate his or her car or vehicle with the cutout
open to the disturbance of the citizens of the village.
(1986 Code, § 6-1-5)  (Ord. passed 5-11-1971)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Every person convicted of a violation of §
70.01(A) shall be punished by a fine of not less than $10, nor more than $100.
(1986 Code, § 6-1-5)
      (2)   Any person violating §
70.01(B) shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $200 for each offense.
(1986 Code, § 6-1-5)
CHAPTER 71:  STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
   
71.01   Parallel parking
   
71.02   Time limit parking
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  PARALLEL PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in control of any motor vehicle to
permit the same to be stopped in the streets of the village, except adjacent to
the curb of the street, faced in the direction of travel for vehicles on that
side of the street, and it shall be unlawful for any person in control of any
motor vehicle to permit the same to be stopped in the streets of the village a
distance more than 12 inches from the adjacent curb.
(1986 Code, § 6-2-1)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02  TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle on the public
streets of the village for more than 24 hours.
(1986 Code, § 6-2-3)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
71.01 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $25, with costs of suit
for each and every offense or violation hereof.
(1986 Code, § 6-2-1)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $10 nor more than
$25 for each offense.
(1986 Code, § 6-2-3)  (Ord. passed 3-3-1959)
CHAPTER 72:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Bicycles
   
72.02   Skateboards
   
72.03   Snowmobiles
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01  BICYCLES.
   It shall be unlawful to ride any bicycle upon any sidewalk within the
village. It shall also be unlawful to ride any bicycle on the streets, lanes,
alleys or other public places in the village after sunset, unless the bicycle
is equipped with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a
distance of at least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear
so mounted and maintained as to be visible from all distances from beams and
head lamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1997)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02  SKATEBOARDS.
   It shall be unlawful to ride any skateboard upon any sidewalk within the
village. It shall also be unlawful to ride any skateboard on the streets,
lanes, alleys or other public places in the village after sunset.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1997)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03  SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OPERATE.  To ride in or on, or use or control the operation of a
snowmobile in any manner, other than as a passenger.
      SNOWMOBILE.  A self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or ice
or natural terrain steered by skis, or runners, and supported in part by skis,
belts or cleats.
   (B)   Operation of snowmobiles prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a snowmobile in the village under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   On the private property of another without the express written
consent of the owner or lessee of the property; failure to post signs does not
imply consent for snowmobile use;
      (2)   On public property including, but not limited to, school grounds,
park property, playgrounds, recreational areas and golf courses without express
permission to do so by the proper public authority;
      (3)   In a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary or unusual noise so
as to disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other persons;
      (4)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
safety of any person or the property of any other person;
      (5)   Without having the snowmobile registered as provided for by
statute, except that this provision shall not apply to the operation of a
snowmobile on the private property of the owner by the owner or a member of his
or her immediate family;
      (6)   Within the right-of-way of any public street within the village,
except for the following public streets; and
      (7)   In all other respects all snowmobiles operated within the village
limits shall be operated in conformance with the Snowmobile Registration and
Safety Act, as now or hereafter amended at ILCS Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 1-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1010, passed 2-13-2001)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
72.01 shall be fined $10 for each offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
72.02 shall be fined $10 for each offense.
   (D)   A violation of §
72.03 may result in a fine not to exceed $50 for a first offense and a fine not
to exceed $750 for a second offense or any subsequent offense.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1997; Ord. 1010, passed 2-13-2001)
CHAPTER 73:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop intersections
   
II.   U-turns
   
III.   Speed restrictions
   
IV.   Stop and yield intersections
   
V.   One-way streets
SCHEDULE I.  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The intersection of Fillmore Street and Jackson Street is hereby
designated as a stop intersection. All vehicles approaching this intersection
shall stop according to the designated signs as follows: vehicles traveling
east and west on Fillmore Street and vehicles traveling south on Jackson
Street.
   (B)   Every person convicted of a violation of division (A) above shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $10, nor more than $25.
(Ord. passed 5-11-1999)
SCHEDULE II.  U-TURNS.
   (A)   No person shall turn any vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite
direction, making a so-called “U-turn”, at any place on the streets of the
village other than the intersection of two streets and at any of the following
street intersections within the village: Fillmore and Jackson Street, Jefferson
Street and Washington Street, Jefferson Street and Jackson Street, Jefferson
Street and Garfield Street, Washington Street and Fulton Street and Washington
Street and Speer Street.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of division (A) above shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not less than $10 and not more than $25 for each
offense.
(1986 Code, § 6-1-1)  (Ord. passed 3-3-1959)
SCHEDULE III.  SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for drivers of motor vehicles to travel the following
enumerated streets at a speed in excess of the designated limit set forth
below:
Street/Location Speed Limit
Street/Location                  Speed Limit
Blackhawk Street                 15 mph
Fox Street                       15 mph
Illinois Route 84                30 mph
O’Sage Street                  15 mph
Sauk Street                      15 mph
Wapello Street                   15 mph
All other streets in the village 20 mph
 
(1986 Code, § 6-1-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE IV.  STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The following intersections are hereby designated as either stop or
yield intersections.
   (B)   All vehicles approaching these intersections shall either stop or
yield according to the designation of the intersection.
   (C)   The driver of any vehicle which fails to stop or yield at the
following designated intersections shall be guilty of failure to stop or yield
at a stop or yield intersection.
      (1)   Stop intersections.
Streets Direction
Streets                                 Direction
Blackhawk Street and Fox Street         For southeast-bound vehicles
Fillmore Street and Garfield Street     For south-bound and north-bound
                                        vehicles
Fillmore Street and Jackson Street      For south-bound vehicles
Fillmore Street and South Dayton Street For south-bound vehicles
Fillmore Street and South Dayton Street For south-bound and north-bound
                                        vehicles
Fillmore Street and Savanna Road        For east-bound vehicles
Fulton Road and Division Street         For southeast-bound vehicles
Fulton Road and Evergreen Street        For southeast-bound vehicles
Fulton Road and Fulton Street           For east-bound vehicles
Franklin Street and Madison Street      For north- and south-bound vehicles
Hanover Road and Plateau Street         For north-bound vehicles
Hanover Road and Stewart Drive          For north-bound vehicles
Hill Street and Division Street         For south-bound vehicles
Illinois Route 84 North and Blackjack   For southeast-bound vehicles
Road
Illinois Route 84 South and Arthur      For south-bound vehicles
Street
Illinois Route 84 South and Fillmore    For east- and west-bound vehicles
Street
Illinois Route 84 South and Fox Street  For west-bound vehicles
Illinois Route 84 South and Jefferson   For west-bound vehicles
Street
Illinois Route 84 South and O’Sage    For west-bound vehicles
Street
Illinois Route 84 South and Savanna     For southeast-bound vehicles
Road
Illinois Route 84 South and White       For east-bound vehicles
Street
Jefferson Street and Arthur Street      For north-bound and south-bound
                                        vehicles
Jefferson Street and Garfield Street    For south-bound vehicles
Jefferson Street and Jackson Street     For north-bound and south-bound
                                        vehicles
Jefferson Street and North Dayton       For south-bound vehicles
Street
Jefferson Street and Pierce Street      For north-bound and south-bound
                                        vehicles
Jefferson Street and South Dayton       For north-bound vehicles
Street
Jefferson Street and Savanna Road       For north-bound vehicles
Jefferson Street and Washington Street  For north-bound vehicles
Monroe Street and Arthur Street         For north-bound vehicles
Monroe Street and Garfield Street       For north-bound vehicles
Monroe Street and Jackson Street        For north-bound vehicles
Monroe Street and North Dayton Street   For north-bound vehicles
Monroe Street and Pierce Street         For north-bound vehicles
Monroe Street and Washington Street     For west-bound vehicles
Speer Road and Highland Street          For north-bound vehicles
Speer Road and Madison Street           For north-bound vehicles
Washington Street and Franklin Street   For east- and west-bound vehicles
Washington Street and Fulton Street     For east- and west-bound vehicles
Washington Street and Lowell Street     For west-bound vehicles
 
      (2)   Yield intersections.
Streets Direction
Streets                                 Direction
Franklin Street and Highland Street     For south-bound vehicles
Freemont Street and Garfield Street     For south-bound vehicles
Freemont Street and Maple Street        For north-bound vehicles
Freemont Street and South Dayton Street For west- and east-bound vehicles
Hill Street and Whalen Court            For southeast-bound vehicles
Madison Street and Fulton Street        For south-bound vehicles
White Street and Maple Street           For south-bound vehicles
White Street and South Dayton Street    For west-bound vehicles
Wapello Street and Fox Street           For northeast-bound vehicles
 
(1986 Code, § 6-1-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE V. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Streets designated.
      (1)   Traffic shall move along the following streets in the direction as
specified. Any driver of any vehicle which drives in other than the direction
specified shall be guilty of driving the wrong way on a one-way street.
      (2)   The following streets are designated as one-way streets:
 
Street           Direction
Blackhawk Street One way southeasterly from O’Sage to Sauk Street
Fillmore Street  One way east from Garfield Street to Arthur Street
Garfield Street  One way south from Jefferson Street to Fillmore Street
Sauk Street      One way northeasterly from O’Sage Street to Wapello Street
Wapello Street   One way northwesterly from Sauk Street to O’Sage Street
 
   (B)   Town and Country Apartments. It shall be unlawful for anyone to drive
a motor vehicle on any of the streets of Town and Country Apartments in a
direction other than the description indicated by the signs placed on those
streets, that is to say, the streets in Town and Country Apartments have been
designated as one-way streets.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person violating divisions (A) or (B) above shall be
fined not less than $5 nor more than $100, and each violation shall constitute
a separate offense.
(1986 Code, § 6-1-4)  (Ord. passed 9-1-1942)
CHAPTER 74:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking
      
II.   Time limit parking
      
III.   Restrictions on election day
      
IV.   Designated parking areas for disabled persons and disabled veterans
SCHEDULE I.  NO PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle,
whether attended or unattended, on the following streets in the village: the
north side of Monroe Street from its intersection with Washington Street to its
intersection with Arthur Street.
      (2)   Any person violating the provisions of division (A)(1) above shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $10 nor more than $25 for each
offense.
   (B)   (1)   Either side of Illinois Route 84, between Garfield Street and
the southernmost corporate limits. Parking will not be permitted within the
limits of intersections as determined by the state from intersection studies.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of division (B)(1) above
shall be fined not less than $1, nor more than $100 for each offense.
      (3)   This division (B) is prepared in connection with the proposed
improvement of Illinois Route 84, Federal-Aid Route 18, known as State Section
104W and RS-2, and shall go into full force and effect at the time of the
completion of the improvement.
   (C)   (1)   The east side of Washington Street (Illinois Route 84) from
Lowell Street south for a distance of 60 feet.
      (2)   (a)   Any person violating the provisions of this division shall,
upon conviction thereof, be find not less than $25 nor more than $50 for each
offense.
         (b)   Each day that a vehicle remains parked in the location shall
constitute an additional offense.
   (D)   (1)   No parking shall be permitted for a one-hour period from 7:30
a.m. to 8:30 a.m. on the south side of Jefferson Street in the parking stalls
in front of the Hanover Post Office as marked by parking signs.
      (2)   (a)   Any person violating the provisions of this division shall,
upon conviction thereof, be find not less than $25 nor more than $50 fo each
offense.
         (b)   Each day that a vehicle remains parked in the location shall
constitute an additional offense.
(Motion passed 8-8-1995)
(1986 Code, § 6-2-2)  (Ord. passed 3-3-1959; Ord. passed 2-15-1995; Ord. passed
- -1995)
SCHEDULE II.  TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle on the
public streets of the village for more than 24 hours. Any person violating the
provisions of this division (A) shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not
less than $10, nor more than $25 for each offense.
   (B)   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, for longer than two hours from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Monday through Saturday, inclusive, Sunday and legal holidays excepted, on the
following streets: on the north and south sides of Jefferson Street from its
intersection with Washington Street to its intersection with Pierce Street; on
the east and west sides of Washington Street from its intersection with
Jefferson Street to the south end of the Apple River Bridge. There shall be
attached to every vehicle in violation of this division a notice, stating the
violation and instructing the owner or operator to report to the Village Clerk
in regard to the violation and to pay the appropriate fine. If so paid within
24 hours, the sum of $0.50 shall be accepted as full satisfaction of the
violation. If not paid within 72 hours, but within five days, the sum of $3
shall be accepted as full satisfaction of the violation. If not paid within
five days, a warrant shall be issued for arrest of said violator and
prosecution shall be in the same manner as for other violations of village
ordinances.
(1986 Code, § 6-2-3)  (Ord. passed 3-3-1959; Ord. passed 12-4-1962; Ord. passed
11-13-1973)
SCHEDULE III.  RESTRICTIONS ON ELECTION DAY.
   Parking restrictions on the three parking stalls located at the Township
Hall shall be as follows:
   (A)   The first stall, closest to the street on the west side of parking
lot, shall be permanently marked as disabled parking only;
   (B)   The second stall shall provide for unrestricted parking, except for on
election day, at which time the stall shall be restricted to disabled parking
only; and
   (C)   The third stall shall provide for unrestricted parking, except for on
election day, at which time the stall shall be restricted to 15-minute parking.
(Ord. 1008, passed 1-9-2001)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE IV.  DESIGNATED PARKING AREAS FOR DISABLED PERSONS AND DISABLED
VETERANS.
   (A)   The village may establish disabled parking zones on any public
property within the village limits.  These zones shall be marked with an
official sign controlling the area.
   (B)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not
displaying a registration plate, decal, or device issued to a disabled person
or a disabled veteran in accordance with the Illinois Vehicle Code in any
parking place specifically reserved for disabled parking by the posting of an
official sign, including any private or public off-street parking lot, area, or
facility.
   (C)   The village or any person owning or operating any parking lot, area,
or facility may, after notifying the Village Police Department or County
Sheriff's Department, remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or
other place of safety any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for
use by the disabled which does not display a disabled registration plate, decal
or device or a disabled veteran registration plate, decal, or device recognized
under the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (D)   Any person violating this schedule shall be deemed guilty of a code
violation and punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $100 for
each offense, in addition to any costs or charges in connection with the
removal and storage of any motor vehicle authorized under this section.
(Ord. passed 5-12-1992)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   GENERAL NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMAL REGULATIONS
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90:  GENERAL NUISANCES
Section
Nuisance Provisions Generally
   
90.01   Nuisances enumerated
   
90.02   Nuisances on private property
   
90.03   Storage of flammable liquids and explosives
   
90.04   Unwholesome, offensive businesses
   
90.05   Open burning
Plants and Weeds
   
90.20   Weeds declared a nuisance
   
90.21   Height restriction
   
90.22   Barberry bushes
   
90.23   Removal notice
   
90.24   Abatement
   
90.25   Lien
   
90.26   Foreclosure of lien
 
   
90.99   Penalty
NUISANCE PROVISIONS GENERALLY
§ 90.01  NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   The following are declared to be nuisances:
   (A)   The placing of any dead animal, carrion, foul or obnoxious material on
any street or alley, or in any stream of water, or any other place;
   (B)   The burning of any materials in violation of EPA standards;
   (C)   The keeping of bawdy houses or gambling rooms, places of debauchery or
idle resort and places where immoral or indecent conduct is practiced;
   (D)   The pollution of water in any well or cistern or any tank or vessel
used by humans or beast for domestic purposes;
   (E)   The running at large of dogs or other animals known by their owner or
keeper to be vicious, dangerous or diseased; and
   (F)   The breeding of animals in any public place not under cover.
(1986 Code, § 4-2-1)
§ 90.02  NUISANCES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the term NUISANCE is
defined to mean any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which
is detrimental to the property of others or which causes or tends to cause
substantial diminution to the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which the premises are located. This includes, but is not limited to, the
keeping or the depositing on or the scattering over the premises of the
following:
      (1)   Lumber, junk, trash or debris; or
      (2)   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers.
   (B)   Duty to maintain private property. No person owning, leasing,
occupying or having charge of any premises shall maintain or keep any nuisance
thereon, nor shall any person keep or maintain the premises in a manner causing
substantial diminution to the value of the other property in the neighborhood
in which the premises are located.
   (C)   Exterior storage of junked, inoperable vehicles. No person in charge
of or in control of premises, whether as owner or lessee, tenant, occupant or
otherwise shall allow any partially dismantled, wrecked, junked, discarded or
otherwise nonoperating motor vehicle to remain on the property longer than ten
days; and no person shall leave the vehicle on any property within the village
for longer time than ten days; except, that this division (C) shall not apply
with regard to any vehicle in an enclosed building or so located upon the
premises as not to be readily visible from any public place or from any
surrounding private property.
   (D)   Exemptions from provisions. This section shall not apply to any
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place
other than in a residential district and operated in a lawful manner when the
keeping or maintenance of the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
business enterprise; or with regard to the vehicle in an appropriate storage
place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the village or
by any other public agency or entity.
(1986 Code, § 4-2-2)  (Ord. passed 7-9-1974)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Storage of flammable liquids. It shall be unlawful to store any
volatile or flammable liquids or any gasoline in aboveground storage tanks
within the village limits, except where the storage does not exceed ten gallons
of the flammable or combustible liquid.
   (B)   Storing explosives. All highly explosive material shall be kept or
stored in a safe and secure place, and no quantity of powder exceeding 25
pounds shall be stored or kept in one place or building within the radius of
100 rods from the fire limits of the village.
(1986 Code, § 4-1-1)  (Ord. passed 12-11-1973; Ord. passed 2-25-1974)  Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.04  UNWHOLESOME, OFFENSIVE BUSINESSES.
   No packing house, renderies, tallow chandleries, bone factory, soap factory
or tannery shall be established or operated within one mile of the village
limits without first obtaining permission of the Village Board.
(1986 Code, § 4-1-2)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  OPEN BURNING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to or burn any hay, straw,
chips, shavings or other combustible material or refuse in any street or lot,
or in any part of the village, unless permission from the village is obtained,
nor to stack, file, throw or deposit any hay, straw, shavings or other
combustible material in any street, alley, lot or part of the village for in
excess of six months, without having the same enclosed and covered so as to be
protected against fire.
(Ord. 1014, passed 8-14-2001)  Penalty, see §
90.99
PLANTS AND WEEDS
§ 90.20  WEEDS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cockleburr or other
weeds of a like kind, found growing in any lot or tract of land in the village
are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit any
like weeds to grow or remain in any like place.
(1986 Code, § 4-4-1)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21  HEIGHT RESTRICTION.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants other
than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants to grow to a height
exceeding 12 inches anywhere in the village. Any like plants or weeds exceeding
that height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(1986 Code, § 4-4-2)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22  BARBERRY BUSHES.
   It shall be a nuisance and unlawful to plant or permit the growth of the
bush of the species of tall, common or European barberry, further known as
“Berberis Vulgaris”, or its horticultural varieties within the village.
(1986 Code, § 4-4-3)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23  REMOVAL NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to serve or cause to be served a
notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which weeds or plants are
permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this subchapter and to
demand the abatement of the nuisance within ten days.
(1986 Code, § 4-4-4)
§ 90.24  ABATEMENT.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within ten days, the
village may proceed to abate the nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of
the abatement, and the expense shall be charged and paid by the owner or
occupant.
(1986 Code, § 4-4-5)
§ 90.25  LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for weed removal shall be a lien upon the premises.
   (B)   Whenever a bill for the charges remains unpaid for 60 days after it
has been rendered, the Village Clerk may file with the County Recorder of Deeds
a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain a legal description of
the premises, the expenses and costs incurred and the date the weeds were cut,
and a notice that the village claims a lien for this amount.
   (C)   Notice of the lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises
if his or her address is known. Provided, however, that failure of the Clerk to
record the lien claim or to mail the notice, or the failure of the owner to
receive the notice shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien for the
charges as provided in the following section.
(1986 Code, § 4-4-6)
§ 90.26  FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   (A)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be
sold for nonpayment of the same and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied
to pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. The foreclosure shall be in equity in the name of the village.
   (B)   The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
the proceedings, in the name of the village, in any court having jurisdiction
over those matters, against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid
60 days after it has been rendered.
(1986 Code, § 4-4-7)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person committing, creating, continuing or allowing the existence
of any of the nuisances enumerated in §
90.01 shall, on conviction, be fined in any sum not less than $3 nor more than
$100, and shall also be liable in a civil suit for all damages and expense in
the removal of same.
(1986 Code, § 4-2-1)
   (C)   Any person violating §
90.02 shall be punished by fine of not less than $25, nor more than $500 for
each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which the violation is permitted to exist.
(1986 Code, § 4-2-2)
   (D)   (1)   Any person violating §
90.03(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $25 and not more than $100 for each offense. Each violation of §
90.03(A) shall constitute a separate offense.
(1986 Code, § 4-1-1)
      (2)   All persons offending under §
90.03(B) shall be fined not exceeding $50.
(1986 Code, § 4-1-1)
   (E)   All offenses under §
90.04 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $200, and the offender shall
also be liable for a fine of $5 per diem for each day any of the foregoing
industries are operated after notice by the village constable or other office
to abate and cease to operate the same.
(1986 Code, § 4-1-2)
   (F)   Whoever violates any provision of §
90.05 or other ordinance of this village for which another penalty is not
specifically provided, shall be fined not more than $500 for each and every
violation thereof, and every day the violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 1014, passed 8-14-2001)
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
91.01   Findings; legislative intent
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Rabies inoculation required
   
91.04   Dogs disturbing the peace
   
91.05   Running at large prohibited
   
91.06   Presence in cemetery prohibited
   
91.07   Public nuisance
   
91.08   Shooting or molesting animals
   
91.09   Cruelty to animals
   
91.10   Confinement of dangerous animals; warning
   
91.11   Licensing of pit bull dogs and vicious dogs
   
91.12   Confinement of pit bull and/or vicious dogs
   
91.13   Reporting requirements of licensee
   
91.14   Sign required
   
91.15   Fighting prohibited
   
91.16   Impoundment of pit bull and/or vicious dogs
   
91.17   Redemption of impounded pit bull dogs
   
91.18   Revocation of license
   
91.19   Exceptions
   
91.20   Service upon pit bull and/or vicious dog owners
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  FINDINGS; LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   The corporate authority of the village hereby adopts the following
sections.
   (B)   The corporate authority of the village hereby finds as follows:
      (1)   Certain breeds of dogs and dangerous animals present a unique
hazard and threat to the health, safety and welfare of the people and property
in the village; and
      (2)   It is necessary that the corporate authorities adopt reasonable
regulations governing the keeping and licensing of the dogs; to provide
reasonable standards of conduct for the owners of the dogs; to provide for the
protection of the dogs themselves; and to address the desire of the citizens of
the village to be protected from the potential threat of attack or damage.
   (C)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the powers granted to
municipalities in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-1-1, 11-5-6 and 11-20-9.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 91.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BITE.  To seize or cut with the teeth.
   CONFINEMENT STRUCTURE.  A securely locked, pen, kennel or structure designed
and constructed for the keeping of a pit bull dog and which shall be designed,
constructed and maintained in accordance with the standards herein. The pen,
kennel or structure must have secure sides and a secure top attached to the
sides. All STRUCTURES used to confine registered pit bull dogs must be locked
with a key or combination lock when the animals are within the structure. The
STRUCTURE must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the pen
or the sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground no less than two feet.
All STRUCTURES erected to house pit bull dogs must comply with all zoning and
building regulations of the village. All the STRUCTURES must be adequately
lighted, ventilated, and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   CRUELLY.  An act of beating, underfeeding, overloading and/or abandoning any
animal.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL or VICIOUS ANIMAL.  Any animal which shall at any time have
bitten any human being or whom the owner or keeper should reasonably know to
have dangerous propensities and/or to pose a threat to the public and/or which
has been or is trained to attack persons and/or animals on command and/or which
at any time has killed or seriously injured another domestic animal and/or
human.
   FIGHT.  A prearranged conflict between two or more animals but shall not
include a conflict that is unorganized or accidental.
   K-9 PATROL DOG OR POLICE DOG.  A professionally-trained dog used by law
enforcement officers for law enforcement purposes and activities.
   LEASH.  A cord, chain, rope, strap or other physical restraint.
   MUZZLE.  A device constructed of strong or soft material or a metal muzzle.
The MUZZLE must be made in a manner which will not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration, but must prevent it from biting any
person or animal.
   NIP.  To pinch or squeeze with teeth with no breaking of skin or tissue.
   PIT BULL DOG.  Any:
      (1)   Bull terrier breed of dog;
      (2)   Staffordshire bull terrier breed of dog;
      (3)   American pit bull terrier breed of dog;
      (4)   American Staffordshire terrier breed of dog;
      (5)   Dogs of mixed breed or of other breeds than above listed which
breed or mixed breed is known as pit bulls, pit bull dogs or pit bull terriers;
      (6)   Dogs which have the appearance and characteristics of being
predominantly of the bull terrier, Staffordshire bull terrier, American pit
bull terrier or American Staffordshire terrier breeds of dog; and
      (7)   Dogs acknowledged by their owners, orally or in writing, to be pit
bulls.
   RUNNING AT LARGE.
      (1)   The failure to confine a dog or cat on any road, street, alley or
other public place or private property within the village.
      (2)   All animals within the village shall be confined on a chain or
leash in a manner so as to prevent the animal from having any access to an
person or other animal.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 91.03  RABIES INOCULATION REQUIRED.
   Every owner or keeper of any dog and/or cat within the limits of the village
shall cause the animal to be examined annually by a registered veterinarian and
inoculated by the veterinarian in accordance with state law.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  DOGS DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in charge or control of any dog
or for any person who has a dog to allow the dog, by barking, howling, crying
or other distressing or loud or unusual noise, to disturb the peace or quiet of
any place, neighborhood or family in the village. The disturbing of the peace
or quiet of any like place, neighborhood, family or person in the village of
any dog may also be declared a nuisance.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, or person having charge or custody of
any horse, ass, mule, cow, swine, sheep, goat, dog, cat or poultry to permit
the animal or fowl to run at large in the village or to herd or tether the same
in any street, lane, avenue, alley park or public place in the village limits.
Any animal or fowl funning at large or herded or tethered in violation of this
section is subject to penalties as provided §
91.99 is hereby declared a nuisance and is subject to punishment, as provided
in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  PRESENCE IN CEMETERY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or owner to allow any dog or cat within
the village cemetery.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07  PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to exercise proper care and
control of his or her animals to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   (B)   Any dog or cat which habitually barks, howls, yelps, cries or runs at
large so as to disrupt the peace and quiet of the neighborhood or as to
materially disturb or annoy persons in the neighborhood is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance. Unhealthy animals are a, per se, public nuisance.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)  Penalty, 91.99
§ 91.08  SHOOTING OR MOLESTING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot or molest or attempt to shoot
or molest any animal or to rob or attempt to rob any animal or its nest or
young anywhere within the limits of the village, when the animal is not the
property of the person so offending.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the village in any way.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10  CONFINEMENT OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS; WARNING.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep or harbor within the village any animal
known to be dangerous or vicious, unless the person shall keep the animal
safely and securely confined so as to protect from injury to any child or other
person who may come on the premises in the vicinity where the animal may be
located.
   (B)   Adequate warning by sign, or otherwise, shall be given to all persons
coming on the premises in the vicinity of the vicious or dangerous animal.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11  LICENSING OF PIT BULL DOGS AND VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   No person presently possessing a pit bull dog and/or vicious dog shall
possess it after ten days of the effective date of this chapter without having
first obtained a license therefor from the village.
   (B)   An application for a license to possess a pit bull dog and/or vicious
dog shall be filed at Village Hall on a form entitled, “License To Possess A
Pit Bull”, and shall be accompanied by all of the following:
      (1)   Verification of the identity of the owner and current address by
providing a copy of the owner’s driver’s license or other approximate form of
identification;
      (2)   Proof of ownership of the pit bull and/or vicious dog;
      (3)   A copy of the current immunization and health record of the pit
bull and/or vicious dog prepared by a veterinarian licensed to practice in the
state;
      (4)   A certificate of insurance evidencing coverage in an amount not
less than $100,000 providing coverage for any injury, damage or loss caused by
the pit bull and/or vicious dog;
      (5)   Two photographs of the pit bull dog to be licensed taken not less
than one month before the date of the application. One photograph shall provide
a front view of the pit bull and/or vicious dog and shall clearly show the face
and ears of the pit bull and/or vicious dog. One photograph shall show a side
view of the pit bull and/or vicious dog;
      (6)   A license fee of $100; and
      (7)   The village may require other information as is necessary.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application, the village shall forward it to the
Village Police Department, which shall cause an inspection of the premise on
which the pit bull and/or vicious dog shall be kept to determine that the
applicant has complied with all applicable provisions. Upon completion of the
inspection, the Police Department shall notify the village, in writing, of the
results of its inspection.
   (D)   Upon receipt of the results of the Police Department inspection, the
village shall notify the applicant of the approval or denial of the license. In
the event the license is denied, the notification shall be provided in writing
and the reasons for the denial shall be stated. Upon approval, the village
shall issue a license to the applicant.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 91.12  CONFINEMENT OF PIT BULL AND/OR VICIOUS DOGS.
   No person shall possess any pit bull and/or vicious dog unless it is
confined in accordance with this section.
   (A)   Confinement indoors.
      (1)   No pit bull and/or vicious dog may be kept on a porch, patio or in
any part of a house or structure that could allow it to exit the structure on
its own volition.
      (2)   No pit bull and/or vicious dog shall be kept in a house or
structure where the windows are open or when screen windows or screen doors are
the only obstacle preventing it from exiting the structure.
   (B)   Confinement in an exterior yard. No person shall confine a pit bull
and/or vicious dog in an exterior area unless it is confined in a confinement
structure, except that it may be confined outside of a confinement structure in
a manner set forth in division (C) below.
   (C)   Confinement on leash.
      (1)   No person shall permit a pit bull and/or vicious dog to go outside
a confinement structure, house, or other structure unless it is securely
restrained with a leash no longer than four feet in length and fitted with a
muzzle.
      (2)   No person shall permit a pit bull and/or vicious dog to be kept on
a leash unless a person is in physical control of the leash.
      (3)   No leash restraining any pit bull and/or vicious dog shall be
attached to any inanimate object including, but not limited to, trees, posts,
stakes and buildings.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13  REPORTING REQUIREMENTS OF LICENSEE.
   Any person holding a license pursuant to this chapter shall report the
incidence of any of the following events:
   (A)   The sale, barter, exchange, gift or death of any pit bull and/or
vicious dog shall be reported to the Village Police Department within 48 hours;
   (B)   The escape from confinement or the theft of any pit bull and/or
vicious dog shall be reported to the Village Police Department upon discovery
of the escape or theft;
   (C)   The biting or nipping of any person or animal by a pit bull and/or
vicious dog shall be reported to the Village Police Department upon occurrence;
   (D)   The birth of any offspring of a pit bull and/or vicious dog shall be
reported to the Village Police Department within 48 hours of the birth of the
offspring; and
   (E)   The permanent removal of any pit bull and/or vicious dog from the
territorial limits of the village shall be reported within 48 hours of the
removal by surrender of the license of the owner to the Village Police
Department.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 91.14  SIGN REQUIRED.
   All persons possessing a pit bull and/or vicious dog shall display in a
prominent place on the premises where it is to be kept a sign, which is
readable, by the public from a distance of not less than 100 feet using the
words “BEWARE OF DOG”.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 91.15  FIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall fight or bait, conspire to fight or bait or keep, train or
transport for the purpose of fighting or baiting any pit bull and/or vicious
dog.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16  IMPOUNDMENT OF PIT BULL AND/OR VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   Impoundment of pit bull and/or vicious dogs, generally.
      (1)   Any pit bull and/or vicious dog shall be subject to immediate
impoundment by the Village Police Department in a humane facility.
      (2)   If the incident giving rise to the impoundment has resulted in an
injury to a person, the Chief of Police or his or her designee shall notify the
County Animal Control and shall transfer control of the pit bull and/or vicious
dog to its location.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
   (B)   Impoundment of pit bull and/or vicious dog that is running at large.
Any pit bull and/or vicious dog found to be running at large by any member of
the Village Police Department shall be presumed to be in violation of this
chapter and shall be subject to impoundment by the police in a humane facility
for seven days from the date of its impoundment, and after that time the pit
bull and/or vicious dog shall be disposed of unless the licensee notifies the
village, in writing, that it intends to redeem the impounded dog pursuant to §
91.18.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 91.17  REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED PIT BULL DOGS.
   An owner of a pit bull and/or vicious dog holding a license pursuant to this
chapter may redeem the impounded dog if it has been impounded or if it has not
caused an injury to a person and/or real property, and/or personal property,
subject to all of the following conditions:
   (A)   Proof of a valid license issued by the village; and
   (B)   Payment in the amount of $50 per day for the village’s confinement of
the dog commencing the day it was confined and including the day of its
release.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 91.18  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license granted pursuant to this chapter shall be automatically
revoked upon any violation by the licensee of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event of a revocation of the license, the licensee forfeits the
license fee, and the village shall retain the fee, and it is free to pursue any
punishment/penalty against the non-compliant licensee, as found in this
chapter.
   (C)   In the event of revocation, the owner may apply for another license
after the passage of ten days from the date of revocation, and the licensee
must abide by the licensee requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 91.19  EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to any K-9 dogs or police dogs, as defined in §
91.02.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 91.20  SERVICE UPON PIT BULL AND/OR VICIOUS DOG OWNERS.
   A certified copy of this chapter shall be served upon all known pit bull
and/or vicious dog owners. The owners shall have until the effective date of
this chapter to bring themselves into compliance.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   Upon whomever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be imposed the following punishment:
   (A)   First-time offense: $125;
   (B)   Second-time offense: $200; and
   (C)   Third-time on up offense: $500.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2007)
CHAPTER 92:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
92.01   Closing hours
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  CLOSING HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, lounge, congregate in or to
occupy any portion of any village park after dusk; provided, however, that
nothing in this section shall prevent the uninterrupted passage of any person
or persons through the parks over any regularly traveled walk after that hour.
(1986 Code, § 7-2-1)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
92.01 shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $100 for each offense.
(1986 Code, § 7-2-1)  (Ord. passed 4-8-1980)
CHAPTER 93:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Encroachments
   
93.02   Signs and structures on public ways
   
93.03   Street construction regulations
   
93.04   Storm water drainage
   
93.05   Utility poles and structures
   
93.06   Removal of snow and other encumbrances from sidewalks
Excavations
   
93.20   Permit and compliance with provisions required
   
93.21   Application for permit
   
93.22   Permit fees
   
93.23   Bond or insurance required
   
93.24   Manner of excavation, barricades and lights
   
93.25   Excavation restoration
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01  ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ENCROACHMENT.  Any building, fence, sign or any other structure or object
of any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs), which is
placed, located or maintained in, on, under or over any portion of the roadway
right-of-way.
      ROADWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or
by fee simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary
easement during the time the easement is in effect.
   (B)   Encroachment prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect
or cause to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, an encroachment
(hereinabove defined), within the limits of the roadway right-of-way.
   (C)   Additional provisions. This section is intended to and shall be in
addition to, all other ordinances, rules and regulations concerning
encroachments and shall not be construed as repealing or rescinding any other
ordinance or part of any ordinance unless in direct conflict therewith.
(1986 Code, § 7-1-1)  (Ord. passed 12-13-1979)
§ 93.02  SIGNS AND STRUCTURES ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   All persons are prohibited from using any portion of the street, or alley or
public ground for the display of signs, or the erection of awnings, awning
posts, telegraph or telephone poles or racks, or for the purpose of posting
handbills or advertisements thereon, unless permission shall be first obtained
from the Village Board.
(1986 Code, § 7-1-1-1)
§ 93.03  STREET CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS.
   No person shall build any crosswalk upon any street, or change or alter the
grade of any street or alley, or build any curb or gutter upon the same,
without first obtaining permission from the Village Board.
(1986 Code, § 7-1-2)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04  STORM WATER DRAINAGE.
   No one shall obstruct or impede the natural flow of surface water in any
street or alley, or obstruct or injure any bridge, sewer, gutter or water pipe
over which the village has any control.
(1986 Code, § 7-1-3)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05  UTILITY POLES AND STRUCTURES.
   No person shall erect telegraph or telephone poles in any street or alley in
the village without first obtaining permission so to do from the Village Board.
(1986 Code, § 7-1-4)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06  REMOVAL OF SNOW AND OTHER ENCUMBRANCES FROM SIDEWALKS.
   Every owner, occupant, proprietor, lessee or person entitled to the
possession of any vacant lot, house or other building in the city which shall
adjoin any public street shall, during the time snow or ice shall continue on
the ground, by 12:00 noon of each day, clear the sidewalks adjoining the
property from snow and ice and keep the sidewalks conveniently free therefrom
during the day; or shall, in case the snow and ice are so congealed that they
cannot be removed without damage to the sidewalk surface, cause the snow and
ice to be strewn with salt or sand; and shall, also at all times keep the
sidewalks free from dirt, filth or other obstructions or encumbrances so as to
allow citizens to use the sidewalks in a safe manner.
(Ord. passed - -)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 93.20  PERMIT AND COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any excavation in any street,
alley or public place, or to tunnel under any street, alley or public place in
the village, without first having obtained a permit as herein required and
complying with the regulations herein contained.
(1986 Code, § 7-1A-1)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Applications for permits shall be made to the Village Treasurer and shall
state the following:
   (A)   Location of the intended excavation or tunnel;
   (B)   The size thereof;
   (C)   The purpose therefor;
   (D)   The person doing the actual excavation;
   (E)   The person for whom the work is being done;
   (F)   The date when the work is to be started; and
   (G)   The estimated date for completion thereof.
(1986 Code, § 7-1A-2)
§ 93.22  PERMIT FEES.
   The following permit fees are for excavations in, on or under the type of
street indicated:
 
Bituminous-surfaced or asphalt-surfaced streets                     $30
Concrete-surfaced streets within the area maintained by the village $40
Unpaved streets                                                     $15
 
(1986 Code, § 7-1A-3)
§ 93.23  BOND OR INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each applicant applying for a permit shall also file a bond with
suitable sureties conditioned that he or she will suitably guard or protect any
excavation or obstruction maintained or created by him or her, and will
indemnify the village for any loss or damage resulting from injury to any
person or property caused by the excavation or obstruction.
   (B)   In lieu of the bond, the applicant may file a public liability
insurance policy of an acceptable company of the type known as owner’s or
contractor’s protective liability insurance with coverages of $500,000 and
$1,000,000 for personal injuries, and $500,000 for property damage wherein the
village as owner is the named insured.
(1986 Code, § 7-1A-4)
§ 93.24  MANNER OF EXCAVATION, BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any person making any excavation or tunnel shall do so as according to the
terms and conditions of the application, the permit and this subchapter and
shall maintain sufficient and proper barricades and lights to protect persons,
vehicles and animals from injury by or because of the excavation or obstruction
so made.
(1986 Code, § 7-1A-5)
§ 93.25  EXCAVATION RESTORATION.
   (A)   Any person making any excavation or tunnel in or under any street,
alley or public place in the village shall remove all excavated material from
the street, alley or public place and upon the completion of the work for which
the excavation or tunnel was made, backfill the excavation or tunnel with sand
properly water-settled.
   (B)   Twenty-four hours before backfilling the excavation or tunnel, the
permittee shall give notice to the Village Treasurer of his or her intention to
backfill so that the duly authorized representative of the village may inspect
the work done.
   (C)   In case of any unreasonable delay in backfilling, the Village Clerk
shall give notice to the permittee that unless, within ten days, the excavation
or tunnel is refilled properly with sand, then the village will do the work and
charge the expense of doing the same to the permittee.
   (D)   If, at the end of the ten days, the conditions of the notice have not
been complied with, the work shall be done by the village, an accurate account
of the expenses involved shall be kept and the total cost of the work,
materials and equipment shall be charged to the permittee. The charge so made
shall be and constitute a lien against the real property serviced or improved
by the excavation or tunnel.
(1986 Code, § 7-1A-6)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
93.01 shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $500 for each offense; and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists.
(1986 Code, § 7-1-1)
   (C)   Any person violating or aiding or abetting the violation of any
provision of §
93.06, when there is no provision to the contrary, shall be deemed guilty of an
ordinance violation and punished by a fine not less than $25, nor more than
$500 for each offense, and if the violation be continued, each day’s violation
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person who shall fail to comply with the terms and conditions of
the permit herein authorized or shall violate the terms of §§
93.20 through
93.25 shall not hereafter be granted another permit without the prior approval
of the Village Board.
(1986 Code, § 7-1A-7)
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 5-9-1956)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   PAWNBROKERS
      
112.   PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
CHAPTER 110:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License requirements
   
110.03   Classification of licenses; fees
   
110.04   Disposition of fees
   
110.05   Building and location restrictions
   
110.06   Sanitary conditions
   
110.07   Hours of sale
   
110.08   Prohibitions
   
110.09   List of licenses kept
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.  Any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing
more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume, which is fit for beverage purposes.
   CLUB.  A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building, of an extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests; and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided, that the CLUB files with the President of the
Village Board at the time of its application for a license under this chapter,
two copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and similarly
files within ten days of the election of any additional member his or her name
and address; and, provided further, that its affairs and management are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen
by the members at their annual meeting, and that no member or any officer,
agent or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in
the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the distribution or
sale of alcoholic liquor to the CLUB or the members of the CLUB or its guests
introduced by members, beyond the amount of a salary as may be fixed and voted
at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or other
governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
   HOTEL.  Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which 25 or more
rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of the guests and having one or
more public dining rooms where meals are served to the guests, the sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or
buildings in connection therewith and the building or buildings, structure or
structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity.
   RESTAURANT.  Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held
out to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are
actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, the space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAIL SALE.  The sale for use or consumption, and not for resale.
(1986 Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 110.02  LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at-
retail in the village any alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor
dealer’s license, or in violation of the terms of the license.
   (B)   Application for license. Applications for the licenses shall be made
to the President of the Village Board in writing, signed by the applicant, if
an individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof, if a club or corporation,
verified by oath or affidavit, and shall contain the following information and
statements:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant; in the case of a
copartnership, the persons entitled to share in the profits thereof; and in the
case of a corporation, for profit, or a club, the date of incorporation, the
objects for which it was organized, the names and addresses of the officers and
directors and if a majority in interest of the stock of the corporation is
owned by one person or his or her nominees, the name and address of the person;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
      (4)   The length of time that the applicant has been in business of that
character or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued;
      (5)   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made;
      (6)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under the license;
      (7)   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar other license on premises other than that described in this application
and the disposition of the application;
      (8)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of this state or ordinances of this village;
      (9)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof or
by the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor; and
      (10)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state or of the United States, or any ordinance of the village in the
conduct of his or her place of business.
   (C)   Restrictions on license. No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of the village;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
state;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
      (6)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
      (7)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked
for cause;
      (8)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for the license upon a first
application;
      (9)   A copartnership, unless all of the members of the copartnership
shall be qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of the corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than citizenship and residence within the political
subdivision;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale, of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the effective date hereof, or shall have forfeited his or her
bond to appear in court to answer charges for any like violation;
      (13)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued;
      (14)   Any law-enforcing public official, the President of the Village
Board of Trustees, any member of the Village Board of Trustees; and no official
shall be interested in any way, either directly or indirectly, in the
manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor; or
      (15)   Any person not eligible for a state retail liquor dealer’s
license.
   (D)   Renewal of license. Any licensee may renew his or her license at the
expiration thereof, provided he or she is then qualified to receive a license
and the premises for which the renewal license is sought are suitable for that
purpose; and provided, further, that the renewal privilege herein provided for
shall not be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the
President of the Village Board from decreasing the number of licenses to be
issued within his or her jurisdiction.
   (E)   Transfer of license.
      (1)   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to
exceed one year after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this chapter
provided, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated.
      (2)   The license shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate
devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that
executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the
trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when the estate consists in part
of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale or manufacture of
alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the
privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of
the decedent, or the insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of the
license, but not longer than six months after, the death, bankruptcy or
insolvency of the licensee.
      (3)   A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fees paid for
any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under the
license in accordance with the provisions of this section; provided however,
that if the license is revoked for the causes as in this chapter set forth,
there shall be no refund.
   (F)   Revocation of license.
      (1)   The President of the Village Board may revoke or suspend any retail
liquor dealer’s license issued by him or her if he or she determines that the
licensee has violated any provisions of this chapter, or for violation of any
state law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor. However, no such license
shall be revoked or suspended except after a public hearing by the President of
the Village Board with a three-day written notice to the licensee affording the
licensee an opportunity to appear and defend. If the President of the Village
Board has reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular
licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the community, he or
she may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the reason for the
conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the licensed premises closed
for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard
during that period. If the licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of
another business or businesses on the licensed premises, the order shall not be
applicable to the other business or businesses.
      (2)   The President of the Village Board shall, within five days after
the hearing, if he or she determines after the hearing that the license should
be revoked or suspended, state the reason or reasons for the determination in a
written order, and either the period of suspension or that the license has been
revoked, and shall serve a copy of the order within five days upon the
licensee.
(1986 Code, § 3-2-2)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03  CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES.
   The licenses shall be, and are hereby divided into four classes, to-wit:
   (A)   Class A. Class A licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale on
the premises specified of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises as
well as other retail sales of the liquor. The annual fee for the license shall
be $750, payable in advance (see also §
110.07(A)); and
   (B)   Class B. Class B licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale on
the premises specified of beer, ale, and wine for consumption on the premises
specified in the licenses. The licenses shall issue only to restaurants or
hotels, whose principal business is not the retail sale of alcoholic beverages.
The annual fee for the license shall be $300, payable in advance.
   (C)   Class C Club. Class C club licenses, which shall authorize the retail
sale of spirituous liquors and malt beverages for consumption on the premises.
The license shall issue only to a fraternal association, brotherhood or
society, membership in which is dependent upon a vote of the duly elected
members thereof already duly organized as such, and shall entitle the
brotherhood or association to sell at retail on the premises usually occupied
by the brotherhood or association any spirituous liquors or malt beverages to
any duly elected member of the organization or to any guest invited by him or
her to the premises occupied by the organization. The annual fee for the
license shall be $500, payable in advance.
   (D)   Class D. Class D licenses shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor as well as beer and ale in package form, but not for consumption on the
premises. The annual fee for the license shall be $375, payable in advance.
(1986 Code, § 3-2-3)  (Ord. passed 6-13-1989; Ord. passed 7-11-1989)
§ 110.04  DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   (A)   All the fees shall be paid to the President of the Village Board of
Trustees at the time application is made, and shall be forthwith turned over to
the Treasurer.
   (B)   In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (C)   If the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the
General Corporate Fund or in another fund as shall have been designated by the
Board of Trustees by proper action.
(1986 Code, § 3-2-4)
§ 110.05  BUILDING AND LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Location restriction. No license shall be issued for the sale at
retail of any alcoholic liquor within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital,
home for aged or indigent persons or for veterans, their wives, or children or
any military or naval station; provided that, this prohibition shall not apply
to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to
restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not
the principal business carried on, if the place of business not excepted shall
have been established for those purposes prior to the effective date hereof.
   (B)   Change of location.
      (1)   A retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor only in the premises described in the application and license. The
location may be changed only upon written permit to make the change issued by
the President of the Village Board.
      (2)   No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the law
of this state and the ordinances of the village.
(1986 Code, § 3-2-6)
§ 110.06  SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Premises. All the premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor or for the storage of the liquor for the sale, shall be kept in a clean
and sanitary condition, and shall be kept in full compliance with the
ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for the storage or sale of
food for human consumption.
   (B)   Employees. It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a
carrier of any contagious, infectious or venereal disease; and it shall be
unlawful for any person who is afflicted with, or a carrier of any such disease
to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the handling,
preparation or distribution of the liquor.
(1986 Code, § 3-2-7)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07  HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   Hours restricted:
      (1)   Class A licenses. It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale or
give away any alcoholic liquor in any commercial establishment within the
corporate limits of the village between the hours of 1:00 a.m.  and 7:00 a.m.
Monday through Saturday, and between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on
Sunday.
      (2)   Class C club licenses. It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale
or give away any alcoholic liquor in any establishment holding a Class C club
license between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. Tuesday through Saturday,
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon Sundays, and between the hours of
6:00 p.m. Sundays until 7:00 a.m. on Tuesdays.
      (3)   Expansion of hours. License hours may be expanded for either Class
A or Class C licenses by the written consent of the Village President.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale or give away any
alcoholic liquor in any establishment holding a liquor license between the
hours of 6:00 p.m., December 24 and 7:00 a.m. on December 25 of each year.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except the licensee and his or
her employees, to be in any place licensed to sell alcoholic liquor more than
30 minutes after the time for legal sale of alcoholic liquor.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any individual to consume any alcoholic
beverage in any commercial establishment located within the village for which a
retail liquor dealer’s license is then not presently issued. Any owner or
employee of the commercial establishment who knowingly permits the consumption
to take place shall be guilty of a violation of this division (D). For purposes
of this division (D), a commercial establishment shall be deemed to be any
place of business whose primary activity is the sale of goods, merchandise or
food.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to keep for business or to admit the public to
any premises in or on which alcoholic liquor is sold at retail during the hours
within which the sale of the liquor is prohibited; provided, that in the case
of restaurants, clubs and hotels, the establishments may be kept open during
such hours, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold to, or consumed by the public
during those hours.
(1986 Code, § 3-2-8)  (Ord. passed 6-13-1989; Ord. passed 7-11-1989; Ord.
passed 12-12-1989)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08  PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Sale to minors, intoxicated persons. No person licensed under this
chapter shall sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor to any person under
21 years of age, or to any person under the influence of intoxicating liquor,
or to any idiot, insane or otherwise incompetent person; nor shall any licensee
permit any alcoholic liquor to be given in his or her place of business, to any
person under 21 years of age or to any person under the influence of
intoxicating liquor, or to any idiot, insane or otherwise incompetent person.
   (B)   Misrepresent age. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
21 years to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or
obtaining alcoholic liquor in any tavern or other place in the village where
alcoholic liquor is sold.
   (C)   Minors.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or his or her agent or
employee to suffer or permit any minor to remain in any room or compartment
adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the room or place where the licensed
premises are located; provided, that this division (C) shall not apply to any
minor who is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or to any licensed
premises which derives its principal business from the sale or service of other
commodities than alcoholic liquor.
      (2)   In addition to all other fines and penalties, the Village President
may revoke or suspend the license for any violation of this division (C).
   (D)   Identification cards; rules and regulations.
      (1)   If a licensee, or his or her agent or employee, believes or has
reason to believe that a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited
because of the nonage of the prospective recipient, he or she shall, before
making the sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive
identification, containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the
performance of his or her official duties.
      (2)   No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification
card; use the identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged
identification card; or obtain an identification card by means of false
information.
   (E)   Employment of minors. It shall be unlawful to employ any person or
permit any person to serve alcoholic liquor for retail sale or gift in any
establishment holding a license to dispense alcoholic liquor unless the person
serving alcoholic liquor, other than a bartender, is at least 18 years of age
and unless a person tending bar is at least 21 years of age.
   (F)   Peddling. It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
village.
(1986 Code, § 3-2-9)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09  LIST OF LICENSES KEPT.
   (A)   The President of the Village Board shall keep or cause to be kept a
complete record of all the licenses issued by him or her, and shall furnish the
Clerk, Treasurer and the Village Police Authority each with a copy thereof.
   (B)   Upon the issuance of any new license, or the revocation of any old
license, the President of the Village Board shall give written notice of that
action to each of these officers within 48 hours of that action.
(1986 Code, § 3-2-10)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined in an
amount not to exceed $500 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues; provided, however, any person violating the provision regulating the
hours of sale shall be fined not less than $100 and not more than $300 for the
first offense within a three-year period, not less than $200 nor more than $500
for the second offense within a three-year period, and not less than $300 nor
more than $500 for the third and subsequent offenses within a three-year
period.
(1986 Code, § 3-2-11)
CHAPTER 111:  PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
111.01   License required; fee and term
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE AND TERM.
   No person shall, within the village limits, operate in the business of
pawnbroking, unless he or she first obtains license therefor. The license shall
be obtained in the same manner that peddlers are required to obtain license
under this village code (see §
112.01) except that a license fee of $25 per month shall be required, and no
pawnbroker’s license shall be issued for a shorter period than one month.
(1986 Code, § 3-4-1)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   All violations of §
111.01 shall subject the offender to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than
$25.
(1986 Code, § 3-4-1)
CHAPTER 112:  PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
Section
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Application for license; issuance
   
112.03   Conduct of peddlers and hawkers
   
112.04   Fraud
   
112.05   Exemptions from provisions
§ 112.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall, within the limits of the village, peddle any goods, wares
or merchandise, or any other valuable thing, without first obtaining a license
so to do, as hereinafter provided.
(1986 Code, § 3-3-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.02  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE.
   All persons desiring to obtain a hawker’s or peddler’s license shall make
application to the Village Treasurer or Chief of Police stating the kind and
quality of the goods, wares or merchandise he or she intends to peddle, and the
length of time he or she may desire the license. The Village Treasurer or Chief
of Police shall issue the license as required by this section.
(1986 Code, § 3-3-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03  CONDUCT OF PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS.
   No hawker or peddler shall enter the dwelling house of any person without
first having obtained permission from some member of the family or servant, nor
annoy or vex any member or servant thereof by importuning the person to examine
or purchase his, her or their goods, wares or merchandise.
(1986 Code, § 3-3-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04  FRAUD.
   No hawker or peddler shall willfully or deceitfully misrepresent the nature,
kind, quality or utility of the articles peddled by him or her, nor cheat or
injure the purchaser in any manner.
(1986 Code, § 3-3-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05  EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   The vendors of home-grown and locally-grown produce shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 3-3-5)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   CURFEW; MINORS
      
132.   WEAPONS/RECREATION
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Open container of intoxicating beverage on a public way
   
130.03   Adoption of Illinois Criminal Code
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit the offense of disorderly
conduct, and a person shall be deemed guilty of committing disorderly conduct
when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in an unreasonable manner so as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   (B)   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of the village or fire
protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time of the
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that the fire
exists;
   (C)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in a place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of the transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that the bomb or explosive is
concealed in that place;
   (D)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of the transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed;
   (E)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful purpose
deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window or other
opening in it;
   (F)   While acting as a collection agency as defined in the “Collection
Agency Act” (225 ILCS, Act 425, §§ 1 et seq.) or as an employee of the
collection agency, and while attempting to collect an alleged debt, makes a
telephone call to the alleged debtor which is designed to harass, annoy or
intimidate the alleged debtor; or
   (G)   Transmits a false report to the Department of Children and Family
Services under § 4 of the “Abused and Neglected Child Reporting Act” (325 ILCS,
Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.).
(1986 Code, § 5-2-1)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  OPEN CONTAINER OF INTOXICATING BEVERAGE ON A PUBLIC WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any licensed premises or
to carry out from the premises an open container of alcoholic beverage.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry an open container of
alcoholic beverage onto any public way, public property or public place of
accommodation or amusement, except for licensed premises.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed premise to permit any person to
leave the licensed premises or carry out an open container of alcoholic
beverage onto any public way, public property or public place of accommodation
or amusement.
   (D)   The above prohibitions on open containers may be lifted for times and
at locations as are designated by written consent of the Village President.
(Ord. passed 5-12-1992)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS CRIMINAL CODE.
   Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois Criminal Code, as amended are hereby adopted by the
village. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this
chapter, and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty
provisions under this village code if proceeded hereunder.
(Ord 2011-1011A, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
130.02 shall be deemed guilty of an ordinance violation, and punished by a fine
not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each offense.
(Ord. passed 5-12-1992)
CHAPTER 131:  CURFEW; MINORS
Section
   
131.01   Curfew
§ 131.01  CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person less than 17 years of age to be
present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, highway, or
other public place or way at the following times:
      (1)   For persons less than 13 years of age, between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. the following day on any day of the week.
      (2)   For persons at least 13 years of age, but not yet 17 years of age:
         (a)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. on the following day.
         (b)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Saturday and Sunday.
   (B)   It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that the child
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, legal guardian, custodian,
sibling, stepbrother, or stepsister at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult at least 21 years of age approved by the
child’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Employment which the laws of this state authorize a person less
than 17 years of age to perform;
         (b)   A school recreational activity;
         (c)   A religious event;
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
Article 1, Sections 3, 4, and 5 of the Constitution of the State of Illinois,
or both;
         (f)   An activity conducted by a non-profit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the
supervision of one or more adult.
A citation for violation of division (A) of this section may be issued by a
Police Officer only if he or she reasonably believes that a violation has
occurred and none of the defenses enumerated in division (B) apply.
   (C)   It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian, custodian, or other
person to knowingly permit a person in his custody or control to violate
provisions of division (A) of this section.  It shall be a rebuttable
presumption that a person has violated this section if someone under 17 years
of age of whom such person has custody or control is present upon any public
assembly, building, business, street or highway, or other public place or
public way in violation of division (A) of this section, and none of the
defenses enumerated in division (B) hereof apply.
   (D)   Any person convicted of a violation of division (C) of this section
shall be fined $50 for the first violation in any 12-month period; $75 for a
second violation in any 12-month period; and $200 for a third or subsequent
violation in any 12-month period.
CHAPTER 132:  WEAPONS/RECREATION
Section
   
132.01   Slingshots, air rifles, BB guns and the like
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01  SLINGSHOTS, AIR RIFLES, BB GUNS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, within the village to shoot,
throw, cast or project, by means of any spring-gun, BB gun, slingshot,
catapult, air gun, air rifle, air revolver or other device any BB, pellet,
ball, bullet or other missile or projectile, where any person or property is in
danger of being struck or in any way injured thereby.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to shoot,
throw, cast or project, by means of any spring-gun, BB gun, slingshot,
catapult, air gun, air rifle, air revolver or other device any BB, pellet,
ball, bullet or other missile or projectile, except in the presence and under
the control of another person age 18 years or older.
(Ord. passed 7-11-1996)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of §
132.01 shall be $50 per offense.
(Ord. passed 7-11-1996)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   TRAILERS AND TRAILER CAMPS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150:  TRAILERS AND TRAILER CAMPS
Section
   
150.01   Definitions
   
150.02   Licensing provisions
   
150.03   Required use of trailer camps
   
150.04   Location
   
150.05   Site requirements
   
150.06   Sanitation requirements
   
150.07   Fire protection
   
150.08   Register kept
   
150.09   Removal of wheels
   
150.10   Unoccupied trailers
   
150.11   Office use
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA UNIT.  Ground space or a plot of ground set aside for the accommodation
of one house-car trailer and towing units.
   BUILDING.  Includes the word STRUCTURE.
   HOUSE-CAR TRAILER.  Any vehicle or structure used for residence purposes, or
intended for use or so designed and constructed that it will be primarily
suitable for occupancy thereof as sleeping or living quarters for one or more
persons, or the conduct of any business, profession, occupation or trade, and
so designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels, propelled or drawn by its
own or other motive power; provided, however, that this definition shall not
apply to any vehicle lawfully operated on fixed rails or tracks or those
vehicles legally designated as “common carriers”.
   PARKING LOT.  Any plot of ground used for temporary storage of automobiles.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   SHALL.  Mandatory and not directory.
   STREET.  Any recognized thoroughfare in the village.
   TOWING UNIT.  Any vehicle furnishing tractive effort or motive power for a
house-car trailer.
   TRAILER CAMP.  Any site, lot, parcel of tract or land where one or more
house-car trailers are invited or allowed to be located and shall include all
buildings or other structures thereon for use as part of the equipment,
regardless of whether or not a charge is made for that location and use.
(1986 Code, § 8-3-1)
§ 150.02  LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to establish,
maintain or operate within the corporate limits of the village any trailer
camp, unless the person first secures and properly possesses a license therefor
as herein provided.
   (B)   Application for license. Any person desiring to establish or maintain
a trailer camp shall file with the Village Clerk written plans setting forth:
      (1)   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants; or names
and addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership; or the names
and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation; and the
present or last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application;
      (2)   The location and legal description of the tract of land upon which
it is proposed to operate and maintain a trailer camp;
      (3)   The proposed and existing facilities in the trailer camp for water
supply, garbage and waste disposal, sewage, fire protection and the proposed
alterations therein and the maintenance thereof; and
      (4)   The proposed method of lighting the structures and land upon which
the trailer park is to be located. An affidavit of the applicant as to the
trust of the matters contained in the application shall be attached thereto.
   (C)   Issuance of license. The Village Clerk shall issue a license for the
operation of a trailer camp upon a showing that all requirements of this
chapter are complied with and upon payment of the proper fee as hereinafter
provided.
   (D)   License fees. Each application for an operating license shall be
accompanied by a license fee as follows:
 
Trailer Camp Capacity Fee
10 trailers or less   $100
11 to 20 trailers     $200
21 trailers or more   $200, plus $6 per area unit in excess of 20
 
   (E)   Term of license. Each license shall expire at the end of the fiscal
year in which issued, but in the event a license is issued more than a month
after the beginning of any fiscal year, the fee to be paid shall be reduced in
proportion to the full calendar months which have expired in that fiscal year.
   (F)   License to be posted. The license required by this section shall be
conspicuously posted on the premises of the trailer camp at all times.
   (G)   Renewal of license. Before any license shall be renewed, the premises
shall be inspected to determine whether full compliance with this chapter has
taken place.
   (H)   Revocation of license. At any time a trailer camp is found to be
violating the provisions of this chapter, the licensee of the trailer camp
shall be notified of the condition. If the violation is not corrected within
reasonable time after notification, the license of the trailer camp may be
revoked by the Village Board of Trustees.
(1986 Code, § 8-3-2-1)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03  REQUIRED USE OF TRAILER CAMPS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, park, store or maintain a
house-car trailer in the village outside of a trailer camp which is duly
licensed hereunder, except as herein specifically permitted.
(1986 Code, § 8-3-2-2)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04  LOCATION.
   Any person seeking to establish a trailer camp within the municipality shall
do so in the manner herein prescribed and at a location where each boundary of
the trailer camp will be at least 200 feet away from any permanent residential
building, public park, public building, hospital or school located outside the
trailer camp unless the persons owning property within the 200 feet area
consent in writing to the establishment of the trailer camp.
(1986 Code, § 8-3-2-3)
§ 150.05  SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   Requirements for all trailer campsites shall be as follows.
   (A)   Area. The site on which each house-car trailer shall be accommodated
shall have a minimum area of 1,000 square feet, clearly defined by appropriate
markers so that its boundary lines can be easily seen and determined and the
area unit shall be so graded and maintained as to provide adequate and proper
drainage.
   (B)   Location of trailer within area unit.
      (1)   Each house-car trailer shall be parked within one area unit; and
      (2)   No house-car trailer, including all accessory equipment or
facilities, except one towing unit and an ornamental boundary fence of not more
than three feet in height, shall be permitted to park closer than five feet to
any of the boundary lines of its area unit, nor shall it be so parked that it
is closer than ten feet to any other house-car trailer or any building, awning
or shed located in the camp.
   (C)   Arrangement of area units, driveway requirements. All area units shall
be systematically arranged and shall, along one side, abut upon a continuous
driveway of not less than 24 feet in width, which shall have at all times not
less than 14 feet of unobstructed access of ingress and egress to a public
street, alley or highway. All driveways shall be graded and surfaced with
cinders, gravel, crushed rock or other suitable material as to afford year-
round travel, shall be well marked in the daytime and lighted at night with 25-
watt lamps at intervals of 100 feet, located approximately 15 feet from the
ground.
   (D)   Storm water drainage. Trailer campsites shall be well drained and so
located that drainage of the park area will not endanger any water supply, be
free from any nuisance and health hazards and shall present a pleasing well-
kept appearance.
   (E)   Parking towing units. All towing units for house-car trailers within
the camp shall be parked either entirely within the area unit or parked
parallel along the side of the drive and partly within the area unit. All the
parking shall be done in a manner so as to provide the aforesaid 14-foot
unobstructed driveway passage.
(1986 Code, § 8-3-2-4)
§ 150.06  SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The following sanitary requirements shall be followed.
   (A)   Water supply and fixtures.
      (1)   An adequate supply of water of safe, sanitary quality approved by
the Department of Public Health shall be furnished at each trailer camp.
      (2)   Water shall be supplied from faucets or other approved type
drinking fountains only. Faucets or drinking fountains shall not be further in
distance than 80 feet from any area unit. No common drinking cups shall be
permitted.
   (B)   Plumbing and waste disposal. Each trailer camp shall provide toilets,
showers, baths, slop sinks and garbage containers under the following
conditions.
      (1)   Toilet facilities.
         (a)   One toilet of the flush type shall be provided for each sex for
every ten units or fraction thereof; provided, that one-fourth of the required
toilets for men may be substituted with urinals of the water flush type.
         (b)   Entrances and windows to all toilet facilities shall be
screened, fly-tight and provided with sufficient lights to provide ample
illumination at night.
         (c)   No trailer unit shall be further than 250 feet from the toilet.
         (d)   The use of any toilet in a house-car trailer shall be forbidden
while the house-car trailer is located within the village limits except when a
toilet installation as authorized by the state regulations for the sanitary
control of tourist and trailer camps, has been approved in writing by the
County Department of Public Health.
      (2)   Showers and wash basins. A shower shall be provided for each sex
for every ten units or fraction thereof; provided, that tubs may be substituted
for one-tenth of the required number of showers. One washbasin shall be
provided for each sex for each ten units or fraction thereof. The showers or
bathtubs and washbasins shall be of a material as shall permit satisfactory
cleaning. The floors of each building shall be of concrete or other non-porous
material and light for the buildings shall be such as to provide ample
illumination at night.
      (3)   Slop sinks. Slop sinks shall be provided with running water for
every five units or fraction thereof. No sink located within a house-car
trailer shall be used unless it discharges in a manner approved by the County
Department of Public Health.
      (4)   Wastewater and sewage disposal. All wastewater and sewage from
toilets, showers, bathtubs, washbasins, slop sinks and other plumbing fixtures
in the trailer camp shall be carried by means of appropriate drains and
disposed of in a manner approved by the County Department of Public Health, and
State Department of Public Health.
      (5)   Garbage storage and disposal. A sufficient number of adequate fly-
proof and water-tight containers in accordance with the rules and regulations
adopted by the Department of Public Health shall be supplied for the storage of
garbage. Garbage and rubbish shall be disposed of in a manner which creates
neither a nuisance nor a menace to health and which is approved by the
Department of Public Health.
      (6)   Laundry rooms. When laundering is permitted, a separate room shall
be provided and it shall be constructed and equipped so that it can be
maintained and operated in a clean, sanitary manner.
      (7)   Hand-washing facilities. Adequate and sanitary hand-washing
facilities shall be provided at each camp.
      (8)   Cross-connections. All plumbing shall be installed so as to prevent
contamination of the water supply through interconnections and back-siphonage.
   (C)   Exclusions. House-car trailers with sanitary facilities properly
installed, connected and operated in accordance with the state regulations
shall be excluded, as to its sanitary facilities, from the number of house-car
trailers within the camp when inspection and determination is being made for
number of required sanitary facilities to be furnished by the operator of the
entire camp.
(1986 Code, § 8-3-2-5)
§ 150.07  FIRE PROTECTION.
   Every trailer camp shall be equipped at all times with at least one fire
extinguisher of at least two and one-half gallons’ capacity, of a foam type, in
good working order at all times and adequately protected from freezing for
every ten units, or fraction thereof. The extinguishers shall be located as to
be no further than 100 feet from any area unit.
(1986 Code, § 8-3-2-6)
§ 150.08  REGISTER KEPT.
   The camp owner or his or her agent shall keep a register and record all
house-car trailers and occupants which occupy space at his or her camp. The
register shall specify dates and times of arrival, the name of the owner of the
house-car trailer and towing unit and the state in which the house-car trailer
and towing unit are registered and the numbers of the vehicle licenses.
(1986 Code, § 8-3-2-7)
§ 150.09  REMOVAL OF WHEELS.
   Removal of wheels or other transporting device, except the temporary
detachment of a towing unit, from any house-car trailer shall not be construed
as converting the same into a permanent structure.
(1986 Code, § 8-3-3)
§ 150.10  UNOCCUPIED TRAILERS.
   (A)   It shall be permissible herein for a bona fide guest of the
householder to park a house-car trailer in the rear yard of any dwelling house
for a period of time not to exceed 30 days in any one calendar year; provided,
however, the house trailer may be used only for sleeping purposes during the
30-day period.
   (B)   A house-car trailer may be parked or stored in the village regardless
of the other provisions hereof; provided, that it shall not be used for living
or sleeping purposes during the time as it is so stored or parked and,
providing moreover, that it shall not be a nuisance and does not constitute a
fire hazard, and if the trailer is parked within a trailer camp, it shall be
parked in the same location as occupied house-car trailers.
(1986 Code, § 8-3-4)
§ 150.11  OFFICE USE.
   No house-car trailer shall be maintained in the village as a permanent
office. The office use shall be allowed as is compatible with the demonstration
and sale of articles or services as may be readily transported in a house-car
trailer on a legally located parking lot within the business or industrial area
of the village for a period of time not to exceed seven days, provided the
house-car trailer is not used for sleeping or living purposes during that time.
(1986 Code, § 8-3-5)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor. Each day that the violation continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. The penalty may be enforced upon either or both
the persons occupying the house-car trailer or the persons operating or
maintaining the trailer camp, except for the requirements that are only to be
complied with by the operator, who shall be solely responsible therefor.
Violators shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each
violation, and each day is a separate offense.
(1986 Code, § 8-3-6)  (Ord. passed 7-10-1979)
CHAPTER 151:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Fire limits
   
151.02   Fireplaces and chimneys
   
151.03   Unsightly fences and walls
   
151.04   Electrical Code
   
151.05   International Property Maintenance Code
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   Fire limits established. The territory embraced within the following
limits shall hereafter be known as the fire limits of the village: the portion
of the village bounded on the north by Monroe Street, on the south by Fillmore
Street, on the east: by Arthur Street and on the west by Washington Street.
   (B)   Building construction. No building or shed built of wood shall be
erected within the fire limits by any person or persons, unless permission
shall first be granted by the Village Board for the erection thereof.
(1986 Code, § 8-1-1)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02  FIREPLACES AND CHIMNEYS.
   No person shall construct, build or maintain any defective or dangerous
chimney, fireplace, stovepipe, flue, oven, boiler or other apparatus from which
fire is likely to escape to the injury of others.
(1986 Code, § 8-1-2)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03  UNSIGHTLY FENCES AND WALLS.
   No person shall, through revenge, hatred or ill-will, build any party wall
or partition fence or other unsightly obstruction between his or her house and
that of his or her neighbor in a manner so as to exclude light, air or
ventilation, or obstruct his or her neighbor’s view in an unnecessary manner.
(1986 Code, § 8-1-3)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04  ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ELECTRICAL SERVICE.  The use of electric wire for the purpose of either
light, heat or power and pertains to the electrical service wiring for all
residences, public and business houses of the village.
(1986 Code, § 8-2-1)
   (B)   Rules adopted. All of the electrical service work that may be done in
the village must be done in a manner so as to live up to and comply with the
requirements of the National Board of Fire Underwriters of America’s latest
“Code”, Standard-Rules.
(1986 Code, § 8-2-2)
   (C)   Amendments to rules. The following clauses shall be added and
considered a part of, and in conjunction with the above rules. In all cases
where the Code is mentioned hereinafter, the above Underwriter’s Rules will
apply and govern.
      (1)   All porcelain knobs other than the solid dead-ending knobs, shall
be what are known as number 55.5 U.S. square glazed porcelain knobs.
      (2)   For all residence work, what are termed as feeders, or that portion
of the service leading from the outer line wire to the meter and entrance
switch, shall be incased in rigid iron conduit with proper fittings at each
terminal with no bend in conduit to exceed three and one-half inches as a
radius on the inner edge of the bond. Proper fittings to be used to avoid
making injurious bend in the conduit, wire of the proper braid and conductivity
to be used throughout as per Code.
      (3)   Meters, entrance switches, branch blocks and cabinets shall be
located on the walls of the outer veranda so that meterman may at all times
have ready and convenient access to the instrument. Any required exception to
this rule must be approved by the Board or its advisors.
      (4)   In the fire limits of the village, and in fact, all public
buildings, stores or any other buildings used for public gatherings or the
transaction of retail business, shall be wired in what is known as a continuous
rigid iron conduit system, in which the requirements of the Code shall at all
times govern.
      (5)   All connections from appliances of any description shall be run
from separate circuits other than the lighting circuits.
      (6)   Feeder lines to large appliances such as electric ranges, furnaces
and the like, shall have their own separate, main service, switch and
protecting fuses.
      (7)   In order to obviate undue trouble from the lack of competent
workmen and also to safeguard the interests of the village in the loss of
current due to inferior work and material, it is required that any electrical
contractor doing inside wiring in the village shall first file a satisfactory
bond with the Village Board and must, before receiving same, satisfy the Board
or its advisor as to the ability and necessary pecuniary resources to be able
to maintain and back this work and the performance of same or any other work
that he may have the occasion to perform in the village.
         (a)   In order to insure the licenses getting into responsible hands,
a bond of $500 shall be filed with the Board before the license shall be
forthcoming.
         (b)   The following contract shall be and constitute the required
bond, and be considered a part of this section.
   Know all men by these presents, that we ________________, of the County of
___________ and State of _________________ are held and firmly bound unto the
Village of Hanover and its citizens of the State of Illinois in the penal sum
of five hundred dollars ($500.00) lawful money, of the United States, for the
payment of which sum we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors and
administrators, and assigns, jointly and severally, firmly by these presents.
Sealed with our seals and dated _______ day of __________ A.D. ___________.
   The condition of the above obligation is such, that, whereas, the above
____________________ have entered into an agreement with the said Village of
Hanover, bearing date of __________ day of ______________, A.D. _________ for
furnishing and installing all material for each of the several electric house
systems and making same to conform to the requirements of all ordinances passed
by the Village Board. Furthermore, _________________________ agree to make any
changes in the system that may be required by the Board or its advisor in so
long as the required change is in accordance with the ordinance. Now, if the
said _______________________ shall in all respects well and truly keep and
perform the said contract on _______________ part, in accordance with the terms
thereof and the specifications and ordinances herein referred to and further
shall indemnify, keep and save harmless the Village of Hanover and its citizens
against all liabilities, judgments, costs, damages and expenses which may in
any way arise and come against the village or its citizens in consequence of
granting the licenses or any work that the contractor may have done in an
unsatisfactory manner.
      (8)   The bond filed with the Village Board by each prospective
contractor shall be in full force and effect until the final house job has been
duly inspected and passed, in which case his or her license shall automatically
be void.
      (9)   So that the village may safeguard its own interests and those of
its citizens as well, an inspector shall be appointed by the Village Board to
inspect all inside electrical work, whose decision shall be final so long as
the Code and this chapter are faithfully carried out in a workmanship-like
manner.
      (10)   Each house or building system shall be open to complete view of
the inspector and be passed by him or her with a written certificate
designating that the job has been duly inspected and found to be satisfactory.
(1986 Code, § 8-2-3)
§ 151.05  INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The village adopts the 2012 International Property Maintenance Code. Any
other building codes or property maintenance codes in effect are hereby
repealed by the adoption of the 2012 International Property Maintenance Code.
(Motion passed 1-30-2012)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever shall violate the provisions of §
151.01 shall, on conviction, be fined not less than $25, nor more than $200.
(1986 Code, § 8-1-1)
   (C)   All offenders against §
151.02 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $50.
(1986 Code, § 8-1-2)
   (D)   Persons offending under §
151.03 shall be fined not exceeding $100.
(1986 Code, § 8-1-3)
CHAPTER 152:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Base flood elevation
   
152.04   Duties of the Zoning Board and Administrator
   
152.05   Development permit
   
152.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
152.07   Protecting buildings
   
152.08   Subdivision requirements
   
152.09   Public health and other standards
   
152.10   Carrying capacity and notification
   
152.11   Variances
   
152.12   Disclaimer of liability
   
152.13   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01  PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this
village by the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-1, 11-12-12,
11-30-2, 11-30-8 and 11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 2010-1056, passed 8-31-2010)
§ 152.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The BASE
FLOOD elevation at any location is as defined in §
152.03.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).  The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT.  The portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING.  A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180
days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.  Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these CRITICAL FACILITIES can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk. Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood
protection should be required include: emergency services facilities (such as
fire and police stations), schools, hospitals retirement homes and senior care
facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone
switching stations or electrical transformers) and hazardous material storage
facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other alterations of the ground surface; and
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing and similar
practices that do not involve filing, grading or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA.  Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE.  The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP.  A map prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area
(SFHA) within a community. This MAP includes insurance rate zones and may or
may not depict floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.  An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).  These two terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the village, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village, or that may be annexed into the
village, that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The floodplains of
the village are generally identified as such on panel number(s) 170902 0250 B,
of the countywide flood insurance rate map of the county prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated September 17, 2010. FLOODPLAIN
also includes those areas of known flooding as identified by the community. The
FLOODPLAINS of those parts of unincorporated county that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed into the
village are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map
prepared for the county by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated
September 17, 2010.
   FLOOD-PROOFING.  Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE.  A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry flood proofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE).  The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY.  The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAY for the floodplains of the Apple River shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state or other sources.
   FREEBOARD.  An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the State Historic Preservation Agency; and/or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR.  Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR. Provided that the
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
152.07.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by
a community and includes any subsequent improvements of the structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP.  National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER.  A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size; or
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS.  Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the market
value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA.  See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual START OF
CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE.  See BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes REPETITIVE
LOSS (see definition).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a
structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this chapter in which the
cumulative percentage of improvements:
         (a)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive
loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
      (3)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in VIOLATION until a time as the
documentation is provided.
(Ord. 2010-1056, passed 8-31-2010)
§ 152.03  BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best available
base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best
available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed
to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and
IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (A)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the Apple River shall
be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the countywide flood
insurance study of the county prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and dated September 17, 2010.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an “AH
Zone” or AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the county
wide flood insurance rate map of the county.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an “A Zone” on the countywide flood insurance rate map of the
county shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or
other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be
financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   (D)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated county that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
village or that may be annexed into the village, shall be as delineated on the
100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance study of the county prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated September 17, 2010.
(Ord. 2010-1056, passed 8-31-2010)
§ 152.04  DUTIES OF THE ZONING BOARD AND ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Village Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the village meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the Zoning Administrator shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
152.05;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
152.06;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
152.07 are met and maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or flood-proof certificate;
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
152.08;
      (5)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the Public
Health standards of §
152.09;
      (6)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
152.11 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
      (7)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty
actions outlined in §
152.99 as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (8)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
      (9)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
      (10)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (11)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
      (12)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
      (13)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter
and make substantial damage determinations for structures within the
floodplain; and
      (14)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/
OWR and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map.
(Ord. 2010-1056, passed 8-31-2010)
§ 152.05  DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Zoning Administrator. The Village Zoning
Administrator shall not issue a development permit if the proposed development
does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
152.07; and
      (5)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the Zoning
Administrator shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation.
      (1)   Any development located on land that can be shown by the base flood
elevation.
      (2)   Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled
after the date of the site’s first flood insurance rate map is not in the
floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the
base flood elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current
flood insurance rate map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first flood insurance
rate map identification.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for obtaining from
the applicant copies of all other federal, state and local permits, approvals
or permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity.
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator shall not issue a permit unless all other
federal, state and local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 2010-1056, passed 8-31-2010)
§ 152.06  PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map,
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall be
allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated development
will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to public
health and safety. The following specific development activities shall be
considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
following conditions of the State Department of Natural Resources, Office of
Water Resources Statewide Permit Number 2:
         (a)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one foot;
         (b)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one-half feet at a point 1,000 feet upstream of
the proposed structure;
         (c)   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in
water surface profile;
         (d)   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging or relocating the existing channel;
         (e)   The design must be certified by a licensed professional engineer
in the state and the designs must meet the conditions of an IDNR/OWR permit;
and
         (f)   The design must be certified by a second licensed professional
engineer.
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit Number 3: the permit is only applicable when deadmen, pier
cells or other similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers.
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit Number 4:
         (a)   The utility line must be constructed above the existing 100-year
flood elevation or attached to an existing bridge;
         (b)   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be
constructed above the low cord elevation of the bridge;
         (c)   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake
or stream;
         (d)   Supporting towers including foundation and poles shall be
designed and located so as to not cause an obstruction of flood flows by
trapping debris;
         (e)   All disturbed areas shall be returned to pre-construction grades
and re-vegetated; and
         (f)   All Illinois Commerce Commission, National Electrical Safety
Code and federal requirements must be met.
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 5:
         (a)   The boat dock must not extend more than 50 feet into a waterway
and no more than one quarter of the width of the waterway and shall not extend
beyond the navigational limit established by the IDNR and Corps of Engineers;
         (b)   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet;
         (c)   For L-shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion
parallel to the shoreline must not exceed 50% of the landowner’s shoreline
frontage nor 50 feet;
         (d)   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of
property lines into the waterway or come within ten feet of the projected
property line;
         (e)   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices;
         (f)   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment
during times of high wind or water;
         (g)   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units
unless they are filled with floatation foam. Containers which previously stored
pesticides, herbicides or any other toxic chemicals are not permissible;
         (h)   This permit does not authorize any other related construction
activity such as shore protection or fill;
         (i)   Non-floating boat docks must be constructed in a manner which
will minimize obstruction to flow; and
         (j)   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the dock as determined by the IDNR or Corp of Engineers.
      (5)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 6: the following activities (not involving
fill or positive change in grade) are covered by this permit:
         (a)   The construction of underground utility lines, wells or septic
tanks not crossing a lake or stream;
         (b)   The construction of light poles, sign posts and similar
structures;
         (c)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios and similar structures;
         (d)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions and carports;
         (e)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding 70
square feet in size, nor ten square feet in any dimension. Only one such
building on a property is authorized by this statewide permit; and
         (f)   The raising of existing buildings, provided no changes are made
to the outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is not
involved.
      (6)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 7:
         (a)   Any outfall structure, including any headwall or end-section,
shall not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope or adjacent bank protection;
         (b)   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour
velocity of the channel soil, unless channel erosion would be prevented by the
use of riprap or other design measures;
         (c)   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream
until the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation; and
         (d)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 8:
         (a)   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of
the river, lake or stream and, unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet of cover shall be provided. The
river, lake or stream bed shall be returned to its original condition;
         (b)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction;
         (c)   Any utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution, as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act
5), shall be provided with shut-off valves on each side of the body of water to
be crossed; and
         (d)   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the
crossing, the permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten days prior to
the blasting date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 9:
         (a)   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas:
stone and concrete riprap, steel sheet piling, cellular blocks, fabric-formed
concrete, gabion baskets, rock and wire mattresses, sand/cement filled bags,
geotechnical fabric materials, natural vegetation and treated timber. Urban
areas are defined as: areas of the state where residential, commercial or
industrial development currently exists or, based on land use plans or
controls, is expected to occur within ten years. (The Department should be
consulted if there is a question of whether or not an area is considered
urban);
         (b)   In addition to the materials listed in division (A)(8)(a) above,
other materials (e.g., tire revetments) may be utilized in rural areas provided
all other conditions of this permit are met;
         (c)   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto
bodies, garbage or debris, scrap lumber, metal refuse, roofing materials,
asphalt or other bituminous materials, or any material which would cause water
pollution as defined by the Environmental Protections Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act
5);
         (d)   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, either singularly or cumulatively, 1,000 feet;
         (e)   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to
resist anticipated forces of current and wave action;
         (f)   Materials shall be placed in a way which would not cause erosion
or the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the
project;
         (g)   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of
the bank;
         (h)   Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full-width
and cross-sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site. For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along the bank, toe
of the bank or other similar applications, in no case shall the cross-sectional
area of the natural channel be reduced by more than 10% nor the volume of
material placed exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot of the stream bank or
shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a flatter slope and to lessen the
quantity of material required;
         (i)   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials such as
reinforcing rods shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the construction area;
         (j)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction;
         (k)   In the case of seawalls and gabion structures on lakes, the
structure shall be constructed at or landward of the water line as determined
by the normal pool elevation, unless:
            1.   It is constructed in alignment with an existing seawall(s) or
gabion structure(s), and
            2.   The volume of material placed, including the structure, would
not exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot.
         (l)   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, state and
federal laws and rules, shall not be placed in a floodway.
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 10.
         (a)   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with
the requirements of the local floodplain ordinance.
         (b)   The principle structure to which the project is being added must
have been in existence on the effective date of this permit (July 25, 1988).
         (c)   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed 500 square
feet in size and must not deflect flood waters onto another property.
         (d)   Must not involve the placement of any fill material.
         (e)   No construction shall be undertaken in, or within 50 feet of the
bank of the stream channel.
         (f)   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions.
         (g)   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing
structure shall be authorized by this permit; plans for any subsequent addition
must be submitted to IDNR/OWR for review.
         (h)   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 11.
         (a)   The affected length of the stream shall not either singularly or
cumulatively exceed 1,000 feet.
         (b)   The project shall not include the construction of any new
channel; all work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing
flows in the natural stream channel.
         (c)   The cross-sectional area of the dredged channel shall conform to
that of the natural channel upstream and down stream of the site.
         (d)   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland
and shall be either:
            1.   Removed from the floodway;
            2.   Used to stabilize an existing bank provided no materials would
be placed higher than the existing top of bank and provided the cross-sectional
area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than 10%, nor the
volume of material placed exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot of streambank;
            3.   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain area
such that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
            4.   Used to stabilize an existing levee provided the height of the
levee would not be increased nor its alignment changed;
            5.   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by the
Department in accordance with the conditions of the approval; or
            6.   Used for beach nourishment, provided the material meets all
applicable water quality standards.
         (e)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise
stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide Permit Number 12:
         (a)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine and document
that the existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood
damage. The documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
            1.   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the backwater
induced by the existing structure; and
            2.   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated
with the existing structure.
         (b)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge widening projects the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge.
         (c)   The project shall not include any appreciable raising of the
approach roads. (This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches
exist at an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood
headwater elevation as determined by a FEMA flood insurance study completed or
approved by IDNR/OWR).
         (d)   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the Department’s Statewide Permit Number 9 (Minor Shoreline, channel and
Streambank Protection Activities) or Statewide Permit Number 11 (Minor
Maintenance Dredging Activities).
         (e)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above conditions.
      (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide Permit Number 13.
         (a)   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required federal, state and local
authorizations.
         (b)   The term “temporary” shall mean not more than one construction
season. All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream
and floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
conditions existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR.
         (c)   The temporary project shall be constructed such that it will not
cause erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles to adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed such that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel banks.
         (d)   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of
any solid embankment or wall such as a dam, roadway, levee or dike across any
channel or floodway.
         (e)   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or
stream channel until a licensed professional engineer determines and documents
that the temporary structure will meet the requirements of Special Condition
Number 3 of this statewide permit. The documentation shall include, at a
minimum, confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the
backwater induced by the temporary structure.
         (f)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above condition.
         (g)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction.
         (h)   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution
as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5).
      (13)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) above may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 2010-1056, passed 8-31-2010)
§ 152.07  PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
152.06, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If substantially improved, the
existing structure and the addition must meet the flood protection standards of
this section;
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage);
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year; and
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
152.02.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material; and
         (e)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace or other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters.
            1.   Designs must either be certified by a licensed professional
engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each wall no more
than one foot above grade with a minimum of two openings.
            2.   The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
below the base flood elevation; and
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice and floating debris.
            1.   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            2.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            3.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space.
            4.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below
the flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of flood waters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade;
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade;
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
at any point;
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove flood
waters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of
time after a flood event;
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; or
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry flood-proofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice;
      (3)   Flood-proofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity; and
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
flood-proofing for the purpose of this division (C).
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with §
152.07(B); and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the State Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code § 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of §
152.07(D), unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck;
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      (5)   The vehicles’ largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet;
      (6)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement out of the floodplain;
      (8)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation;
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model; and
      (10)   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable.
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single family lot and be accessory
to an existing principle structure on the same lot.
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area.
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $10,000 in market value or
replacement cost whichever is greater or less than 500 square feet.
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning.
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 2010-1056, passed 8-31-2010)
§ 152.08  SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   The Village Board shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they
are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §§
152.06 and
152.07.
   (B)   Any proposal for the development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2).
   (C)   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in a manner so as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels.
   (D)   Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 2010-1056, passed 8-31-2010)
§ 152.09  PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
152.06 and
152.07, the following standards apply:
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
the materials are stored in a flood-proofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or flood-proofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
152.07;
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters;
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight; and
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
flood-proofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet above the
level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater. Flood-
proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances
will not be displaced by or released into flood waters. Access routes elevated
to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to all
critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2010-1056, passed 8-31-2010)
§ 152.10  CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the village shall notify adjacent communities in writing
30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of
the watercourse.
(Ord. 2010-1056, passed 8-31-2010)
§ 152.11  VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Village Zoning
Board for a variance.
   (B)   The Zoning Board shall review the applicant’s request for a variance
and shall submit its recommendation to the Village Board.
   (C)   The Village Board may attach conditions to granting of a variance as
it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
      (1)   No variance shall be granted, unless the applicant demonstrates
that all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The development activity cannot be located outside the
floodplain;
         (b)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
         (c)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
         (d)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance;
         (e)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
         (f)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
         (g)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
      (2)   The Zoning Board shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of the building protections standards of §
152.07 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
         (a)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25
per $100 of insurance coverage;
         (b)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
         (c)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
      (3)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
152.07 which are requested in connection with reconstruction, repair or
alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in “Historic
Structures”, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of §§
152.06 and
152.07, subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
(Ord. 2010-1056, passed 8-31-2010)
§ 152.12  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2010-1056, passed 8-31-2010)
§ 152.13  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the
Village Board to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program including: January 18, 1984; however, this chapter does not repeal the
original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program.
Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements,
covenants or deed restrictions.
   (B)   Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2010-1056, passed 8-31-2010)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon due investigation, the Village Zoning Administrator may determine
that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists.
   (C)   The Village Zoning Administrator shall notify the owner in writing of
the violation.
      (1)   If the owner fails after ten days’ notice to correct the violation:
         (a)   The village shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make another order as the
court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter;
         (b)   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than $50 or more than $750 for each offense;
         (c)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
         (d)   The village shall record a notice of violation on the title of
the property.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall inform the owner that the violation
is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (3)   The Village Zoning Administrator is authorized to issue an order
requiring the suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall
be in writing, indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the
action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work
order. The stop-work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      (4)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the Village Zoning Board. Written notice of
the hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
         (b)   The time and place of the hearing.
      (5)   At the hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his or her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
Village Zoning Board shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or
revoked.
      (6)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2010-1056, passed 8-31-2010)
CHAPTER 153:  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   State law applicable
   
153.02   Tentative plat
   
153.03   Survey monuments
   
153.04   Design standards
   
153.05   Required improvements
   
153.06   Final plat
   
153.07   Land development assistance
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01  STATE LAW APPLICABLE.
   All laws of the state pertinent to this subject are made a part of these
regulations as if written at length herein.
(1986 Code, § 9-1-1)
§ 153.02  TENTATIVE PLAT.
   (A)   Submission of plat, required information. Prior to making a
subdivision of any tract or parcel of land within the village limits, or within
one and one-half miles of the existing village limits, there shall be filed
with the Village Clerk a tentative plat, in duplicate. This tentative plat
shall include the following information:
      (1)   Each plat shall be drawn to a scale of 100 feet to an inch on 24-
inch by 36-inch paper. Variations in scale may be made, however, where
necessary for a proper exhibit of a subdivision;
      (2)   The boundary lines of the proposed subdivision, as well as all
section lines and corners affecting the subdivision, together with north point
designation;
      (3)   Any watercourse or other existing features pertinent to a proper
subdivision layout;
      (4)   Contour lines at not greater than a five-foot interval;
      (5)   The widths of existing roads, streets, alleys and easements, along
with their names, which affect the proposed subdivision, as well as existing
lots, building lines, intersecting streets together with the names of adjacent
subdivision, block and lot numbers;
      (6)   Building setback lines with dimensions as established from adjacent
existing conditions or proposed in the subdivision, along with utility and
drainage easements proposed;
      (7)   Adjacent property not subdivided shall be marked “Not Subdivided”,
and the names of the adjacent property owners shall be shown;
      (8)   The name of the proposed subdivision, name of owner or trustee as
owner or name of sponsor or developer, as well as a brief location description
of the proposed subdivision which shall appear as part of the title;
      (9)   All existing or proposed zoning categories;
      (10)   Any restrictions or restrictive covenants made a part of the plat;
and
      (11)   If the land to be subdivided is not within the current village
limits, a proposed pre-annexation agreement shall be submitted.
   (B)   Tentative plat approval.
      (1)   The Village Clerk shall refer the tentative plats to the Village
Engineer, who is hereby designated by the Board of Trustees as the examiner of
plats, who shall examine same for conformity with the provisions of these
regulations. If approved, this notation will be made on each copy of the plat.
      (2)   If not approved, the points of conflict with the regulations will
be noted on each copy of the plat. One copy of the plat will then be returned
to the subdivider and the other shall be retained by the village.
(1986 Code, § 9-1-2)
§ 153.03  SURVEY MONUMENTS.
   Upon approval of the tentative subdivision plat, the land shall be surveyed
and marked in accordance with the statutes of the state pertaining to
subdivisions and as further stated herein:
   (A)   Permanent monuments shall be placed at all block corners, points of
tangency of surveyed lines, lot corners and points where street lines intersect
the exterior lines of the subdivision; and
   (B)   Lot corners shall be marked by no less than five-eighths-inch diameter
iron pins, 30 inches in length. All other points described above shall be
marked with iron pins three-quarter inches in diameter and 36 inches in length.
(1986 Code, § 9-1-3)
§ 153.04  DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The tentative plat will be in accordance with the following design
standards.
   (A)   Lots.
      (1)   Each lot shall front on a road, street or parkway, and shall have
minimum frontage of 60 feet as measured at the building setback line, and where
possible, shall have a minimum depth of 120 feet. In no instance shall any lot
include less than 7,200 square feet areas.
      (2)   Corner lots shall be sufficiently larger than interior lots to
allow maintenance of building lines on both streets.
      (3)   Double frontage lots shall only be permitted where lots abut upon a
major thoroughfare where vehicular access between the lot and the thoroughfare
is prohibited.
   (B)   Building setback. A building setback line shall be established along
all street lines at a minimum distance of 25 feet from the street lines, except
where the same would be greater than existing setback lines on the street, in
which case the setback line shall conform to the existing established setback
line.
   (C)   Streets.
      (1)   Provisions shall be made for direct connections with the principal
streets in adjoining subdivision. Where practicable, streets shall be provided
on section and half-section lines. The streets shall be extended to the
boundaries of the subdivision. New streets creating intersections less than 150
feet from existing intersections shall be avoided.
      (2)   Private roads and streets shall be permitted only when the
subdivider submits sufficient evidence to the village that there can be no
public interest in the private road or street.
   (D)   Street widths.
      (1)   Where conditions warrant, the subdivider shall provide one-half the
width of streets bordering the subdivision.
      (2)   The widths of any streets shall conform to the following.
         (a)   On any existing state aid roads within the village the new lot
or property line adjacent thereto shall be the established right-of-way line;
except, that in no case shall the lot or property line adjacent thereto be
nearer than 40 feet from the center of the road.
         (b)   Wherever new streets or roads are created or dedicated within
the proposed subdivision and which are not the type of roads hereinabove
specified, they shall preferably be located and laid out on or along
established section, quarter-section or one-eighth section lines, and the
streets or roads shall have a minimum width of 60 feet except streets which are
extensions of existing streets, which shall not be narrower than the existing
streets. Where the streets terminate at a dead-end, a turn-around of not less
than 120 feet right-of-way diameter shall be provided at the dead-end and shall
not exceed 500 feet in length from the nearest intersecting street line to the
radius point of the turn-around.
   (E)   Alleys.
      (1)   Where alleys are provided, they shall be not less than 20 feet in
width.
      (2)   Where alleys are not provided, assessments of not less than seven
and one-half feet in width shall be provided on each side of all real lot lines
for poles, wires, conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas, water and heat
mains, but which shall not be used for that purpose until authorized by and
under stipulated regulations of proper authorities having jurisdiction.
   (F)   Blocks.
      (1)   Blocks shall not be of greater length than 800 feet.
      (2)   Whenever possible, the side lines of lots shall be perpendicular to
the street line which forms the front of the lots.
(1986 Code, § 9-1-4)
§ 153.05  REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Plans and specifications.
      (1)   The subdivider shall, at his or her expense, have prepared plans
and specifications and secure all permits necessary to construct all
improvements required under this chapter. Plans and specifications shall be in
accordance with the Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction
prepared and adopted by the Department of Transportation, Division of Highways
for the state, and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois.
      (2)   All plans and specifications shall be submitted to the Village
Clerk who shall refer the documents to the Village Engineer for review and
examination for conformity with the above-referenced specifications and
provisions of this chapter. Any cost incurred for this review shall be borne by
the subdivider.
   (B)   Improvements required. The improvements to be completed shall further
allow the design criteria as listed herewith:
      (1)   Street improvements. The subdivider shall grade, drain and surface
the roadways of all streets shown on his or her plat so as to provide
reasonable access for vehicular traffic to each lot of his or her subdivision.
         (a)   The roadways shall be graded to cross over all drainage ditches
and shall provide all necessary drainage structures and/or culverts as required
to accommodate natural drainage flowage through the subdivision.
         (b)   The center 22 feet or more thereof, and a minimum outside
diameter dimension of 80 feet, of cul-de-sac turn-around driving surface shall
further be surfaced with a minimum of eight inches of compacted aggregate base
course material.
         (c)   The center 22 feet or more thereof and cul-de-sac turn-around
driving surface shall further be surfaced with bituminous surface treatment.
Class A-3 as specified in the Standard Specifications as stated above.
         (d)   The earth roadbed shall be no less than 30 feet in width.
         (e)   Where any existing street is to be extended in the subdivision
which has storm sewer, the said storm sewer shall be extended by the subdivider
and outlet provided as found necessary.
         (f)   The subdivider shall pay the cost of providing and installing a
sewage lift station where the same shall be necessary to serve the proposed
subdivision.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer system. The subdivider shall provide sanitary sewer
mains, services and appurtenances to serve each lot in the subdivision,
including connection to existing sanitary sewer. The sewer shall be planned and
designed in accordance with rules and regulations of the state, and planning
shall include preparation and submittal to the proper state agency for permit
to construct, as required by law.
         (a)   Sanitary sewer mains shall be of adequate size to serve the area
being subdivided, as well as any tributary area which may reasonably be
expected to require sewer service in the future, but, in no case shall the
inside diameter of the sewer main be less than eight inches.
         (b)   Sanitary sewer services shall be of not less than four inches
diameter and shall be installed to the property line of each lot.
         (c)   Manholes shall be provided at all junctions, dead-ends, changes
in direction of flow, changes in grade or changes of pipe size, and at not
greater than 400 feet intervals on straight runs.
         (d)   Materials and methods of construction shall comply with the
sewer use ordinance on file in the office of the Village Clerk.
         (e)   The subdivider shall obtain any permits required by law and
shall submit same together with plans and specifications for the construction
prior to commencement of any work.
      (3)   Water supply.
         (a)   The subdivider shall construct water mains on the public rights-
of-way, private roadways with easements or utility easement within the
subdivision and shall construct the water service leads to each lot line as
determined necessary by the Village Engineer.
         (b)   The size of the water mains and services shall be determined and
approved by the Village Engineer so that future extensions into further
subdivided property adequately furnish water to necessary fire protection
equipment.
         (c)   All fire hydrants necessary for fire protection shall be
furnished and installed by the subdivider as part of the water main
construction within the subdivision at no cost to the village. Only fire
hydrants of the type approved by the village shall be used in this
construction.
         (d)   Fire hydrants shall be located at street intersections and as
otherwise directed by the village or Village Engineer as may be deemed
necessary.
      (4)   Private water and sewer systems. Proposed subdivisions not located
within 1,000 feet of existing water and sewer mains may have private wells and
septic systems; provided, that five-tenths acres shall be the minimum lot size
and County and State Health Department approval is obtained.
   (C)   Improvement construction regulations.
      (1)   Permits required. The subdivider shall obtain any permits required
by law and shall submit same, together with the plans and specifications for
the construction work prior to commencement of any work.
      (2)   Guarantee of improvements. The subdivider shall do all work at his
or her expense, either previous to the final approval of his or her subdivision
plat by the village, or deliver to the village a duplicate signed contract
covering all of the work and an acceptable surety bond guaranteeing the
completion of the work contracted for within one year from the date of the
contract.
      (3)   Supervision and inspections.
         (a)   All public improvements proposed to be made under the provisions
of this chapter shall be constructed under the direct supervision of a licensed
engineer and shall be inspected during construction by the licensed engineer
who shall certify to the village that the construction has been made pursuant
to the plans and specifications, and meets good construction practice.
Additional inspections may be made periodically during the course of
construction by the Village Engineer or a duly authorized representative.
         (b)   In the event there is no direct supervision by a licensed
engineer during the time of construction of the improvements, a television
inspection shall be made of the sanitary sewer at the subdivider’s expense
certifying that the sanitary sewer meets the specifications and requirements of
this chapter.
         (c)   All inspections shall be at the cost of the subdivider. Any
salary or other costs in connection with the supervision and inspection by the
licensed engineer or television inspection shall be paid by the subdivider.
(1986 Code, § 9-1-5)
§ 153.06  FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Submission of plat, required information. After completion of the
layout in accordance with the requirements prescribed in §§
153.03 and
153.04, the subdivider shall submit in duplicate a final plat to the Village
Clerk. This final plat, which shall be in accordance with the tentative plat as
approved, shall show that the requirements for layout have been complied with
either by means of conventional signs on the plat or by notes or legends
thereto attached, and, in addition, shall contain the following data and
information:
      (1)   All plats for record shall be drawn to a scale of 100 feet to one
inch. Variations in scale may be made, however, where necessary for a proper
exhibit of a subdivision;
      (2)   Each plat shall show the date of preparation of map and the north
sign, section and quarter-section lines;
      (3)   Each plat shall include a correct survey of property subdivided,
including legal description, section, township and range; location and widths
of all roads, streets, alleys and other lands to be dedicated to public use.
All streets in the proposed subdivision shall be named, which names shall
conform to those of existing streets and roads unless otherwise permitted by
the village. Offset streets shall not be permitted except where unavoidable.
The line of departure from one street to another shall be shown;
      (4)   All lot lines shall be shown and lots and blocks properly numbered
or lettered. Building lines and easements shall be shown and determined by
measurements;
      (5)   All necessary dimensions, linear and angular, and angles necessary
to properly resurvey shall be shown; linear dimensions to be given in feet and
decimals of a foot;
      (6)   The description and location of all survey monuments placed in the
subdivision shall be shown upon all maps for record;
      (7)   All proper certificates, seals and signatures as required by law
shall be shown on the original map and on appropriately numbered additional
sheets, if necessary;
      (8)   Evidence that all required land improvement work as prescribed in §
153.05 has either been accomplished prior to submission of the plat for final
approval, or has been provided for by an acceptable signed contract and
accompanying surety bond or establishment of an escrow account in an amount
sufficient to complete all of the required improvements. The amount shall be
based upon either actual contract bid price or a bona fide engineer’s estimate;
and
      (9)   A certificate shall be placed upon the final subdivision plat and
signed by the designated examiner of plats. The certificate may read:
   I hereby certify that the plat shown hereon to be known as
___________________________, located in the Village of Hanover, Jo Daviess
County, Illinois, complies with all requirements as set forth in the Title 9,
Chapter 1 of Hanover Village Code.
   Notations as to conditions of construction also be certified by variation of
this certificate.
   Date: _______________
      ______________________________
      Examiner of Plats
   (B)   Supplemental documents. The subdivider shall also supply the village
with the following:
      (1)   Surveyor’s certificate;
      (2)   Owner’s certificate dedicating streets and other public areas;
      (3)   Notary public’s certificate;
      (4)   County Recorder’s certificate; and
      (5)   Easement provisions for public utilities.
   (C)   Payment of taxes and special assessments. The subdivider shall make
all adjustments relative to any and all taxes and special assessments levied
against the property platted by him or her before submitting his or her final
plat for approval. Evidence of the adjustments shall be shown on the plat by a
certificate signed by the Village Clerk. In vacating subdivisions previously
platted, the petitioner shall submit evidence of the payment of all taxes and
special assessments levied against the property in the same manner as is
required for subdividing.
(1986 Code, § 9-1-6)  (Ord. passed 7-10-1979)
§ 153.07  LAND DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   The village shall provide all water and sewer main line pipe in any
new proposed land development when the developer has complied with the
following conditions:
      (1)   The plans for the water and sanitary main line construction have
been approved by the state;
      (2)   A permit for the construction has been issued and is on file with
the Village Clerk; and
      (3)   The Village Board of Trustees, after a detailed presentation of a
land development proposal by the Village Engineer and with his or her
recommendation, has approved the land development proposal for assistance under
this section.
   (B)   It is further provided that any proposed land development submitted
for approval by the Village Board for assistance under this section shall not
exceed 20 lots and 75% of all lots in any land development shall be serviced by
the village water and sanitary sewer mains before any new land development
proposal in the same area may be submitted to the Village Board for approval.
(1986 Code, § 9-1-7)  (Ord. passed 4-11-1972)
Cross-reference:
   Connection permit fees, see §
50.01
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalty for violation of this chapter shall be not less than $25
nor more than $500 for each violation. Each day a violation exists shall be
considered a new violation.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the penalty provision hereinabove set forth, the
village shall have the right to pursue any and all civil remedies available in
law and/or equity.
(1986 Code, § 9-1-8)  (Ord. passed 7-10-1979)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ENTERPRISE ZONE
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I:  ENTERPRISE ZONE
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
–      1-12-1993   Establishes enterprise zone
–      11-20-2000  Amends boundaries, beginning at a point at the east right-
                     of-way of Baileyville Road
 
TABLE II:  ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
 
TABLE III:  CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
–      6-13-1995   Approval of an intergovernmental agreement for mutual aid
                     and assistance in law enforcement
–      11-12-1996  Authorizes and provides for an installment contract, and
                     the assignment thereof
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 1986 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Reference Code Section
ILCS Reference                   Code Section
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01           10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02           10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03           10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04           10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05           10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07           10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08           10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09           10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10           10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11           10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12           10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15           10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16           10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17           10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20           10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24           10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28           10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29           10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2              10.04
Ch. 5, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.   31.39
Ch. 5, Act 175, §§ 1-101 et seq10.02
Ch. 5, Act 315, § 3             31.35
Ch. 5, Act 425                   31.20
Ch. 10, Act 5, § 1-3            31.35
Ch. 10, Act 5, § 9-1.4          31.35
Ch. 10, Act 5, § 9-3            31.35
Ch. 35, Act 105, §§ 1 et seq.  32.03
Ch. 35, Act 115, §§ 1 et seq.  32.01
Ch. 35, Act 120, §§ 3 et seq.  32.02
Ch. 65, Act 5                    10.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2          10.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1          10.99,
                                 152.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1        10.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-2-1        10.17
 
ILCS Reference Code Section
ILCS Reference                  Code Section
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 3-5-1 et seq30.03
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-5-9         31.03
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-8-1         31.04
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1        32.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-5        32.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-6        32.03
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-1        91.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-5-6        91.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-12      152.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-9       91.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-2       152.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-8       152.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31-2       152.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-125-4      50.30
Ch. 225, Act 425, §§ 1 et seq.130.01
Ch. 325, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.  130.01
Ch. 415, Act 5                  152.06
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 1            50.31
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 14.2         50.30
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 14.2(b)      50.33
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 14.2(c)      50.33
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 14.2(d)      50.33
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 14.5         50.33
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 17           50.34
Ch. 415, Act 55, § 1           50.31
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188        10.02
Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 1-1 et seq72.03
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2          152.08
 
REFERENCES TO 1986 CODE
1986 Code 2012 Code
1986 Code 2012 Code
1-3-1     10.02
1-5-1     30.01
1-5-2     30.02
1-5-3     30.03
1-5-4     30.04
1-6-1     31.01
1-6-2     31.02
1-6-3     31.03
1-6-4     31.04
1-6-5     31.05
2-1-1     33.01
2-1-2     33.02
2-1-3     33.03
2-1-4     33.04
2-1-5     33.05
2-1-6     33.06
2-1-7     33.07
2-1-8     33.08
2-1-9     33.09
2-1-10    33.10
2-1-11    33.11
3-1-1     32.01
3-1-3     32.02
3-1-4     32.03
3-2-1     110.01
3-2-2     110.02
3-2-3     110.03
3-2-4     110.04
3-2-6     110.05
3-2-7     110.06
3-2-8     110.07
3-2-9     110.08
3-2-10    110.09
 
1986 Code 2012 Code
1986 Code 2012 Code
3-2-11    110.99
3-3-1     112.01
3-3-2     112.02
3-3-3     112.03
3-3-4     112.04
3-3-5     112.05
3-4-1     111.01,
          111.99
4-1-1     90.03,
          90.99
4-1-2     90.04,
          90.99
4-2-1     90.01,
          90.99
4-2-2     90.02,
          90.99
4-3-1     51.01,
          51.99
4-3-2     51.02,
          51.99
4-3-3     51.03,
          51.99
4-3-4     51.04
4-3-5     51.05,
          51.99
4-4-1     90.20
4-4-2     90.21
4-4-3     90.22
4-4-4     90.23
4-4-5     90.24
4-4-6     90.25
4-4-7     90.26
5-2-1     130.01
6-1-1     Ch. 73, Sch. II
6-1-2     Ch. 73, Sch. III
6-1-3     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
6-1-4     Ch. 73, Sch. V
6-1-5     70.01,
          70.99
6-2-1     71.01,
          71.99
6-2-2     Ch. 74, Sch. I
6-2-3     71.02,
          Ch. 74, Sch. II
7-1-1     93.01,
          93.99
7-1-1-1   93.02
7-1-2     93.03
7-1-3     93.04
7-1-4     93.05
7-1A-1    93.20
7-1A-2    93.21
7-1A-3    93.22
 
1986 Code 2012 Code
1986 Code 2012 Code
7-1A-4    93.23
7-1A-5    93.24
7-1A-6    93.25
7-1A-7    93.99
7-2-1     92.01,
          92.99
7-3-1     50.01
7-3-2     50.02
8-1-1     151.01,
          151.99
8-1-2     151.02,
          151.99
8-1-3     151.03,
          151.99
8-2-1     151.04
8-2-2     151.04
8-2-3     151.04
8-3-1     150.01
8-3-2-1   150.02
8-3-2-2   150.03
8-3-2-3   150.04
8-3-2-4   150.05
8-3-2-5   150.06
8-3-2-6   150.07
8-3-2-7   150.08
8-3-3     150.09
8-3-4     150.10
8-3-5     150.11
8-3-6     150.99
9-1-1     153.01
9-1-2     153.02
9-1-3     153.03
9-1-4     153.04
9-1-5     153.05
9-1-6     153.06
9-1-7     153.07
9-1-8     153.99
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
–      - -         93.06,
                     93.99
–      9-1-1942    Ch. 73, Sch. V
–      5-9-1956    93.99
–      7-1-1958    51.01,
                     51.04
–      3-3-1959    71.99
–      3-3-1959    Ch. 73, Sch. II
–      3-3-1959    Ch. 74, Sch. I
–      3-3-1959    Ch. 74, Sch. II
–      11-7-1961   51.04
–      8-1-1961    32.01
–      12-4-1962   Ch. 74, Sch. II
–      5-11-1971   70.01
–      4-11-1972   153.07
–      4-11-1972   50.01
–      11-13-1973  Ch. 74, Sch. II
–      12-11-1973  90.03
–      2-25-1974   90.03
–      7-9-1974    90.02
–      11-11-1975  50.02
–      12-13-1979  93.01
                     150.99,
–      7-10-1979   153.06,
                     153.99
                     51.01,
–      8-14-1979   51.02,
                     51.05,
                     51.99
–      4-8-1980    92.99
–      1-18-1981   31.01
–      6-13-1989   110.03;
                     110.07
–      7-11-1989   110.03;
                     110.07
–      12-12-1989  110.07
–      10-9-1990   51.03,
                     51.99
–      7-9-1991    50.03
–      5-12-1992   Ch. 74, Sch. IV
–      5-12-1992   130.02,
                     130.99
–      1-12-1993   TSO, Table I
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
Motion     8-8-1995    Ch. 74, Sch. I
–        2-15-1995   50.05
–        2-15-1995   Ch. 74, Sch. I
–        6-13-1995   TSO, Table III
–        7-9-1996    50.04
–        7-11-1996   132.01,
                       132.99
–        11-12-1996  TSO, Table III
                       72.01,
–        8-12-1997   72.02,
                       72.99
–        5-11-1999   Ch. 73, Sch. I
1004       5-11-1999   31.20
1016       11-20-2000  TSO, Table I
1008       1-9-2001    Ch. 74, Sch. III
                       50.15 through
1009       2-13-2001   50.17,
                       50.99
1010       2-13-2001   72.03,
                       72.99
1009       6-12-2001   50.15,
                       50.16
1013       8-14-2001   50.30 through
                       50.34
1014       8-14-2001   90.05,
                       90.99
–        2-28-2002   32.04
1016       11-12-2002  TSO, Table I
1019       11-11-2003  TSO, Table I
                       31.35 through
1022       5-11-2004   31.39,
                       31.99
1023       8-10-2004   TSO, Table I
1025       3-8-2005    TSO, Table I
1027       6-7-2005    TSO, Table II
1028       8-10-2005   TSO, Table II
1029       10-11-2005  TSO, Table I
                       91.01 through
1035       7-10-2007   91.20,
                       91.99
                       152.01 through
2010-1056  8-31-2010   152.13,
                       152.99
2011-1011A 10-11-2011  130.03
Motion     1-30-2012   151.05
                      
 
