VILLAGE CODE
of
HERSCHER, ILLINOIS
1983
Code current through:
Ord. 25-01, passed 1-21-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Village of Herscher, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 25-01, passed 1-21-2025. Ordinances of the
Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 83-1
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE VILLAGE CODE OF HERSCHER, ILLINOIS
BE IT ORDAINED by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Herscher, Illinois, an Illinois Municipal Corporation:
Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the Village
Code of the Village of Herscher, Illinois, prepared by Sterling Codifiers,
Inc., containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together
with the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing
body of the Village, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the
Official Code and Law of the Village as enacted by the President and Board of
Trustees.
Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the
loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the Official Village Code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, three (3) copies
of which shall be maintained in the office of the Village Clerk, certified as
to correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said
office is regularly open.
Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official Village
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said Official Village Code. All ordinances of a
special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises,
vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and
effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the Village
Code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the Official Village
Code.
Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change
or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or to
insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the Village to be
misrepresented thereby.
Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to
the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
Section 6: This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the President and Board
of Trustees.
   INTRODUCED: 11-7-83
   PASSED: 11-7-83
                                          
   President
ATTEST:
/s/ Robert Webber
Village Clerk
RECORDED: 11-7-83
PUBLISHED: 11-17-83
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
Official Village Code   1
Saving Clause   2
Definitions   3
General Penalty   4
Village President And Board Of Trustees   5
Village Officers And Employees   6
State Officials And Employees Ethics Act   7
Investment Policy   8
Tax Rights And Responsibility   9
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Board of Trustees, this Village Code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official Village Code of Herscher. This
Village Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the HERSCHER VILLAGE
CODE, and it is hereby published by authority of the Board of Trustees and
shall be kept up to date as provided in Section 1-1-3 of this Chapter under the
direction of the Village Attorney, acting for said Village Board of Trustees.
Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall be understood
to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate chapter and title
heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the
section itself, when reference is made to this Village Code by title in any
legal document.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Village Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the Village of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section 1-2-1 of
this Code.
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Village Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Village Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Village Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
this Village Code.
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Village Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Village Board. The Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office,of the Clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this Village Code shall make
every effort to maintain this Code in an up to date and efficient manner. He
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the Village
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Village and shall
be returned to the office of the Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
Village Board. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this
Village Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Village
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Village; and all special ordinances.
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be replaced by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as
this Village Code may contain provisions for such matters, in which case this
Village Code shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in
respect to such provisions only.
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to the ordinance in
force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new ordinance, such
provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied to any judgment
announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Village Code.
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Village Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Village Board of
Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clause or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this Village Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this Village Code by words importing the singular
number only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and
females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included;
provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section
of this Village Code which contains any express provision excluding such
construction or where the subject matter or content may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Village has been
changed in the content of this Village Code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the Village's ordinances is not
meant to amend the passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT A person acting on behalf of another.
BOARD Unless otherwise indicated, the Board of Trustees of the Village.
CODE The Municipal Code of Herscher, Illinois, and amendments thereto.
COUNTY The County of Kankakee, State of Illinois.
EMPLOYEES Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the
Village of Herscher".
FEE A sum of money charged by the Village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession or
occupation.
MARSHAL See Police Chief.
MAYOR See Village President.
MISDEMEANOR Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in other
than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
NUISANCE Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the Village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OCCUPANT As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
OFFENSE Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the Village
of Herscher".
OPERATOR The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any land trust
beneficiary, part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee
of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
PERSON Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right of interest
therein.
POLICE CHIEF The Police Chief of the Village police force may be referred to as
"Marshal" or "Police Chief" of the Village.
RETAILER Unless otherwise specifically defined, this term shall be understood
to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
STATE The State of Illinois.
STREET This term shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
VILLAGE The Village of Herscher, County of Kankakee, State of Illinois.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT The President of the Village may be referred to as "Mayor" or
"President" of the Village.
WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING These terms may include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to
write, by his proper mark.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Village Code are intended as
mere catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed
or taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify
or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this code,
where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any offense 1 . (1983 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless
otherwise specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1983 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Meetings Of The Board
1-5-2: Compensation
1-5-3: Appointment Of Officers, Employees And Committees
1-5-1: MEETINGS OF THE BOARD:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Regular scheduled meetings shall be held at seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. on the first and third Mondays of each month hereafter,
except when said first and third Mondays are legal holidays, and under those
conditions the next following day shall be the regularly scheduled meeting of
the board of trustees. (Ord., 5-18-1992, eff. 6-1-1992)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the board of trustees may be
called by the village president or any three (3) of the village trustees by
causing at least six (6) hours' notice to be given to each trustee in writing,
or by leaving such notice at the place of residence of the trustee, or
delivering the same to some member of the family or servant residing within the
family above fifteen (15) years of age. The notice shall, in all cases,
distinctly specify the object and the time of the meeting. (Ord., 4-29-1884;
amd. 1983 Code)
   C.   Meetings Open To Public: All meetings shall be opened to the public
except for: 1) collective negotiating matters between the village and its
employees; 2) meetings for the acquisition of real property as being
considered; 3) meetings where a pending or prospective court proceeding against
or on behalf of the village is being considered; 4) meetings to consider
information regarding appointment, employment or dismissal of an employee or
officer; provided, that no final action may be taken at a closed session. (1983
Code)
1-5-2: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Village President: The village president shall receive the sum of three
thousand dollars ($3,000.00) per year, payable in the same installments as all
other payroll installments of the Village of Herscher effective on May 1, 2025
and continuing until further modified by ordinance. (Ord., 6-6-1994, eff.
retroactive to 5-1-1994)
   B.   Village Trustees: Each village trustee shall receive the sum of one
thousand two hundred dollars ($1,200.00) per year, payable at the end of each
fiscal year. (Ord. 11-1, 2-21-2011)
   C.   Mileage Reimbursement: Each officer and employee of the village shall
be reimbursed for mileage arising from the use of his personal vehicle. The
rate of reimbursement shall be set on a regular basis by the board of trustees.
(1983 Code)
   D.   Village Liquor Commissioner: The village liquor commissioner shall
receive the sum of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per year, payable at the end
of each fiscal year. (Ord., 6-6-1994, eff. retroactive to 5-1-1994; amd. Ord.
24-1, 5-6-2024)
1-5-3: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND COMMITTEES:
   A.   Officers And Employees: The village president, upon, by and with the
advice and consent of the board of trustees, may appoint: 1) a clerk; 2) a
treasurer; 3) a village marshal; 4) a village attorney; 5) a building
inspector; and 6) such other officers as may be necessary to carry into effect
the powers conferred upon the village by law and the ordinances of the village.
(Ord., 10-1-1984)
   B.   Committees: There shall be appointed by the village president, with the
approval of the trustees, the following standing committees consisting of no
less than two (2) members each, all of which the president shall be ex officio
a member, as follows:
      Streets and alleys
      Sanitary and sewer
      Ordinance
      Parks
      Water
      Police
      Finance
      Building
   The village president, with the approval of the trustees, may appoint such
other committees as may be deemed necessary. Committees to which matters are
referred shall report in writing on the request of any member of the board of
trustees. (1983 Code; amd. Ord., 3-18-1991)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Village Clerk; Deputy Village Clerk
1-6-2: Village Treasurer
1-6-3: Police Chief
1-6-4: Building Inspector
1-6-5: Oaths Of Office
1-6-6: Bonds Of Officers
1-6-7: Insurance Reimbursement Allowance (Rep. by Ord., 4-21-2003)
1-6-8: Wage Rates For Public Works Employees
1-6-9: Part Time Police Officer Hiring Standards
1-6-10: Sewer Tap Inspector
1-6-11: Code Enforcement Officer
1-6-12: Part Time Police
1-6-1: VILLAGE CLERK; DEPUTY VILLAGE CLERK:
   A.   Village Clerk:
      1.   Duties: The village clerk shall attend all meetings of the president
and board of trustees to keep a full record of the proceedings in a journal and
shall keep and take charge and custody of all books and papers belonging to the
village, the custody and control of which are not given to other officers. In
addition to these responsibilities, the clerk shall collect fines that have
been imposed by the village. The clerk shall perform such other duties as
provided by law or ordinance of the village.
      2.   Compensation: The village clerk shall be paid on an hourly basis, by
the rate to be determined annually by the village board of trustees. (Ord. 11-
18, 8-15-2011)
   B.   Deputy Village Clerk:
      1.   Creation: There is hereby created the position of deputy village
clerk.
      2.   Appointment: The deputy village clerk shall be appointed by the
village president with the advice and consent of the village board.
      3.   Duties: The deputy village clerk shall assist the village clerk in
the performance of his/her duties subject to direction by the village clerk and
under the oversight of the village president. The deputy village clerk shall
not have the legal authority to execute documents, as granted to the village
clerk by law. The deputy village clerk shall perform such other duties as
provided by law or ordinance of the village.
      4.   Compensation: The deputy village clerk shall be paid on an hourly
basis, at a rate to be determined by the village board. (Ord. 13-9, 9-3-2013)
1-6-2: VILLAGE TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment 1 : The village president, with the advice and consent of
the village board of trustees shall appoint a village treasurer whose term
shall end on the same date as that of the village president so serving as
village president on the date that the appointment is made.
   B.   Vacancy In Office 2 : In the event the village treasurer resigns, he or
she shall continue in office until his or her successor has been chosen and has
qualified to serve in the office. If there is a failure to appoint the village
treasurer or the person appointed fails to qualify to serve as village
treasurer, the person filling the office of village treasurer shall continue in
office until a successor has been chosen and has qualified. If the village
treasurer ceases to perform the duties of or hold the office of village
treasurer by reason of death, permanent physical or mental disability,
conviction of a disqualifying crime, or dismissal from or abandonment of the
office of village treasurer, the village president may appoint a temporary
successor to the office of village treasurer.
   C.   Removal From Office 3 : The village president may remove the village
treasurer from office only in conformance with the procedures set forth in the
Illinois municipal code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   D.   Duties: The village treasurer shall have the following duties:
      1.   The village treasurer shall keep the treasurer's books and accounts
in such manner as the village president and board of trustees may prescribe by
ordinance and such books and accounts shall always be subject to the inspection
of the village president and board of trustees 4 .
      2.   The village treasurer shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debits and credits belonging thereto 5 .
      3.   The village treasurer shall file such reports and accounts and
otherwise carry out the duties and responsibilities of office in compliance
with applicable provisions of the Illinois municipal code, 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 6 .
      4.   In addition to the duties set forth in subsections D1, D2, and D3 of
this section, the village treasurer shall have such other duties as are set
forth in the Illinois municipal code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 7 .
   E.   Compensation: The compensation of the village treasurer shall be set
annually by the board of trustees of the village of Herscher. (Ord. 06-11, 11-
20-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5(a).
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5(c).
3 3. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10.
4 4. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40(a).
5 5. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40(b).
6 6. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40 - 5/3.1-85.
7 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40(a).
1-6-3: POLICE CHIEF:
   A.   Duties: The police chief shall perform such duties as shall be
prescribed by the village president and board of trustees for the preservation
of the public peace and good order.
   B.   Compensation: The police chief shall receive such compensation as
provided in the annual budget and appropriation ordinance of the village. (Ord.
11-31, 8-15-2011)
1-6-4: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Creation: The office of building inspector is hereby created. (1983
Code)
   B.   Appointment: The building inspector shall be appointed by the village
president, with the consent of the village trustees. (Ord. 04-6, 3-1-2004)
   C.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the building inspector to enforce all
ordinances and laws related to the construction, alteration, removal and
demolition of buildings and structures, together with electrical and plumbing
installations therein. He shall keep careful, systematic records of the
business and work of his office, including permit applications, survey plats
and building plot plans, all construction plans and specifications, copies of
permits and certificates issued, affidavits and certificates received, a record
of inspections, copies of notices and orders issued, reports of tests made. The
building inspector is hereby authorized to make inspections to enforce the
provisions of title 8, "Building Regulations", of this code, and for such
purposes is hereby authorized to enter any building, structure or premises. The
building inspector shall retain plans and specifications of houses, and
accessories, except survey plats and building plot plans for a period of two
(2) years. Parts of plans for other buildings which may be useful for future
periodic inspections shall also be retained.
   D.   Vacancy In Office: The chairman of the ordinance committee of the board
of trustees of the village will act as building inspector during periods in
which the appointed building inspector is absent from the village or during
periods when a vacancy in the office of building inspector exists.
   E.   Compensation: The building inspector shall be compensated on a per
inspection basis and the compensation per inspection shall be determined by the
board of trustees. (1983 Code)
1-6-5: OATHS OF OFFICE:
Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices all village
officers, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe the following
oath:
   I do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United
States, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I will
faithfully discharge the duties of the office of (insert office) according to
the best of my ability.
This oath, so subscribed, shall be filed in the office of the village clerk.
(1983 Code)
1-6-6: BONDS OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Generally: Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices,
all village officers, except members of the board of trustees, shall execute
bonds with security to be approved by the board of trustees, as provided by law
or ordinances of the village. These bonds shall be filed with the village
clerk, except the bond of the clerk, which shall be filed with the village
treasurer.
   B.   President: The village president shall, before entering upon the duties
of his office after his appointment or election, execute a bond with security,
to be approved by the board of trustees, payable to the village in the penal
sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). Such bond shall be conditioned upon
his faithful performance of the duties of the office of president, the payment
of all money received by him as village president, and the delivery to his
successor in office of all property, books and effects in his possession
belonging to the municipality or appertaining to the office of village
president, according to law and the ordinances of the village.
   C.   Clerk: The village clerk shall, before entering upon the duties of his
office after his appointment or election, execute a bond with security, to be
approved by the board of trustees, payable to the village in the penal sum of
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). Such bond shall be conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the duties of the office of village clerk, payment of
all money received as village clerk, and the delivery to his successor in
office of all property, books and effects in his possession belonging to the
municipality, or appertaining to the office of village clerk, according to law
and the ordinances of the village.
   D.   Treasurer: The village treasurer shall, before he enters upon the
duties of his office after his appointment, execute and deliver to the village
clerk a bond to be approved by the board of trustees with at least two (2) good
and sufficient securities in a sum that is not less than three (3) times the
latest federal census population or any subsequent census figure used for motor
fuel tax purposes, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of
his office of village treasurer and the payment of and accounting for money
received as treasurer according to law and the ordinances of the village.
   E.   Police Chief: The police chief shall, before entering upon the duties
of his office after his appointment, execute a bond to be approved by the board
of trustees with two (2) or more good and sufficient securities in the sum of
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), conditioned upon the faithful performance of
the duties of chief of police and the payment of all money received by him,
according to law and the ordinances of the village. (1983 Code)
1-6-7: INSURANCE REIMBURSEMENT ALLOWANCE:
(Rep. by Ord., 4-21-2003)
1-6-8: WAGE RATES FOR PUBLIC WORKS EMPLOYEES:
To the extent and as required by "an act regulating wages of laborers,
mechanics and other workers employed in any public works by state, county, city
or any public body or any political subdivision or by any one under contract
for public works", approved June 26, 1941, as amended, the general prevailing
rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and other workers
engaged in construction of public works coming under the jurisdiction of the
village is hereby ascertained to be the same as the prevailing rate of wages
for construction work in Kankakee County areas as determined by the department
of labor of the state of Illinois as of June of the current year, a copy of
that determination is incorporated herein by reference. As required by said
act, any and all revisions of the prevailing rate of wages by the department of
labor of the state of Illinois shall supersede the department's June
determination and apply to any and all public works construction undertaken by
the village. The definition of any terms appearing in the ordinance codified
herein which are also used in the aforesaid act shall be the same as in said
act. (Ord., 7-1-1996)
1-6-9: PART TIME POLICE OFFICER HIRING STANDARDS:
   A.   All police officers, other than those officers who shall be employed on
a full time basis, shall be qualified to enter and successfully complete any
training mandated by the Illinois law enforcement training standards board;
   B.   The aforesaid hiring standard, particularly with respect to part time
police officers employed by the village of Herscher, Kankakee County, Illinois,
shall be submitted to the Illinois law enforcement training standards board, as
required by statute. (Ord. 11-6, 4-18-2011)
1-6-10: SEWER TAP INSPECTOR:
   A.   Creation: The office of sewer tap inspector is hereby created.
   B.   Appointment And Qualifications: The sewer tap inspector shall be an
adult and will be appointed by the village president, with the consent of the
board of trustees.
   C.   Duties: Inspect all sanitary sewer taps and sump pump taps into the
storm sewer made in the village of Herscher. Check for proper connections, type
of pipe used, and location of the tap. If the connection is not correct, have
it corrected and rechecked. Connections must comply with all village
ordinances.
   D.   Compensation: The sewer tap inspector shall be compensated on a per
inspection basis and the compensation per inspection shall be determined by the
village board. (Ord. 02-9, 12-2-2002)
1-6-11: CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
   A.   Creation: The office of code enforcement officer is hereby created.
   B.   Hiring: The code enforcement officer will be hired by the village board
of trustees. (Ord. 11-23, 8-15-2011)
   C.   Duties:
      1.   Enforce compliance with village regulations and ordinances
including, but not limited to, those pertaining to nuisance housing, zoning
codes, building codes, health and safety, animal control ordinances (including,
but not limited to, title 4, chapter 3 of this code), and other matter of
public concern.
      2.   Receive and respond to citizen complaints and reports from other
agencies and departments on alleged violations of the village codes and
ordinances; interview complainant and witnesses; conduct investigations and
provide recommendations for resolution of the violation(s).
      3.   Conduct field investigations; inspect properties for violations;
attempt to make contact at the residence or business in order to resolve
violation; issue and post warning notices, notices of violation, corrective
notices, orders to comply, and related documentation for code violations;
schedule and perform all follow up functions to gain compliance including
letters, inspections, calls, meetings, discussions, and negotiations to ensure
compliance with appropriate codes and ordinances; issue notices of violation as
necessary.
      4.   Prepare evidence in support of legal actions taken by the village;
appear in court as necessary; testify at hearings and in court proceedings as
required.
      5.   Maintain accurate documentation and case files on all
investigations, inspections, enforcement actions, and other job related
activities including accurate and detailed information regarding code
enforcement activity to substantiate violations; and if necessary or useful to
document violations, draw diagrams and illustrations and/or take photographs.
      6.   Prepare written reports, memos, and correspondence related to
enforcement activities.
      7.   Patrol the village to identify and evaluate problem areas and/or
ordinance violations; determine proper methods to resolve violations.
      8.   Attend meetings, as needed and serve as a resource to other village
departments, divisions, the general public, and outside agencies; provide
research and documentation for meetings; interpret and explain municipal codes
and ordinances to members of the general public, homeowners, contractors,
business owners, and other interested groups.
      9.   Locate vacant residences and businesses as necessary; post the
property as necessary; check vacant buildings regularly for transient activity,
graffiti, and other forms of vandalism.
      10.   When needed, assist in researching, drafting, and rewriting village
codes; participate in the development of forms and processes utilized to
address various issues.
      11.   Report to the village president and village board of trustees on
his/her activities as requested, but in any event, not less than monthly.
      12.   Perform related duties as required by the village president, and/or
the board of trustees. (Ord. 13-8, 8-5-2013)
   D.   Compensation: The code enforcement officer shall be compensated on an
hourly salary determined by the village president and village board of
trustees. (Ord. 11-23, 8-15-2011)
1-6-12: PART TIME POLICE:
   A.   Employment: The village of Herscher may employ part time police
officers from time to time as determined by the police chief.
   B.   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full time police officer and such specific duties delineated in the
general orders of the Herscher police department, but the number of hours a
part time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part time
police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full time police
officers. Part time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois police training act 1  and the rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
   C.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      2.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      3.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license or have the
ability to obtain an Illinois driver's license before employment.
      4.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      5.   Undergo a police background investigation, polygraph examination and
physical examination. The physical examination will include a drug screen.
      6.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
      7.   All previous arrests or detentions must be declared to the police
chief and the police committee.
      8.   The police chief will have the discretion to waive certain
examinations if the applicant is currently working with a law enforcement
agency (full time).
   D.   Discipline: Part time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the chief of police.
   Part time officers serve at the discretion of the police chief or his/her
designee. Part time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and
general orders issued by the village of Herscher police department and as
required under state of Illinois law. Discipline will be outlined in the police
department's rules and regulations and will include, but not be limited to,
counseling, written reprimand, suspensions (1 day, 3 days, 15 days and 30 days)
and discharge. (Ord. 12-12, 8-6-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 7
STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
SECTION:
1-7-1: Definitions
1-7-2: Prohibited Political Activities
1-7-3: Gift Ban
1-7-4: Ethics Advisor
1-7-5: Ethics Commission
1-7-6: Penalties
1-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given these
definitions:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
b) relating to collective bargaining, or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this chapter, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed, "compensated
time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises under the
control of the employer and any other time when the officer or employee is
executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the minimum work
time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the election code 3 .
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the village of Herscher whether on a full time
or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the
direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how
the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
EMPLOYER: The village of Herscher.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment, b) service credit towards pension benefits, and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining, or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY:
   A.   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political meeting,
political rally, political demonstration, or other political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer or 2) with
an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer or 2) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord. 04-8,
5-17-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 2. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-7-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village of
Herscher in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment,
or 3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 04-8, 5-17-2004)
1-7-3: GIFT BAN:
   A.   Gift Ban: Except as permitted by this chapter, no officer or employee,
and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as "recipients"), shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any "prohibited source", as defined herein, or which is
otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall
intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this section.
   B.   Exceptions: Subsection A of this section is not applicable to the
following:
      1.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
      2.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
      3.   Any: a) contribution that is lawfully made under the election code
or b) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.
      4.   Educational materials and missions.
      5.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
      6.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
      7.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: a) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; b)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and c) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
      8.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: a) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or b) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
      9.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
      10.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this act, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
      11.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
      12.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other.
   C.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this chapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 04-8, 5-17-2004)
1-7-4: ETHICS ADVISOR:
   A.   The village president, with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees shall designate an ethics advisor for the village of Herscher. The
duties of the ethics advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of the
village of Herscher unless the position has been created as an office by the
village of Herscher.
   B.   The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and employees
of the village of Herscher concerning the interpretation of and compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and state ethics laws. The ethics advisor shall
perform such other duties as may be delegated by the board of trustees. (Ord.
04-8, 5-17-2004)
1-7-5: ETHICS COMMISSION:
   A.   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the ethics
commission of the village of Herscher. The commission shall be comprised of
three (3) members appointed by the village president with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees. No person shall be appointed as a member of
the commission who is related, either by blood or by marriage up to the degree
of first cousin, to any elected officer of the village of Herscher.
   B.   At the first meeting of the commission, the initial appointees shall
draw lots to determine their initial terms. Two (2) commissioners shall serve
two (2) year terms, and the third commissioner shall serve a one year term.
Thereafter, all commissioners shall be appointed to two (2) year terms.
Commissioners may be reappointed to serve subsequent terms.
      At the first meeting of the commission, the commissioners shall choose a
chairperson from their number. Meetings shall be held at the call of the
chairperson or any two (2) commissioners.
      A quorum shall consist of two (2) commissioners, and official action by
the commission shall require the affirmative vote of two (2) members.
   C.   The village president, with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees, may remove a commissioner in case of incompetency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office after service on the commissioner by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of a copy of the written charges against the
commissioner and after providing an opportunity to be heard in person or by
counsel upon not less than ten (10) days' notice. Vacancies shall be filled in
the same manner as original appointments.
   D.   The commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers.
      2.   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with section
1-7-6 of this chapter and refer violations of section
1-7-2 or
1-7-3 of this chapter to the appropriate attorney for prosecution. The
commission shall, however, act only upon the receipt of a written complaint
alleging a violation of this chapter and not upon its own prerogative.
      3.   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the village of Herscher to cooperate with the
commission during the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to
cooperate with requests by the commission shall constitute grounds for
discipline or discharge.
      5.   The powers and duties of the commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this chapter.
   E.   1. Complaints alleging a violation of this chapter shall be filed with
the ethics commission.
      2.   Within three (3) business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three (3) business days after receipt by the commission. The notices to
the respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time,
and place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
      3.   Upon not less than forty eight (48) hours' public notice, the
commission shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the
complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this chapter, to
determine whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by
the complainant, to proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the
extent authorized by the open meetings act. The commission shall issue notice
to the complainant and the respondent of the commission's ruling on the
sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed
within seven (7) business days after receiving the complaint. If the complaint
is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of section
1-7-3 of this chapter and there is a determination of probable cause, then the
commission's notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled
within four (4) weeks after the complaint's receipt. Alternatively, the
commission may elect to notify in writing the attorney designated by the
corporate authorities to prosecute such actions and request that the complaint
be adjudicated judicially. If the complaint is deemed not sufficient to allege
a violation or if there is no determination of probable cause, then the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the parties of the decision to dismiss the complaint, and that notice shall be
made public. If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of
section
1-7-2 of this chapter, then the commission shall notify in writing the attorney
designated by the corporate authorities to prosecute such actions and shall
transmit to the attorney the complaint and all additional documents in the
custody of the commission concerning the alleged violation.
      4.   On the scheduled date and upon at least forty eight (48) hours'
public notice of the meeting, the commission shall conduct a hearing on the
complaint and shall allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and
evidence. The hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the
open meetings act.
      5.   Within thirty (30) days after the date the hearing or any recessed
hearing is concluded, the commission shall either: a) dismiss the complaint or
b) issue a recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator and to the
village president, or impose a fine upon the violator, or both. The particular
findings in the case, any recommendation for discipline, and any fine imposed
shall be a matter of public information.
      6.   If the hearing was closed to the public, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven (7) business
days after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a
fine, or both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine. Within fourteen (14) days after receiving the demand,
the commission shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least
forty eight (48) hours' public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the
opportunity to present testimony and evidence. Within seven (7) days
thereafter, the commission shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the
alleged violator and to the village president or impose a fine upon the
violator, or both.
      7.   If a complaint is filed during the sixty (60) days preceding the
date of any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the commission
shall render its decision as required under subsection E5 of this section
within seven (7) days after the complaint is filed, and during the seven (7)
days preceding that election, the commission shall render such decision before
the date of that election, if possible.
      8.   The commission may fine any person who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-7-3 of this chapter in an amount of not less than one thousand one dollars
($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The commission
may fine any person who knowingly files a frivolous complaint alleging a
violation of this chapter in an amount of not less than one thousand one
dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The
commission may recommend any appropriate discipline up to and including
discharge.
      9.   A complaint alleging the violation of this act must be filed within
one year after the alleged violation. (Ord. 04-8, 5-17-2004)
1-7-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-7-2 of this chapter may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   B.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-7-3 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   C.   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this chapter to the local enforcement authorities, the
state's attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punished by a
term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined
in an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   D.   A violation of section
1-7-2 of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney
for the village of Herscher by filing in the circuit court an information, or
sworn complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and
conform to the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the
establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
   A violation of section
1-7-3 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney for the village of Herscher, or, if an ethics commission has been
created, by the commission through the designated administrative procedure.
   E.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-7-2 or 1-7-3 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 04-
8, 5-17-2004)
CHAPTER 8
INVESTMENT POLICY
SECTION:
1-8-1: Policy
1-8-2: Investment Guidelines
1-8-3: Prudence
1-8-4: Ethics And Conflicts Of Interest
1-8-5: Authorized Broker/Dealers And Financial Institutions
1-8-6: Authorized And Suitable Investments
1-8-7: Investment Restrictions
1-8-8: Collateralization
1-8-9: Diversification
1-8-10: Safekeeping And Custody
1-8-11: Internal Controls
1-8-12: Limitation Of Liability
1-8-13: Reporting
1-8-14: Delegation Of Authority
1-8-15: Reservation Of Rights
1-8-1: POLICY:
Under this chapter, the village of Herscher investment policy, it is the policy
of the village to invest all funds under the village's control in a manner
which will provide the highest investment return using authorized instruments,
with maximum investment security, while meeting the village's daily cash flow
demands and conforming to all state statutes governing the investment of public
funds.
This policy shall apply to all investments entered into on or after the
effective date of this policy. Until the expiration of investments made prior
to the effective date of this policy, such investments shall continue to be
governed by the policies in effect at the time such investments were made.
In the event of any amendment to the state statutes governing the investment of
public funds, or of changes in the financial markets, such that the village's
current investments under this policy no longer meet the guidelines set forth
herein, appropriate action shall be taken promptly by the village's investment
advisor(s). (Ord. 99-7, 12-20-1999)
1-8-2: INVESTMENT GUIDELINES:
The primary objective in the investment of village funds is to ensure the
safety of principal, while managing liquidity to pay the financial obligations
of the village, and providing the highest investment return using authorized
instruments.
   A.   Safety: The safety of principal is the foremost objective of the
investment program. Village investments shall be undertaken in a manner which
seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the portfolio. To attain this
objective, diversification, as defined in section
1-8-9 of this chapter, is required to ensure that the village prudently manages
market, interest rate and credit risk.
   B.   Liquidity: The investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently liquid to
enable the village to meet all operating requirements which might be reasonably
projected.
   C.   Return On Investment: The investment portfolio shall be designed to
obtain the highest available return, taking into account the village's
investment risk constraints and cash flow needs and the village's desire to
promote fiscal responsibility. The portfolio shall seek to obtain the highest
investment return using authorized investments during budgetary and economic
cycles as mandated in section
1-8-1 of this chapter.
   The rate of return achieved on the village's portfolio will be measured
against relevant industry bench marks at regular intervals to determine the
effectiveness of investment decisions in meeting investment goals.
   D.   Periodic Review Of Investment Portfolio: The investment advisor or
advisors appointed by the board of trustees pursuant to section
1-8-14 of this chapter shall make a periodic review, not less frequently than
weekly, of the village's investment portfolio, its effectiveness in meeting the
village's needs for safety, liquidity, rate of return, and diversification, and
the general performance of such portfolio. The investment advisor shall report
to the executive director of the village on an "as needed" basis, and shall
report to the board of trustees at least quarterly. (Ord. 99-7, 12-20-1999)
1-8-3: PRUDENCE:
Investments shall be made with the judgment and care under the circumstances
then prevailing which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence exercise
in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment, considering the probable preservation of their capital as well as
the probable income to be derived. This "prudent person" standard shall be used
by all investment officers of the village and shall be followed in making
investments for the village and in managing those investments. (Ord. 99-7, 12-
20-1999)
1-8-4: ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST:
   A.   Authorized investment officers of the village and employees in policy
making positions shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict, or give the appearance of a conflict with proper execution of the
investment program, or which could impair their ability to make impartial
investment decisions. Such individuals shall disclose to the village any
material financial interest in financial institutions which conduct business
with the village, and they shall further disclose any personal financial
investment positions that could be related to the performance of the village's
investment portfolio. In addition, such individuals shall subordinate their
personal investment transactions to those of the village's investment
portfolio, particularly with regard to the time of purchases and sales.
   B.   No person acting as treasurer or financial officer for the village, or
who is employed in any similar capacity by or for the village, may do any of
the following:
      1.   Have any interest, directly or indirectly, in any investments in
which the village is authorized to invest;
      2.   Have any interest, directly or indirectly, in the sellers, sponsors,
or managers of those investments;
      3.   Receive, in any manner, compensation of any kind from any
investments in which the village is authorized to invest.
   C.   Nothing contained in this section shall preclude the village from
making a deposit of monies or investments in, engaging in other financial
transactions with, or receiving services from a financial institution or an
authorized broker/dealer, regardless of whether any person acting as treasurer
of the village or as financial officer or agent for the village is interested
in such financial institution or broker/dealer, provided, however, that such
person is interested in such financial institution or broker/dealer solely as a
clerk or other clerical employee and holds less than one-half percent (1/2%) of
the total ownership interest in such financial institution or authorized
broker/dealer, and provided, further, that such interested person: 1) publicly
state the nature and extent of his or her employment interest and his or her
ownership interest during any deliberations concerning any proposed transaction
with such financial institution or authorized broker/dealer, and 2) not
participate in any further deliberations concerning the proposed transaction.
   D.   Nothing contained in this section shall preclude the village from
making a deposit of monies or investment in any authorized investment listed in
section
1-8-6 of this chapter, regardless of whether any person acting as treasurer of
the village or as financial officer or agent for the village has deposited or
invested his or her personal monies or assets in such authorized investments,
provided, however, that the amount of such person's personal deposit or
investment in such authorized investment is less than one percent (1%) of the
total outstanding deposits or investments therein. (Ord. 99-7, 12-20-1999)
1-8-5: AUTHORIZED BROKER/DEALERS AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS:
   A.   Authorized investment officers shall utilize the village's approved
list of financial institutions when selecting institutions to provide
investment services. No public deposit shall be made except as authorized by
the Illinois public funds investment act 1 .
   B.   In addition, a list shall be maintained of approved security broker/
dealers selected according to their creditworthiness, and their financial
efficiency in serving the village, which shall be measured in terms of the
location of the broker/dealer's corporate office, the number of full time
employees, the size of its payroll, and the extent to which the broker/dealer
has an economic value to the village. The list may include "primary" dealers or
regional dealers which qualify under securities and exchange commission rules
240.15c3-1 (net capital requirements for brokers or dealers).
   C.   All financial institutions and broker/dealers who want to qualify to
bid for investment transactions must initially, and on a periodic basis upon
request, provide to the village's authorized investment officers the following,
where applicable:
      1.   Audited financial statements;
      2.   Proof of minority/female/disabled broker status;
      3.   A trading resolution;
      4.   Proof of state of Illinois registration;
      5.   Completed broker/dealer questionnaire;
      6.   Certification of notice and knowledge of the village's investment
policy;
      7.   Published reports for brokers from rating agencies with investment
grade ratings;
      8.   Proof of emerging broker status; and
      9.   Consolidated reports of condition and income.
   D.   An annual review of the financial condition and registration of
qualified bidders will be conducted by the village's authorized investment
officers. More frequent reviews may be conducted if warranted.
   E.   A current audited financial statement is required to be on file for
each financial institution and broker/dealer with which the village established
a depository, trading, or safekeeping relationship. Qualified bidders shall
submit annual audited financial statements and shall submit financial
statements when a material change occurs in the financial condition or
registration of qualified bidders. (Ord. 99-7, 12-20-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 235/0.01 et seq.
1-8-6: AUTHORIZED AND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS:
As of the effective date of this policy, the list of authorized investments
shall include the following as authorized by section 2 of the public funds
investment act 1 :
   A.   Bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, treasury bills, or other
securities now or hereafter issued, that are guaranteed by the full faith and
credit of the United States of America as to principal and interest;
   B.   Bonds, notes, debentures or other similar obligations of the United
States of America, or its agencies. For purposes of this policy, the term
"agencies of the United States of America" includes: 1) the federal land banks,
federal intermediate credit banks, banks for cooperative, federal farm credit
banks, or any other entity authorized to issue debt obligations under the farm
credit act of 1971 (12 USC 2001 et seq.) and acts amendatory thereto; and 2)
the federal home loan banks and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation; and
any other agency created by act of congress;
   C.   Interest bearing savings accounts, interest bearing certificates of
deposit, interest bearing time deposits, or any other investments constituting
direct obligations of any bank as defined by the Illinois banking act 2 ,
provided, however, that such investments may be made only in banks which are
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
   D.   Short term obligations of corporations organized in the United States
with assets exceeding five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000.00) if: 1)
such obligations are rated at the time of purchase at one of the three (3)
highest classifications established by at least two (2) standard rating
services (1 of which must be Standard & Poor's or Moody's) and which mature not
later than one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of purchase, 2) such
purchases do not exceed ten percent (10%) of the corporation's outstanding
obligations, and 3) no more than one-third (1/3) of the village's funds are
invested in short term obligations of corporations;
   E.   Money market mutual funds registered under the investment company act
of 1940 (15 USCA 80a-1 et seq.), provided that the portfolio of the money
market mutual fund is limited to obligations described in sections 2 (a)(1) and
(2) of the public funds investment act 3 ;
   F.   Short term discount obligations of the Federal National Mortgage
Association (established by or under the national housing act (120 USC 1701 et
seq.)), or in shares or other forms of securities legally issuable by savings
banks or savings and loan associations incorporated under the laws of Illinois
or any other state or under the laws of the United States, provided, however,
that the shares or investment certificates of such savings banks or savings and
loan associations are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
   G.   Dividend bearing share accounts, share certificates accounts, or class
of share accounts of a credit union chartered under the laws of the state of
Illinois or the laws of the United States; provided, however, the principal
office of the credit union must be located within the state of Illinois; and,
provided further, that such investments may be made only in those credit unions
the accounts of which are insured by applicable law;
   H.   The public treasurer's investment pool created under section 17 of the
state treasurer act 4  or in a fund managed, operated and administered by a
bank, subsidiary of a bank, or subsidiary of a bank holding company, or use the
services of such an entity to hold and invest or advise regarding the
investment of any public funds;
   I.   Repurchase agreements of government securities having the meaning set
out in the government securities act of 1986 (15 USCA 870-5) subject to the
provisions of that act and the regulations issued thereunder, provided,
however, that such government securities, unless registered or inscribed in the
name of the village, shall be purchased through banks or trust companies
authorized to do business in the state of Illinois; and such other repurchase
agreements are authorized in subsection (h) of section 2 of the public funds
investment act 5 . Repurchase agreements may be executed only with approved
financial institutions or broker/dealers meeting the village's established
standards, which shall include mutual execution of a master repurchase
agreement adopted by the village. (Ord. 99-7, 12-20-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 235/2.
2 2. 205 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
3 3. 30 ILCS 235/2(a)(1) and (2).
4 1. 15 ILCS 505/17.
5 2. 30 ILCS 235/2.
1-8-7: INVESTMENT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Authorized investment officers shall not invest in triparty repurchase
agreements or derivative products and will not leverage assets through reverse
repurchase agreements.
   B.   Except for repurchase agreements of government securities which are
subject to the government securities act of 1986, the village shall not
purchase or invest in instruments which constitute repurchase agreements, and
no financial institution may enter into such an agreement with or on behalf of
the village unless the instruments and the transaction meet the requirements of
section 2(h) of the Illinois public funds investment act 1 .
   C.   Repurchase agreements may be executed only with approved financial
institutions or broker/dealers meeting the village's established standard,
which shall include a mutual execution of a master repurchase agreement adopted
by the village. (Ord. 99-7, 12-20-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 235/2(h).
1-8-8: COLLATERALIZATION:
Collateralization will be required above depository insured amounts on two (2)
types of village investments:
   A.   Deposit Collateralization: Collateral securities approved by the
village with a market value equal to at least one hundred ten percent (110%) of
deposits in excess of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per
institution shall be required. The collateral shall be marked to market and
adjusted, if necessary, to the one hundred ten percent (110%) level on at least
a weekly basis. Insured certificates of deposit, share certificates, surety
bonds and letters of credit with a value of at least one hundred two percent
(102%) of deposits in excess of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per
institution shall be required.
   B.   Repurchase Agreement Collateralization: Direct treasury securities with
a market value equal to at least one hundred two percent (102%) of the value of
the repurchase agreement shall be maintained at all times. Repurchase agreement
collateral shall be marked to market at the time of execution, and daily
thereafter. (Ord. 99-7, 12-20-1999)
1-8-9: DIVERSIFICATION:
The investment portfolio shall be diversified to eliminate the risk of loss
resulting from concentration of assets in a specific maturity, a specific
issuer or a specific class of securities. In order to properly manage any risk
attendant to the investment of village assets, the portfolio shall not exceed
the following diversification limits unless specifically authorized by the
village:
   A.   The village shall seek to achieve diversification in the portfolio by
distributing investment amounts in authorized investment categories among
financial institutions, issuers and broker/dealers;
   B.   The investment portfolio shall at no time hold time deposits
constituting more than ten percent (10%) of any single financial institution's
total deposits;
   C.   No investment category set forth in section
1-8-6 of this chapter shall exceed forty percent (40%) of the village's
portfolio, with the exception of cash equivalents and treasury securities as
defined in said section
1-8-6 of this chapter; and
   D.   The village shall invest the majority of village funds in authorized
investments of less than one year maturity. No investment shall exceed two (2)
years' maturity. (Ord. 99-7, 12-20-1999)
1-8-10: SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY:
All security transactions entered into by the village shall be conducted on a
delivery versus payment (DVP) or receipt versus payment (RVP) basis. Securities
shall be held by a safekeeping agent designated by the village, and evidenced
by safekeeping receipts. (Ord. 99-7, 12-20-1999)
1-8-11: INTERNAL CONTROLS:
The village's investment advisor(s) shall establish a system of internal
control, which shall be documented in writing and filed with the village's
board of trustees for review. The controls shall be designed to prevent losses
of public funds arising from fraud, employee error, misrepresentation by third
parties, unanticipated changes in financial markets or imprudent actions by
authorized investment officers.
   A.   Asset Allocation: The allocation of assets within investment categories
authorized under section
1-8-6 of this chapter shall be approved by the village.
   B.   Competitive Bidding: Authorized investment officers shall obtain
competitive bids from at least three (3) broker/dealers prior to executing the
purchase or sale of any authorized investment.
Certificates of deposit shall be purchased by authorized investment officers on
the basis of a qualified financial institution's ability to pay a required rate
of interest to the village set on a daily basis. Such rate is generally
determined on the basis of treasury or other appropriate market rates for a
comparable term. (Ord. 99-7, 12-20-1999)
1-8-12: LIMITATION OF LIABILITY:
The standard of prudence to be used by authorized investment officers shall be
the "prudent person" standard as stated in section
1-8-3 of this chapter, and shall be applied in the context of managing an
overall portfolio. Authorized investment officers acting in accordance with
written procedures and this policy and exercising due diligence shall be
relieved of personal liability for an individual security's credit risk or
market price changes, provided deviations from expectations are reported in a
timely fashion and necessary action is taken to control adverse developments.
(Ord. 99-7, 12-20-1999)
1-8-13: REPORTING:
   A.   Financial reports shall be presented quarterly to the village by the
executive director. The quarterly report shall contain the following:
      1.   Performance as compared to established bench marks;
      2.   Asset allocation;
      3.   Any circumstances resulting in a deviation from the standards
established in section
1-8-9 of this chapter;
      4.   Impact of any material change in investment policy adopted during
the quarter;
      5.   The average days to maturity; and
      6.   A listing of all investments in the portfolio marked to market
value, including, but not limited to, information regarding securities in the
portfolio by class or type, by value, income earned and market value as of the
report date.
   B.   The village's investment advisor(s) shall develop performance reports
in compliance with established industry reporting standards within six (6)
months following the adoption of this investment policy. Such reporting
standards may include those sanctioned by the association of investment
management research ("AIMR") in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principals ("GAAP"). (Ord. 99-7, 12-20-1999)
1-8-14: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY:
   A.   The board of trustees shall employ one or more investment advisor(s)
possessing superior capabilities in the management of assets of governmental
bodies. The board of trustees shall require the investment advisor(s) selected
and working on behalf of the village to meet the following conditions:
      1.   To take actions in the exercise of its discretion which in its best
professional judgment are in the best interest of the village and in accordance
with this policy. Such actions include, but are not limited to: a) the
allocation of village funds among alternative types of investments; b) specific
investment opportunities regarding the acquisition, retention or disposition of
investments; and c) the recommendation of the addition, deletion or
modification of authorized investments.
      2.   To execute all investment transactions on behalf of the village at
the best net price, utilizing such approved brokers and dealers as it deems
appropriate to obtain the best execution capabilities and/or valuable
information with respect to the economy, at the lowest cost to the village.
      3.   Such additional responsibilities as are set forth in such investment
advisor's written contract with the village.
   B.   The village's investment advisor(s) shall be responsible for
establishing the internal controls in written procedures for the operation of
the village's investment program as set forth in this policy.
   C.   Until the board of trustees appoints one or more investment advisor(s),
management responsibility for the investment program set forth in this policy
is delegated to the executive director of the village. (Ord. 99-7, 12-20-1999)
1-8-15: RESERVATION OF RIGHTS:
The village reserves the right to amend this policy at any time upon the advice
and consent of its board of trustees. (Ord. 99-7, 12-20-1999)
CHAPTER 9
TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
1-9-1: Title
1-9-2: Scope
1-9-3: Definitions
1-9-4: Notices
1-9-5: Late Payment
1-9-6: Payment
1-9-7: Certain Credits And Refund
1-9-8: Audit Procedure
1-9-9: Appeal
1-9-10: Hearing
1-9-11: Interest And Penalties
1-9-12: Abatement
1-9-13: Installment Contracts
1-9-14: Statute Of Limitations
1-9-15: Voluntary Disclosure
1-9-16: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
1-9-17: Liens Filed For Unpaid Taxes
1-9-18: Application
1-9-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 01-1, 2-5-2001)
1-9-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the village's procedures in
connection with all of the village's locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 01-1, 2-5-2001)
1-9-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act".
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village's president and board of trustees.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village's finance committee chair is charged with
the administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered
taxes, including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized
by the local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead.
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of
this chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such
authority by the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this
chapter and the act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the village other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any locally
imposed and administered taxes.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of Herscher, Illinois. (Ord. 01-1, 2-5-2001)
1-9-4: NOTICES:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 01-1, 2-5-2001)
1-9-5: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date, or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village, with adequate
postage prepaid. (Ord. 01-1, 2-5-2001)
1-9-6: PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third the penalty for the
applicable period. (Ord. 01-1, 2-5-2001)
1-9-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUND:
   A.   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   B.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be two
(2) years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
   C.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any money to the village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of nine percent (9%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 01-1, 2-5-2001)
1-9-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within the
thirty (30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal
business hours.
   C.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   D.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   E.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   F.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   G.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 01-1, 2-5-2001)
1-9-9: APPEAL:
   A.   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax administrator
of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the local tax
administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the
basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest and petition
for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within forty five
(45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   C.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the local
tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   D.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   E.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for the hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord. 01-1, 2-5-2001)
1-9-10: HEARING:
   A.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section
1-9-9 of this chapter, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal.
   B.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days.
   C.   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall hear
testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit or
assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination of the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 01-1, 2-5-2001)
1-9-11: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
   A.   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be nine
percent (9.00%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365)
days and the number of days elapsed.
   B.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5.00%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as
due on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of twenty five
percent (25%) of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period for
which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance. (Ord. 01-1, 2-5-2001)
1-9-12: ABATEMENT:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 01-1, 2-5-2001)
1-9-13: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the local
tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer
fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or fails to
demonstrate faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local
administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without further
notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 01-1, 2-5-2001)
1-9-14: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns
in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and
owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of
the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   A.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   B.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   C.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 01-1, 2-5-2001)
1-9-15: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of the tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 01-1, 2-5-2001)
1-9-16: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirement. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (Ord. 01-1, 2-5-2001)
1-9-17: LIENS FILED FOR UNPAID TAXES:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord. 01-
1, 2-5-2001)
1-9-18: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the village's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be
controlling. (Ord. 01-1, 2-5-2001)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Planning Commission   1
Board of Appeals   2
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Creation; Membership; Meetings
2-1-2: Duties
2-1-3: Compensation
2-1-1: CREATION; MEMBERSHIP; MEETINGS:
A planning commission is hereby authorized to be established. The planning
commission shall consist of five (5) members appointed by the village president
and with the consent of the board of trustees. The members of said planning
commission shall serve respectively for the following terms, or until their
respective successors are appointed and qualified: one for a one year term; one
for a two (2) year term; one for a three (3) year term; one for a four (4) year
term and one for a five (5) year term. The successor to each member so
appointed will serve for a term of five (5) years if appointed to fill an
expired term. The respective terms set forth herein shall expire on April 30 of
each year. Vacancies upon said planning commission shall be filled for the
unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant in the manner herein
provided for the appointment of such member. One of the members of said
planning commission shall be designated by the village president, with the
consent of the board of trustees, as chairman of the planning commission, and
shall hold his said office as chairman until his successor is appointed. Such
chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman, may administer oaths and
compel the attendance of witnesses. The village president shall have the power
to remove any member of said planning commission for cause and after a public
hearing. The meetings of the planning commission shall be held at such times as
the planning commission, by rule, directs. (Ord. 06-01, 1-3-2006)
2-1-2: DUTIES:
The planning commission is to recommend the boundaries of various districts and
appropriate regulations to be enforced therein and to study the zoning and
planning needs of the village, give notice, hold hearings, formulate
comprehensive zoning and to carry on these same functions relative to rezoning
districts or amendments of the subdivisions title 1  or zoning title 2 . (Ord.,
11-30-1974)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
2 2. See title 10 of this code.
2-1-3: COMPENSATION:
Each member of the planning commission shall receive the sum of ten dollars
($10.00) per meeting as his compensation for attendance to each meeting of the
planning commission, payable at the end of each fiscal year. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Creation and Membership
2-2-2: Meetings
2-2-3: Compensation
2-2-4: Appeal
2-2-5: Duties and Jurisdiction
2-2-6: Orders of Board, Time Valid
2-2-1: CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP:
A Board of Appeals is hereby authorized to be established. The word "Board"
when used in this Chapter shall be construed to mean the Board of Appeals. The
Board shall consist of seven (7) members appointed by the Village President, by
and with the consent of the Board of Trustees. The members of the Board shall
serve respectively for the following terms, or until their respective
successors are appointed and qualified: one for one year; one for two (2)
years; one for three (3) years; one for four (4) years; one for five (5) years;
one for six (6) years; and one for seven (7) years. One of the members of the
Board shall be designated by the Village President, with, the consent of the
Board of Trustees, as chairman of the Board and shall hold his office as
chairman until his successor is appointed. The chairman may administer oaths
and compel the attendance of witnesses. The Village President shall have the
power to remove any member of the Board for cause and after a public hearing.
Vacancies upon the Board shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member
whose place has become vacant in the manner herein provided for the appointment
of such member.
2-2-2: MEETINGS:
All meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be held at the call of the chairman
or at any such time as the Board may determine. All hearings conducted by the
Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its
hearings and other official actions. No hearing shall be conducted without a
quorum of the Board being present, which shall consist of a majority of all the
members. Any absent member who certifies that he has read the transcript of the
proceeding before the Board may vote upon any question before the Board.
Findings of fact shall be included in the minutes of each case of a requested
variation and the reasons for recommending or denying such variations shall be
specified. Every rule or regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof, and
every order, requirement, decision or determination of the Board shall be filed
immediately in the office of the Board and shall be a public record. The Board
shall adopt its own rules of procedure not in conflict with the Zoning Title 1
or other sections of this Code or with the Illinois Statutes.
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10 of this Code.
2-2-3: COMPENSATION:
Each member of the Board of Appeals shall receive the sum of ten dollars
($10.00) per meeting as his compensation for attendance to each meeting of said
Board of Appeals, payable at the end of each fiscal year.
2-2-4: APPEAL:
   A.   An appeal may be taken to the Board of Appeals by any person or by any
officer, department, board or bureau of the Village affected by a decision of
the Building Inspector. Such appeal shall be taken within such time as shall be
prescribed by the Board of Appeals by general rules, by filing with the
Building Inspector and with the Board of Appeals a notice of appeal, specifying
the grounds thereof. The Building Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the
Board of Appeals all of the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken.
   B.   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Board of Appeals,
after the notice of appeal has been filed with him, that by reason of facts
stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril
to life or property; in which case, the proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board of
Appeals, or by a court of record on application or notice to the Building
Inspector and on due cause shown.
The Board shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing of the
appeal and give notice thereof to the parties and shall render a decision on
the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any person may appear and testify at the
hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
   D.   A fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00) shall be paid to the Building
Inspector at the time the notice of appeal is filed which the Building
Inspector shall forthwith pay over to the Village Treasurer to the credit of
the General Revenue Fund of the Village.
2-2-5: DUTIES AND JURISDICTION:
   A.   The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from and review any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Building Inspector.
The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify or amend, the
order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from to the extent and
in the manner that the Board may decide to be fitting and proper in the
premises, and to that end the Board shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken.
   B.   The Board, on its own initiative or at the request of any person
including the Building Inspector, may recommend to the Village Board, after
public hearing, amendments to the Building Title 1  and Zoning Title 2  of this
Code.
   C.   The Board of Appeals shall also hold public hearings on, and when in
harmony with the general purpose and intent of the Zoning Title of this Code,
may authorize the following exceptions to the terms thereof:
      1.   The extension of a district where the boundary line of a district
divides a lot in a single ownership at the time of the passage of the Zoning
Title.
      2.   Interpretation of the provisions of the Zoning Title in such a way
as to carry out the intent and purpose of the plan, as shown upon the map
fixing the several districts adopted by reference in said Zoning Title where
the street layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown
on said map.
      3.   The erection and use of a building or the use of premises in any
location for a railroad or public service corporation for public utility
purposes which the Board determines reasonably necessary for the public
convenience or welfare.
      4.   The reconstruction of a nonconforming building which has been
damaged by explosion, fire, act of God or the public enemy to the extent of
more than sixty percent (60%) of its fair market value, where the Board finds
some compelling necessity requiring continuance of the nonconforming use and
the primary purpose of continuing the nonconforming use is not to continue a
monopoly.
      5.   The waiving or reduction of the parking and loading requirements in
any of the districts whenever the character or use of the building is such as
to make unnecessary the full provision of parking or loading facilities, or
where such regulations would impose an unreasonable hardship upon the use of
the lot, as contrasted with merely granting an advantage or a convenience.
      6.   Extension of the period within which a nonconforming commercial or
industrial use is to be removed from a dwelling district, when the owner or
owners can furnish substantial proof that the building was so extensively
remodeled, reconstructed or structurally altered, after the original
construction that it practically resulted in a new building, but such extension
of the period shall not exceed forty (40) years from the date of such
remodeling, reconstruction or structural alteration.
   D.   Where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a
specific piece of property, or by reason of exceptional topographical
conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional situations, or condition of a
specific piece of property, the strict application of the Zoning Title results
in peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties, and clearly demonstrates
hardship upon the owner of such property, amounting to practical confiscation
thereof, and not a mere inconvenience to such owner, the Board of Appeals may
authorize, after public hearing, a variation in the strict application of the
terms of the Zoning Title. In its consideration of the standards of practical
difficulties of particular hardship, the Board of Appeals shall require
evidence that:
      1.   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
that zone;
      2.   That plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances, which
circumstances do not apply to other adjoining or nearby property; and
      3.   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the locality.
A variation shall be permitted only if the evidence, in the judgment of the
Board of Appeals, sustains each of the three (3) conditions herein enumerated.
   E.   Notice of the time and place of the public hearings before the Board of
Appeals shall be given by publishing at least once not more than thirty (30)
days, nor less than fifteen (15) days, before the hearings, in one or more
newspapers published in, or of general circulation in the County.
   F.   In considering all appeals and all proposed variations of the Zoning
Title, the Board shall, before making any variations from said Zoning Title in
a specific case, first determine that the proposed variation will not impair an
adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property or unreasonably increase
the congestion in public streets, increase the danger of fire, endanger the
public safety, unreasonably diminish or impair established property values
within the surrounding area or in any other respect impair the public health,
safety, comfort, morals or welfare of the inhabitants of the Village.
   G.   The concurring vote of four (4) members of the Board shall be necessary
to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the Building
Inspector, or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which it is
authorized by the Zoning Title to render a decision.
   H.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the
Board the power or authority to alter or change the Zoning Title or the
District Map, such power and authority being reserved to the Village Board of
Trustees.
   I.   A duplicate of all findings shall be rendered to the Building Inspector
who thereafter shall follow such determination or interpretation until it is
legally overruled by the Board, by the court or by amendment by the Village
Board. The Board shall adopt its own rules and procedures not in conflict with
the Zoning Title or any other provision of this Code, or with the Illinois
Statutes.
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 8 of this Code.
2 2. See Title 10 of this Code.
2-2-6: ORDERS OF BOARD, TIME VALID:
No order of the Board permitting the erection or alteration of a building shall
be valid for a period longer than one year, unless a building permit for such
erection or alteration is obtained within such period, and such erection or
alteration is started and proceeds to completion in accordance with the terms
of such permit. (Ord., 11-30-74; amd. 1983 Code)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Municipal Occupation Taxes   1
Liquor Regulations   2
Solicitors And Peddlers   3
Wrecking Yards; Junk Dealers   4
Clothes Modeling Establishments   5
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee   6
Pyrotechnic Displays   7
Licenses For Raffles   8
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Service Occupation Tax
3-1-2: Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-1-1: SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the village in the business of
making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%) of the cost of all
tangible personal property transferred by said servicemen either in the form of
tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as incident to the
sale of service in accordance with section 8-11-5 of the Illinois municipal
code. (1983 Code)
3-1-2: RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the village in the business of
selling intangible personal property at retail, at the rate of one percent (1%)
of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business, in
accordance with section 8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-2-3: License Required
3-2-4: Classification Of Licenses
3-2-5: Application Contents; Insurance Requirements
3-2-6: Referral Of Application
3-2-7: License Fees, Expiration, Transfers
3-2-8: Number Of Licenses
3-2-9: Posting License
3-2-10: Bond
3-2-11: Location Change
3-2-12: Hours Of Sale
3-2-13: View From Street
3-2-14: Sanitary Measures
3-2-15: Inspection By Police Officers
3-2-16: Minors, Incompetents
3-2-17: Payment For Purchases
3-2-18: Prohibited Acts Or Conditions
3-2-19: Adoption Of State Regulations
3-2-20: Revocation Or Suspension
3-2-21: Violations
3-2-22: Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise indicates, the following words and phrases shall
have the same meaning as given them by the definitions contained in section 2,
article 1 of an act entitled "an act relating to alcoholic liquors", enacted by
the general assembly of the state, approved January 31, 1934 1 , as amended.
LICENSEE: Any person, firm, partnership, club, organization or corporation
receiving a license under this chapter.
LIQUOR: Any intoxicating malt, vinous, mixed or fermented liquor.
MICRO-BREWER Y: A brewery that produces no more than nine hundred fifty
thousand (950,000) gallons of beer per year and is licensed as a class 1 brewer
by the State of Illinois.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, club, organization or corporation.
RETAIL LIQUOR DEALER: Any "person" as defined herein, selling or offering for
sale or keeping with the intention of selling liquor at retail or any person
giving away liquor. (Ord., 5-15-1967; amd. Ord., 6-3-1974; 1983 Code; Ord. 24-
02, 9-5-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5.
3-2-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The village president shall be the local liquor control commissioner and shall
have such power and perform such duties as are prescribed in the act of the
general assembly referred to in section
3-2-1 of this chapter 1 . (Ord., 5-15-1967; amd. Ord., 6-3-1974; 1983 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS.
3-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: No person shall sell, expose or offer for sale at retail or
display within the corporate limits of the village, any alcoholic liquor
without first obtaining a license from the local liquor control commissioner.
   B.   Transferability: No license issued pursuant hereto shall be
transferable except: 1) in case of death or insanity of the licensee, whereupon
said license shall be canceled unless it be reissued upon proper application to
the widow, heir at law or next of kin of the licensee, or 2) according to the
provisions of subsection
3-2-7D of this chapter. (Ord., 5-15-1967; amd. Ord., 6-3-1974; 1983 Code)
3-2-4: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   Class A regular retailers' license shall permit the licensee to sell
alcoholic liquor in packages or by drink for consumption on or off the premises
where sold.
   B.   Class B regular retailers' license shall permit the licensee to sell
alcoholic liquor in packages for consumption off the premises where sold.
   C.   Class C regular retailers' license shall permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor by drink for consumption on the premises where sold, by only a not for
profit corporation or a not for profit organization. (Ord., 5-15-1967; amd.
Ord., 6-3-1974; 1983 Code)
   D.   Class D regular retailers' license shall permit the licensee to sell
alcoholic liquor by drink for consumption on the premises where sold, wherein
said alcoholic liquor is not greater than fourteen percent (14%) alcohol by
weight and where said licensee sells the alcoholic liquor of less than fourteen
percent (14%) alcohol on or during the Herscher Labor Day celebration. (Ord.,
8-30-1990)
   E.   Class E restricted retailers' license shall permit the licensee to sell
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises where sold solely for members
of the licensee and the guest of any member.
   F.   Class F restaurateurs' retailer license shall permit the licensee to
sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises provided said licensee
shall not sell alcoholic beverages after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. each
evening. Further, said licensee shall not sell alcoholic beverages at any time
the food services of said licensee are not available. (Ord., 12-19-1994)
   G.   There is hereby established a Class G liquor license which shall permit
the sale by a retail grocery store and motor vehicle service station
convenience store of any alcoholic beverages for consumption off the licensed
premises, and the sale of beer and/or wine for consumption in a designated
consumption area.
      1.   Definitions:
 
                              Shall permit the sale of any alcoholic
                              beverages for consumption off the
CLASS G LICENSE:              licensed premises, and the sale of beer
                              and/or wine for consumption in a
                              designated consumption area on the
                              licensed premises.
                              Shall mean an area designated by the
                              holder of the liquor license, and
CONSUMPTION AREA:             approved by the Village, which is
                              separate and apart from the area in the
                              licensed establishment where groceries
                              are displayed.
                              Shall, for purposes of this section, only
CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES:  mean the consumption of beer and/or wine
                              in the "consumption area" on the premises
                              of the licensed establishment.
                              Shall mean any tax returns, ledger
FINANCIAL RECORDS:            sheets, balance sheets, or any other
                              documents showing an indicia of sales.
                              Shall mean an establishment offering for
                              retail sale, prepackaged food products,
                              household items, newspapers and
                              magazines, sandwiches and other freshly
MOTOR VEHICLE SERVICE STATION prepared foods and the like and, also,
CONVENIENCE STORE:            offering the dispensing of motor vehicle
                              fuels for retail sale. Said store shall
                              be required to have a gross floor area of
                              not less than one thousand (1,000) square
                              feet excluding the area allocated to the
                              sales of alcoholic beverages.
                              Shall mean an establishment in which the
                              sale at retail of groceries, including
                              meats, produce, canned goods, and other
RETAIL GROCERY STORE:         items for human consumption and use,
                              commonly sold by grocery stores account
                              for fifty percent (50%) of the
                              establishment's (gross/net) revenues.
                              Shall have those meanings ascribed it in
VIDEO GAMING:                 the Illinois "Video Gaming Act" (230 ILCS
                              40/1, et. seq.).
 
      2.   Any person or entity may apply for a Class G liquor license allowing
it to sell any alcoholic beverage for consumption off the premises, and/or for
the sale of beer and/or wine for consumption on the licensed premises, as
herein below allowed.
      3.   In order to allow the liquor commissioner to determine whether a
retail grocery store or motor vehicle service station convenience store is
eligible for a Class G liquor license, any person or entity applying for a
Class G liquor license, shall provide to the liquor commissioner any and all
financial records as required by the liquor commissioner upon or after the
filing of the application, or at any time during the term of the issuance of
the Class G liquor license.
      4.   Any person or entity applying for a Class G liquor license where the
consumption of beer and/or wine on the licensed premises will be allowed on the
licensed premises shall designate and construct a consumption area on the
licensed premises, which consumption area shall be separate and apart from the
area as allowed under the Video Gaming Act, as defined and allowed under 230
ILCS 40/1 et. seq.
      5.   No person shall be allowed to remove or take any open container of
beer and/or wine out of the area designated for the consumption of beer and/or
wine on the licensed premises.
      6.   There shall be two (2) Class G liquor licenses available for
issuance hereunder.
      7.   All other provisions of this Chapter 2, Liquor Licenses, shall be
applicable to retail grocery store establishments and motor vehicle service
station convenience store, where not in conflict with this subsection G.
   H.   This hereby established a Class H liquor license which:
      1.   Shall permit the retain sale of manufactured beer products for
consumption on the premises;
      2.   Shall permit the retail sale of manufactured beer products in the
original package not for consumption on the premises where sold;
      3.   Shall permit the manufacturing, bottling and selling of up to
seventy-five thousand (75,000) barrels thirty-one ((31) gallons per barrel) of
craft beer products per year on the licensed premises.
      4.   Require that the retail sale of manufactured beer products shall be
in a location separated from the remainder of the premises, except during
supervised tours or private parties. (Ord. 19-05, 8-5-2019; amd. Ord. 24-02, 9-
5-2024)
3-2-5: APPLICATION CONTENTS; INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Application shall be made as required by this chapter to the Village Clerk
accompanied by the proper fee and shall be delivered by the Village Clerk to
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner who shall approve or reject the same as
herein provided. The application shall provide the following:
   A.   Name, age and address of an individual applicant.
   B.   The name of the person entitled to participate in the profits, if it is
a partnership application.
   C.   The objects, names and addresses of the officers and directors, if a
corporate application, and whether or not one person owns a controlling
interest in such corporation and, if so, his name and address.
   D.   The citizenship, place of birth and place of naturalization, if foreign
born, of an individual applicant.
   E.   The location and a description of the type or nature of the premises
where such liquor will be sold, served or consumed.
   F.   Whether or not any previous similar license has been applied for, the
place of application and the disposition of such application and if revoked,
the reason therefor.
   G.   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, been
an inmate or keeper of a house of ill fame, or committed any offense opposed to
decency and morality.
   H.   No license shall be issued to any person ineligible under section 2 of
article 6 of the Act herein referred to 1 . A manager or agent, including
bartenders, is required to have the same qualifications as the person or firm
to whom the license is issued. The names of all managers shall be listed on
said application.
   I.   All applications shall be verified by the applicant or if a
corporation, by an authorized officer thereof.
   J.   The application shall be accompanied by a license fee herein provided.
   K.   That the proposed location is not within one hundred feet (100') of any
church, school, hospital, home for the aged or indigent person or veterans,
their wives or children or any medical or naval station. The application shall
also state the nature of the establishment wherein liquor will be served and
the name of the owner of the premises.
   L.   Where applicant is not the owner of the premises, said application
shall be accompanied by a valid lease between the owner and the applicant for a
minimum period of one year to coincide with the period for which the
application is made.
   M.   Licensee will not violate any of the laws of the Municipality, State or
United States of America in the conduct of his business.
   N.   No license shall be issued unless there shall be filed with the
application therefor, a policy of insurance or satisfactory evidence that such
policy of insurance has been purchased and that the premium has been pre paid
and the policy has been issued insuring the applicant for liability in amounts
as determined by the Illinois office of comptroller pursuant to section 6-21(a)
of the liquor control act of 1934 (235 ILCS 5/6-21(a) as amended).
   O.   No licensee shall lease from or directly or indirectly receive or
accept from any manufacturer, distiller, brewer, bottler, wholesaler, jobber or
distributor, or from any agent or representative thereof, gratuitously any
money or thing of value nor shall said licensee borrow money from or permit
said person(s) to obtain directly or indirectly any interest in the ownership,
conduct or operation of the applicant's retail liquor business.
   P.   No license shall be issued to any applicant indebted to the Village,
County or any department thereof.
   Q.   If an applicant, to the best of his or her knowledge, fails in any
manner to set forth truthful information on the entire application, the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the authority to reject the application.
After issuance of a license, if the applicant is later found to have supplied
false information on the application, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
shall have the authority to revoke said license. (Ord. 11-29, 8-15-2011; amd.
Ord. 24-02, 9-5-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/6-2.
3-2-6: REFERRAL OF APPLICATION:
All applications for liquor licenses shall be referred to the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner who, together with the Village Board acting as a
commission, shall investigate the qualifications and character of the
applicant. The Police Chief or designee shall conduct a records check of the
applicant, and report the findings to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall, within thirty (30) days after said
application, approve or reject said application. In the event said application
is rejected, all fees paid by the applicant shall be refunded. (Ord. 11-20, 8-
15-2011)
3-2-7: LICENSE FEES, EXPIRATION, TRANSFERS:
   A.   The per annum fee for all Class A licenses shall be six hundred dollars
($600.00) payable on or before May 1 of each year. The per annum fee for all
Class B licenses shall be six hundred dollars ($600.00) payable on or before
May 1 of each year. The per annum fee for all Class C licenses shall be one
hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) payable on or before May 1 of each year.
The per annum fee for all Class D licenses shall be one dollar ($1.00) payable
on or before May 1 of each year. The per annum fee for all Class E licenses
shall be six hundred dollars ($600.00) payable on or before May 1 of each year.
      The per annum fee for all Class F licenses shall be six hundred dollars
($600.00) payable on or before May 1 of each year. The per annum fee for all
Class G licenses shall be six hundred dollars ($600.00) payable on or before
May 1 of each year. The per annum fee for all Class H licenses shall be six
hundred dollars ($600.00) payable on May 1 of each year. The fee for all
applications for a new license at a new place of business received after the
annual license renewal date shall be equal to the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00)
per month or partial month remaining until the annual license expiration date.
(Ord. 17-3, 2-21-2017)
   B.   The expiration of all licenses shall be at twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight on April 30 of each year.
   C.   All payments for a given period shall be payable in advance at the time
of filing application therefor.
   D.   The fee to transfer use of license from one location to another, after
permission is granted, shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). When a licensee sells
or transfers his business to another, such successor shall pay to the Village a
fee equal to the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per month or partial month
remaining on said license before its expiration, up to a maximum of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) in cases where an existing valid license is reissued to
such successor after he qualifies, for use at the same location, in which event
the seller/licensee shall surrender his license for cancellation which shall
conclude his interest therein. The successor shall first qualify and comply
with all requirements of this chapter and pay in advance for the reissuance of
said license.
   E.   No license shall be transferred without the consent of the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner. (Ord., 5-15-1967; amd. 1983 Code; Ord. 24-02, 9-5-2024)
3-2-8: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The total number of licenses issued within the village shall not exceed
thirteen (13) in number; provided however that there shall only be available
within the village three (3) class A licenses; two (2) class B license(s); one
(1) class C license; two (2) class D licenses; one (1) class E license; one (1)
class F license; and, two (2) class G license and one (1) Class H license.
It is further provided however, that no license shall be refused to any
licensee in good standing as of April 30 of any year hereafter if such licensee
requests a new license and is eligible to receive the same. No license shall,
however, be issued to any applicant other than a licensee in good standing at
the end of any license year until such time as the total number of licenses
issued is less than thirteen (13) in number. Provided, further, that no license
shall be issued to any applicant if the total number of licenses issued for
that class license exceeds the number set forth herein. (Ord. 19-06, 9-3-2019;
amd. Ord. 19-06, 9-3-2019; Ord. 23-02, 2-6-2023; Ord. 24-02, 9-5-2024)
3-2-9: POSTING LICENSE:
Every person licensed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall
immediately post and keep posted while in effect, in a conspicuous place on the
premises, the license so issued. In the event such license shall be lost or
destroyed, a duplicate in lieu thereof shall be issued by the Village Clerk
upon direction of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. (Ord., 5-15-1967; amd.
1983 Code)
3-2-10: BOND:
The applicant shall execute a surety bond to the Village in the penal sum of
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) with the sureties to be approved by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner, conditioned upon the faithful observance of the
provisions of this chapter and the laws of the State and upon the payment of
all fines and costs which may be assessed against him for violation of any of
the provisions hereof. (Ord., 5-15-1967; amd. 1983 Code)
3-2-11: LOCATION CHANGE:
The location of a licensee's place of business may not be changed unless upon
written permission first issued by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. No
change shall be permitted except to a location permitted under the Act referred
to herein and the ordinances of the Village. Clubs, fraternal organizations,
restaurants and hotels only may be granted licenses for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquors in rooms situated on other than the first or ground floor of
any premises. (Ord., 5-15-1967; amd. 1983 Code)
3-2-12: HOURS OF SALE:
   A.   Alcoholic Liquors may be sold, given or delivered pursuant hereto, in
licensed premises between the hour of six o'clock (2:00) A.M. and two o'clock
(6:00) A.M.
   B.   No licensee shall permit any person or persons other than licensee or
employees to remain in the premises where liquor is offered for sale longer
than thirty (30) minutes after said closing hour. The hours herein stated shall
be the time prevailing in the Village (i.e., DST or CST). (Ord., 5-15-1967;
amd. 1983 Code; Ord., 11-7-1994; Ord. 21-09, 9-7-2021)
3-2-13: VIEW FROM STREET:
   A.   No curtains, drapes, screens, doors, partitions or view obstructing
device shall be used or built within any establishment or premises used by any
licensee for sale of liquor, erected for the purpose of concealment or hiding
any person or patron for such establishment.
   B.   The interior doors of said licensed premises shall, at all times during
business hours, remain unlocked and the exterior windows shall, at all times,
be maintained in a condition so as to afford an unobstructed view of the entire
interior of the premises from the exterior thereof during the hours that liquor
is sold therein. (Ord., 5-15-1967; amd. 1983 Code)
3-2-14: SANITARY MEASURES:
   A.   Sanitary measures for cleaning and caring for all glasses, dishes,
utensils and equipment shall be provided for by all licensees hereunder.
   B.   No license shall be granted to any applicant for the sale of
intoxicating liquors for consumption on the premises unless separate sanitary
toilets for men and women have been installed and provided on said premises,
and such toilets shall, at all times, be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition, shall have hot and cold running water and shall be in compliance
with all Village ordinances.
   C.   The licensee and the employees on premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor shall comply with the provisions of State law relative to the
health and cleanliness of employees selling food and drink 1 . (Ord., 5-15-
1967; amd. 1983 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 410 ILCS 650/1 et seq.
3-2-15: INSPECTION BY POLICE OFFICERS:
All licensees are hereby required to make available for inspection by the local
liquor control commissioner and police officers of the village, the premises
where liquor is sold, served or consumed. (Ord., 5-15-1967; amd. 1983 Code)
3-2-16: MINORS, INCOMPETENTS:
   A.   Age Restriction: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to purchase or obtain any alcoholic liquor in any tavern
or other place in the village where the alcoholic liquor is sold, or to have
same in his or her possession.
   B.   Minors, Incompetents; Loitering On Licensed Premises; Exceptions:
      1.   Loitering Prohibitions: No person under the age of twenty one (21)
years unaccompanied by his or her parents or legal guardian and no person who
is intoxicated, a known narcotic addict or insane person, shall be permitted in
or to loiter about any licensed premises; provided, however, that this
subsection shall not apply to hotels, restaurants where regular meals are being
served, stores, clubs, bowling alleys, etc.
      2.   Intoxicated Persons: No licensee shall sell, give or deliver
alcoholic liquor to any minor or to any intoxicated person, or to any person
known by him to be declared mentally incompetent by a court.
   C.   Misrepresentation Of Age: It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor in any tavern or other place in the
village where alcoholic liquor is sold.
   D.   Adult Shall Not Give Or Sell: It shall be unlawful for any adult to
give, sell or deliver to any minor, directly or indirectly, any alcoholic
liquor.
   E.   Employee Of Class B Licensee: No provision of this section shall
prevent an employee of a class B licensee from handling alcoholic beverages in
the course of his employment, provided an adult employee of said licensee is on
the premises at the time of such sale. (Ord. 11-32, 8-15-2011)
3-2-17: PAYMENT FOR PURCHASES:
   A.   Each retail sale of alcoholic liquor except beer shall be made and
payment received by licensee or his employee, at the time of sale on the
premises of said licensee.
   B.   Treating or giving away, directly or indirectly, of any intoxicating
liquor hereunder by the holder of any license at his place of business herein,
by either himself or by and through any servant, agent, employee or person on
his behalf, is hereby prohibited. (Ord., 5-15-1967)
3-2-18: PROHIBITED ACTS OR CONDITIONS:
   A.   Consumption On Unlicensed Premises Or In Public:
      1.   No person shall bring any alcoholic liquor into any dining room of
any hotel, restaurant, clubroom or place where lunches are served, or where
soft drinks are sold or a soda fountain is operated, or into any public place
for consumption, or for use for mixing with or "spiking" any alcoholic liquor
or any other beverage whatsoever.
      2.   No owner or proprietor or agent or employee thereof of any
restaurant, store or other commercial establishment inviting or permitting
public patronage, shall permit the consumption of alcoholic liquors on the
premises except those specifically licensed for consumption on the premises. No
person shall consume any alcoholic liquor on any street, alley, sidewalk or
other public property or in any automobile or vehicle traveling upon or parked
on any street, alley or public property. (Ord., 5-15-1967)
   B.   Gambling; Immorality:
      1.   No lottery except as authorized by section 1151 of the Illinois
lottery law, game of chance, gambling or gaming device shall be kept or used in
any premises licensed hereunder nor shall any licensee permit any illegal,
disorderly or immoral practices upon the licensed premises.
      2.   No person reputed to be a gambler or having been convicted of
gambling or having any connection with any alleged gambling house shall be
granted a license to sell alcoholic liquor. (Ord., 5-15-1967; amd. 1983 Code)
3-2-19: ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS 1 :
Each and every part of "an act relating to alcoholic liquors", enacted by the
general assembly of the state, approved January 31, 1934, as the same is or may
be hereafter amended, which relates in any manner to the sale at retail of
alcoholic liquors, not heretofore used or adopted by reference or otherwise in
this chapter, is hereby adopted in this section and made a part of this
chapter, to the same extent and with the same legal effect as if fully set
forth herein, and any violation of such applicable and adopted provisions of
said act shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and be subject to
penalties herein fixed. Three (3) copies of said act shall be maintained on
file in the office of the village clerk and shall be kept available for public
use, inspection and examination. (Ord., 5-15-1967; amd. 1983 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5.
3-2-20: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
The local liquor control commissioner may suspend or revoke any license issued
under this chapter for any one or more of the following reasons:
   A.   Violations of the laws of the United States government, the laws of the
state or any of the ordinances of the village;
   B.   Knowingly permitting any violation of this chapter or any disorderly or
immoral practices upon the premises for which the license is issued;
   C.   Wilfully making any false statements as to a material fact in the
application for a license;
   D.   Failure of the licensee for any cause whatsoever, to operate and
maintain a place of business at the location and on the premises pursuant to
the purpose for which the license was issued under this chapter;
   E.   Any license issued hereunder shall be kept continuously in effect and
use in any operative business during the period for which it is issued and when
said business is abandoned, closed or for any reason becomes inoperative for a
period of thirty (30) days or more, the local liquor control commissioner, in
his discretion, may revoke said license. (Ord., 5-15-1967)
3-2-21: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the
licensee derives the right to possession of such premises, or the agent of such
owner or person, shall knowingly permit the licensee to use said licensed
premises in violation of the terms of this chapter, said owner, agent or other
person shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter to the same extent
as shall said licensee and shall be subject to the same punishment as said
licensee.
   B.   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature, constituting a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter, by any officer, director, manager or
agent or employee of any licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of
such employer or licensee and said employer or licensee shall be subject to
punishment in the same manner as if said act or omission had been done or
omitted by him personally. (Ord., 5-15-1967)
3-2-22: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined according to section
1-4-1 of this code. Revocation or suspension of a license may be in addition to
the imposition of a fine or other penalty for violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, and such revocation or suspension shall be no
defense to a prosecution for such violations. (Ord., 5-15-1967; amd. 1983 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Exemptions From Application Of Chapter
3-3-3: Uninvited Soliciting Or Peddling Prohibited; Posting Notice
3-3-4: Time Limit On Solicitation And Peddling
3-3-5: Street Intersection Solicitation Activities
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
PEDDLER: Every person who shall sell or offer for sale, barter or exchange any
goods, wares, merchandise, fruits, vegetables or produce by traveling from
place to place on, along or upon the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the
village, or who shall sell and deliver any such items from any wagon, pushcart,
automobile or other vehicle going from place to place, or who shall go about
from place to place selling and delivering any such items.
SOLICITOR: Any person engaged in any one or more of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain either for immediate or future delivery, for the
purchase of goods, wares, merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind,
character or description whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever;
   B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind or character;
   C.   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
   D.   Going upon any premises and ringing the doorbell upon or near any door,
or creating any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of engaging in any of the
activities described in subsections A through C above.
3-3-2: EXEMPTIONS FROM APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
For the purpose of this Chapter the term "solicitor" or "peddler" shall not
include any person engaged in the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain contributions on behalf of any charitable, religious,
civic, local fire or police auxiliary, school or scouting organization or any
other not-for-profit organization in good standing in the State;
   B.   Seeking to obtain signatures to petitions on political or public policy
questions or matters; or
   C.   Seeking to conduct any of the activities enumerated in Section 3-3-
1 when undertaken by any person pursuant to a previous appointment or
invitation of the party being conducted.
3-3-3: UNINVITED SOLICITING OR PEDDLING PROHIBITED; POSTING NOTICE:
   A.   No person shall engage in solicitation or peddling upon any premises or
in any dwelling house, apartment or other residence located thereon within the
Village after having been asked by the owner or occupant thereof to leave such
premises or residence, nor shall any person engage in solicitation or peddling
upon any premises or in any dwelling house, apartment or other residence
located thereon if such premises or building is posted against solicitation or
peddling by means of a notice prominently displayed, upon which is printed one
of the following:
      NO SOLICITORS OR PEDDLERS
      or
      NO TRESPASSING
   B.   The above notice shall be posted or exhibited at or near the main
entrance to the premises or on or near the main door to any dwelling or
residence thereon or at any point of approach or entry thereto.
3-3-4: TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITATION AND PEDDLING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in solicitation or peddling at
any time prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after five o'clock (5:00) P.M.,
local time, of any weekday or at any time on a Sunday or on a State or National
holiday.
3-3-5: STREET INTERSECTION SOLICITATION ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Organizations Qualifying: No charitable or not-for-profit organization
or other person shall conduct solicitation activities on or within any of the
street intersections within the Village, unless such organization shall be:
      1.   Registered with the Attorney General as a charitable organization in
the manner provided by law.
      2.   Engaged in Statewide fund-raising activities.
      3.   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during such
solicitation activity which is casually related to an act of ordinary
negligence of the soliciting agent.
      4.   Liable for any increase in the cost of liability insurance taken by
the Village with respect to said street intersection solicitation activity.
      5.   Restricted in its solicitation activities to representatives or
agents who shall be eighteen (18) years of age or more and who shall be wearing
a high visibility vest, with no more than four (4) such persons being allowed
to actually solicit on or within an intersection at any one time.
      6.   Able to first furnish a valid certificate of liability insurance
with an insurer approved by the Village naming the Village as an additional
insured with respect to such solicitation activities.
      7.   Able to first execute a hold harmless and indemnification agreement
to the Village with respect to such solicitation activities.
   B.   Permission Required: Any organization eligible to conduct solicitation
activities shall obtain permission for such solicitation from the Chief of
Police of the Village. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to see that
the applicant complies with eligibility requirements contained in subsection A
of this Section, and in addition, the Chief of Police must also find that the
locations, times and durations of proposed solicitation activity and the number
of proposed solicitors shall not result in an interference with the flow of
vehicular traffic or otherwise create a hazardous and unsafe condition at any
such street intersection. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 4
WRECKING YARDS; JUNK DEALERS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: License Application
3-4-4: License Fees, Term
3-4-5: Separate License Required
3-4-6: Display of License; Duplicates
3-4-7: Liability Insurance
3-4-8: Change of Location, Ownership
3-4-9: Hours for Business
3-4-10: Daily Record; Inspections
3-4-11: Premises, Maintenance Requirements
3-4-12: License Revocation
3-4-13: Exceptions
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words or phrases when used in this Chapter shall have the
following meanings:
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD Any property, premises, building or enclosure used in
whole or part for collecting, dismantling, salvaging or wrecking any
automobiles, trucks, vehicles or machinery to scrap or parts, or where such
items are stored incidently to these purposes or where the same are held for
sale at retail or wholesale or the business enterprise or activity wherein any
person shall be so engaged.
JUNK Any discarded material, including, but not limited to, old rope, metal,
parts of machinery, machinery, bottles, cans, glass, containers or equipment no
longer suitable for its intended use whether or not such material may be turned
to some minor, incidental or other use. Junk is further defined to include any
vehicle, car or chassis not in running order and without a current valid
license for six (6) months or longer period of time, including any vehicle in
which it is found that the engine or motor or other essential operating parts
have been removed for more than thirty (30) days or its tires have been
deflated or its wheels removed for more than seven (7) days; provided that a
vehicle which the owner proves is under actual process of repair for future
operation and which is intended for bona fide future use shall not be deemed
included in this definition.
JUNK YARD Any land area including any buildings or enclosures thereon, used in
whole or in part for the collection, dismantling, storage, assembling,
disassembling, storing, grading, piling, distribution or sale of junk.
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful after the effective date of this Chapter for any person to
operate any automobile wrecking yard or junk yard or establish a business
within the Village as a dealer in or collector of junk without having applied
for and first obtained a license from the Village to carry on such activity in
accordance with all State Statutes and Village regulations and ordinances then
in effect or to permit any person to use or occupy premises owned or controlled
by him for any of the foregoing purposes without having a current and valid
license as required in this Chapter.
3-4-3: LICENSE APPLICATION:
Each application for license shall be in writing in triplicate, upon forms
provided by the Village and signed by the person applying for such license and
said signature shall be verified by a notary public. Each application shall
contain:
   A.   An accurate description of the premises where or from which such
business will be conducted.
   B.   The complete name, address for mailing purposes and legal residence of
applicant; if applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses of all
officers and directors, the principal office address of the corporation,
reference to the date and circumstances under which the corporation was
authorized to do business in the State, the names and addresses of all
employees and agents of the corporation that may conduct part or all of the
operations in the Village and the name and address of the person upon whom
legal service of process may be made in the State upon such corporation.
   C.   The names and addresses of all persons associated with the applicant
either as business partners, partial owners of the business, employees or
agents of the applicant authorized to conduct business upon its behalf.
   D.   The nature and kind of business and the work in detail to be conducted
by the applicant, and his or its agents and employees.
   E.   The location upon the premises where any junk is or shall be located
from any building occupied, inhabited or apt to be occupied or inhabited by
persons within the Village. A drawing to scale shall accompany the application
setting forth the exact location of all buildings.
   F.   Whether applicant, any officer, employee or associate of applicant in
such business is involved in any litigation, civil or criminal, the names of
pending case, the court, jurisdiction, term and number of each, and whether or
not any fines have been levied or judgments rendered against applicant or such
persons within six (6) years prior to the date of application growing out of
any business pertaining to or related to that of a dealer in or collector of
junk.
3-4-4: LICENSE FEES, TERM:
Each application shall be accompanied by a certified check in the amount of the
required fee. The fee shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first or
initial application and three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for each renewal
thereof. Each license shall be issued for the calendar year during which
application is made, and every license shall expire December 31 of that
calendar year. Each renewal of license, unless otherwise specified in writing
by the Village President shall be subject to all of the conditions,
restrictions, regulations and terms of the original license and any license to
be renewed shall be renewed within two (2) months of expiration of the original
or the most previous license of applicant. (Ord., no date; amd. 1983 Code)
Fees collected under the licensing provisions herein shall be for general
Municipal purposes.
3-4-5: SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
A separate license shall be required for each business location, and for each
person or business entity participating in the conduct, ownership, management
or profits of such business. Partnerships shall be considered a single business
entity for this purpose.
3-4-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSE; DUPLICATES:
The license of every junk dealer or collector shall be prominently displayed at
the entrance to the premises licensed, and upon proof of loss or damage to such
license, a duplicate license shall be issued by the Village President, upon
payment by applicant of ten dollars ($10.00).
3-4-7: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Every applicant for a license to store junk or to engage as a junk dealer or
collector shall supply proof of public liability insurance for any and all
claims arising out of personal injuries or death in a sum of at least one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for each person who may be injured or
killed and three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for each public
liability insurance for claims for property damage for each accident or act for
which applicant may or might be held responsible. Such insurance shall be
written by a reputable company approved by the Village Board of Trustees.
3-4-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION, OWNERSHIP:
No person licensed under this Chapter shall engage in business as a junk dealer
or collector in any place within the Village other than at the places
designated upon his license and no license shall be transferred from one person
to another except when the ownership of the licensed premises shall change to
the person to whom the license is to be transferred. In any such case, the new
owners shall apply for a transfer of the license and pay a fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00). (Ord., no date)
3-4-9: HOURS FOR BUSINESS:
The premises shall not be open for business nor shall any work be done thereon
in connection with the storage, processing, transporting or removal of junk at
any time on Sunday, and not upon any legal holiday nor before seven o'clock (7:
00) A. M. nor after six o'clock (6:00) P. M. on any other day. (Ord., no date;
amd. 1983 Code)
3-4-10: DAILY RECORD; INSPECTIONS:
Every junk dealer or collector shall make and keep a daily record in a bound
book in which shall be written clearly in English at the time of the purchase
of any junk, a description of every article or material purchased or received
by him, the date and hour and the name and address of the person from whom the
same was purchased or received. The records shall include the manufacturer's
serial number of all motor vehicles, trucks or trailers and identical
information regarding the disposal or sale of such items. Such book and all
such junk purchased, received or handled by any licensed junk dealer or
collector at all times shall be subject to inspection by the duly constituted
police officers or other officials of the Village.
3-4-11: PREMISES, MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Every junk dealer or collector licensed under this Chapter shall constantly
maintain the licensed premises in the following manner:
   A.   The premises and all articles located thereon shall be kept in such a
manner to guarantee against the breeding of rodents and vermin and so as not to
constitute a menace to the health of the community.
   B.   No garbage nor any organic waste shall be stored on the premises past
normal times for collection thereof.
   C.   Whenever any motor vehicle shall be received on the premises as junk,
all flammable materials shall be drained and removed therefrom and no such
explosive or highly flammable materials shall be permitted to remain upon the
premises except in approved tanks buried underground.
   D.   The manner of storage, arrangement of junk and the drainage facilities
of the premises shall be such as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water
upon the premises or the runoff of liquid matter onto any adjoining premises
and also to facilitate access for firefighting purposes.
   E.   All such licensed premises shall be enclosed entirely by opaque fencing
not less than six feet (6') high and of sufficient quality to prevent minor
children and animals from entering the premises without the knowledge and
consent of the licensee. Children under the age of fourteen (14) years shall
not be permitted upon the premises licensed under this Chapter, except upon
written permission of their parents or guardian delivered previously in person
to the licensee.
   F.   Trees or shrubs shall be planted and grown in an orderly and sightly
manner around the area where junk is stored or around the fence or both as
shall be determined by the Village Trustees or their designee and set forth
upon the application or in the license or both so that the junk may not be seen
easily from any public road, dwelling, school, church or place of public
recreation. The fence, trees or shrubs shall not be closer than sixty feet
(60') from the nearest edge of any street, highway or alley and not closer than
thirty feet (30') from the nearest side of any building upon any adjoining
property, nor closer than ten feet (10') from the property lines of each
adjoining lot.
3-4-12: LICENSE REVOCATION:
The Village President shall revoke, in writing, any license upon receipt of
credible evidence that the licensee is violating any of the provisions of this
Chapter, after he has held a hearing of which the licensee shall be given not
less than forty eight (48) hours' notice.
3-4-13: EXCEPTIONS:
Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed to prohibit the usual, normal
businesses of gasoline service stations licensed by the State, bona fide
garages or repair shops. (Ord., no date)
CHAPTER 5
CLOTHES MODELING ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Intent of Chapter
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: License Required
3-5-4: Application for License
3-5-5: License Fee
3-5-6: License Issuance
3-5-7: Revocation of License
3-5-8: Prohibited Conduct
3-5-9: Penalty
3-5-1: INTENT OF CHAPTER:
It is the intent of this Chapter to provide for an effective means to monitor
and regulate clothes modeling establishments and to prevent the use of such
establishments as a pretext for lewd or indecent behavior by employees or
independent contractors of such establishments, or by members of the general
public who purchase the services of such establishments. (Ord., 6-19-89)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to this Chapter:
CLOTHES MODELING ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment wherein, as a part or whole
of its business, persons are employed to model clothes for the general public.
The "general public" means any number of persons, including one, who are
physically present at the establishment for any purpose. "Clothes" means and
includes any article or item or clothing, outer-garment, under-garment,
sleepwear, or any item designed or fashioned to be worn on a human being. For
purposes of this Chapter, jewelry shall be considered an item of clothing.
NUDITY: The lewd exposure to any person of any part of the human body including
but not limited to: female breasts, male or female genitalia, anus or anal
cleavage.
SEXUAL CONDUCT: Any conduct by a person intended to induce any person to engage
in any act of sexual contact, including sexual intercourse, oral or anal
intercourse, or masturbation.
SEXUAL CONTACT: The touching of female breasts, male or female genitalia, anus
or anal cleavage, by any person, for the purpose of sexually arousing any
person, whether male or female, whether the person touching or the person
touched. "Sexual contact" shall include any act of autoeroticism such as
masturbation. (Ord., 6-19-89)
3-5-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, including any corporation, joint venture, or
partnership, to own or engage in the business of operating a clothes modeling
establishment without having first obtained a license therefor. A new license
must be obtained for each new Village fiscal year. (Ord., 6-19-89)
3-5-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for such license shall be made to the Village Clerk. The
application shall contain the following:
   A.   Name of the person, joint venture, partnership or corporation making
the application.
   B.   The name of the owner of the property on which the business will be
operated, and the name, business and telephone number of the persons, including
the corporate officer, responsible for operation of the business.
   C.   The address where the business will be operated, including the location
of the clothes modeling establishment.
   D.   A statement as to whether the application is for an existing business
or a new business.
   E.   A specification of what kinds of clothes will be modeled at the
facility and the number of employees anticipated to be working there. (Ord., 6-
19-1989)
3-5-5: LICENSE FEE:
The applicant shall pay an annual fee of one thousand two hundred dollars
($1,200.00) when the application is submitted. Such fee shall be due on or
before May 1 of each year. Any applicant who makes application after May 1 for
the year in question shall be required to pay the entire fee, no matter when in
the year he makes application, except for licenses purchased prior to July 1,
1989, shall be in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord., 6-19-
1989)
3-5-6: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
Upon receipt of the application fee and the application, the village clerk
shall issue the license to the applicant if the business is already in
operation as of the effective date of this chapter, or if the applicant has
already obtained a license for a clothes modeling establishment in the prior
year. When the application is not for renewal, but for a new license, and the
business was not in operation before the effective date of this chapter, the
village clerk shall refer the applications to the police chief, who shall make
inquiry into whether the applicant or the manager of the establishment, or any
employees of the establishment have ever been convicted of a felony or theft
under the laws of the state of Illinois or other jurisdiction. If no such
convictions are disclosed in the police chief's investigation, the village
president shall issue the license within one month after it was submitted to
the village clerk. (Ord. 11-28, 8-15-2011)
3-5-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   All persons operating or owning a clothes modeling establishment within
the village will comply with all federal, state and local laws, which in any
manner relate to the operating or ownership of the establishment. In
particular, licensee and its agents or employees shall not violate any of the
provisions prohibiting nudity, sexual contact or sexual conduct as set out in
this chapter.
   B.   When any village officer or employee becomes aware that a clothes
modeling establishment has violated any Herscher ordinance or other local,
state or federal law, he shall forthwith inform the village president of the
violation. At his discretion, the village president may call a hearing to
determine whether the license of the establishment should be suspended or
revoked. If the village president decides to call such a hearing, he will act
as hearing officer. The person named as owner or manager of the establishment
in the license application form shall be notified by certified mail, return
receipt requested, or by personal service, of the date that the hearing is set
for and the nature of the charges lodged against the establishment, its agents
or employees. In no event shall the hearing date be less than seven (7) days
after service of such notice upon the owner or manager of the establishment. At
the hearing the village and the owner or manager may present evidence relating
to anything relevant to the question as to whether a violation has occurred.
All evidence shall be presented in accordance with the rules of evidence as set
out by the Illinois administrative review act. If the village proves by a
preponderance of the evidence that the charged violation or violations took
place, the village president shall determine whether the license should be
suspended or revoked.
   C.   If the president revokes a license, the licensee may file a written
appeal with the Herscher plan commission. The appeal shall be filed with the
village clerk within thirty (30) days after the president sends notice of his
decision of revocation or suspension to the owner or manager of the
establishment. The village clerk shall forward the appeal to the Herscher plan
commission. The licensee may appear before the commission to present his
reasons why his license should not be revoked or suspended. Upon hearing all
the evidence, the commission shall forward to the village board its finding,
recommending approval or disapproval of the revocation or suspension, as the
case may be. If the village board, by majority vote, approves the revocation or
suspension, the license shall remain revoked as of the date of the president's
action or suspended immediately. If the board disapproves the revocation or
suspension, the license shall be reinstated as of the date of the board's
action or not suspended. The board shall act within forty five (45) days of the
plan commission's recommendation as to whether or not to approve the revocation
or suspension. (Ord., 6-19-1989)
3-5-8: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   Employees: No employee, agent, patron or independent contractor of a
clothes modeling establishment shall engage in an act of nudity or appear nude
before any person within a clothes modeling establishment. No employee, agent,
patron or independent contractor of a modeling establishment shall participate
in any sexual contact, wherein he or she comes in contact with any other person
or any other person comes in contact with him or her. No employee, agent,
patron or independent contractor of a clothes modeling establishment shall
engage in sexual conduct of any type with or in the presence of any other
person; nor shall such employee, agent, patron or independent contractor by any
means stimulate or induce any other person to engage in sexual conduct or
sexual contact within the establishment.
   B.   Manager: It is unlawful for any owner or manager of such an
establishment to knowingly allow any nudity, sexual contact or sexual conduct
to occur within the establishment. (Ord., 6-19-1989)
3-5-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), and shall further be subject to
having the license of the clothes modeling establishment revoked or suspended
as provided herein. (Ord., 6-19-1989)
CHAPTER 6
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Registration Of Telecommunications Providers
3-6-3: Municipal Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
3-6-4: Collection, Enforcement, And Administration
3-6-5: Compliance With Other Laws
3-6-6: Existing Franchises And Licenses
3-6-7: Penalties
3-6-8: Enforcement
3-6-9: Severability
3-6-10: Conflict
3-6-11: Waiver And Fee Implementation
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
GROSS CHARGES: The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the village,
and for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether
paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services, and property of
every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account
of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor
or service costs, or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended,
the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the village, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
the village, and charges for that portion of the interstate interoffice channel
provided within the village. However, "gross charges" shall not include:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made under:
1) the fee imposed by this chapter, 2) additional charges added to a
purchaser's bill under section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public utilities act, 3)
amounts collected under section 8-11-17 of the Illinois municipal code, 4) the
tax imposed by the telecommunications excise tax act, 5) 911 surcharges, or 6)
the tax imposed by section 4251 of the internal revenue code;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside the
village;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or information
intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes, but is not
limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing equipment,
tabulating equipment, or accounting equipment and also includes the usage of
computers under a time sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified under section 9-222.1 of the
public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during the period of
time specified by the village;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit other than a regulatory required
profit for the corporation rendering such services;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunications
devices; or
   I.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
to the village.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any municipal street, alley, water or public right of way
dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility easements
wherein the village has acquired the right and authority to locate or permit
the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
"Public Right-of-Way" shall not include any real or personal village property
that is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not
include village buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether they are situated in the public right of way.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within the state of
Illinois, directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities,
transmission facilities, sales office, warehouse, or other place of business,
or any agent or other representative operating within this state under the
authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place
of business or agent or other representative is located here permanently or
temporarily, or whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business
in this state.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air to ground
systems, and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of the
customer's primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the
location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, "telecommunications" shall also include wireless telecommunications
as hereinafter defined. "Telecommunications" shall not include value added
services in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other than
transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by him or her to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the end to end communications. Retailer
access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of intercompany
facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and
used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end telecommunications
service shall not be included in gross charges as sales for resale.
"Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of cable services through
a cable system as defined in the cable communications act of 1984 (47 USC
section 521 and following) as now or hereafter amended or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the village
through an open video system as defined in the rules of the federal
communications commission (47 CDF 76.1550 and following) as now or hereafter
amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER:
   A.   Any telecommunications retailer; and
   B.   Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs,
owns, operates or controls equipment in the public right of way that is used or
designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER OR RETAILER OR CARRIER: Means and includes every
person engaged in the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail
as defined in this section. The village may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction
of the village, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of
the fee. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to pay the
fee upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business
within the village.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes cellular mobile telephone services,
personal wireless services as defined in section 704(C) of the
telecommunications act of 1996 (public law no. 104-104), 42 USC section 332(c)
(7), as now or hereafter amended, including all commercial mobile radio
services, and paging services. (Ord. 99-1, 3-1-1999)
3-6-2: REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS:
   A.   Every "telecommunications provider" as defined by this chapter shall
register with the village within thirty (30) days after the effective date of
this chapter or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on
a form to be provided by the village, provided, however, that any
telecommunications retailer that has filed a return pursuant to subsection
3-6-4C of this chapter shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with
this section.
   B.   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the village
pursuant to subsection A of this section has an affirmative duty to submit an
amended registration form or current return as required by subsection
3-6-4C of this chapter, as the case may be, to the village within thirty (30)
days from the date of the occurrence of any changes in the information provided
by the telecommunications provider in the registration form or most recent
return on file with the village. (Ord. 99-1, 3-1-1999)
3-6-3: MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE:
   A.   A village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of four percent
(4%) of all gross charges charged by the telecommunications retailer to service
addresses within the village for telecommunications originating or received in
the village. (Ord. 99-1, 3-1-1999; amd. Ord. 04-4, 1-19-2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
   B.   Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized in this chapter, the village infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all
public rights of way within the village by telecommunications retailers.
Imposition of the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this chapter
does not, however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or
imposition of any fees otherwise authorized by law.
   C.   The village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized by this section shall be collected, enforced, and administered as
set forth in section
3-6-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 99-1, 3-1-1999)
3-6-4: COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT, AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the village infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer's service address.
   B.   Unless otherwise approved by the village board of trustees, the
infrastructure maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications
retailer to the village not later than the last day of the month subsequent to
the month in which a bill is issued to the customer; provided, however, that
the telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed two percent
(2%) of the village infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse
itself for expenses incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
   C.   Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to the village shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the village treasurer,
which shall contain such information as the village treasurer may reasonably
require.
   D.   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected pursuant to
this chapter and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected by such
telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the village. The charge imposed under subsection
A of this section by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to this chapter
shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who
provides such services until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the
same manner as the original charge for such services.
   E.   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee has
been paid that was not due under the provisions of this chapter, whether as a
result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become due,
under this chapter, from the telecommunications retailer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, however, the village treasurer may request, and
telecommunications retailer shall provide, written substantiation for such
credit. However, no claim for such credit may be made more than three (3) years
after the date of the erroneous payment unless: 1) the credit is used only to
offset a claim of underpayment made by the village within the applicable
statutory period of limitations, and 2) the credit derives from an overpayment
made by the same telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory
period of limitations.
   F.   Amounts paid under this chapter by telecommunications retailers shall
not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as described
immediately below:
      1.   "Gross charges" for purposes of the telecommunications excise tax
act;
      2.   "Gross receipts" for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in section 8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code;
      3.   "Gross charges" for purposes of the municipal telecommunications tax
as prescribed in section 8-11-17 of the Illinois municipal code;
      4.   "Gross revenue" for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities prescribed in section 2-202 of the public utilities act.
   G.   The village shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit the books
and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this chapter to
determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly accounted to the
village for the village infrastructure maintenance fee. Any underpayment of the
amount of the village infrastructure maintenance fee due to the village by the
telecommunications retailer shall be paid to the village plus five percent (5%)
of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit, plus any costs
incurred by the village in conducting the audit, in an amount not to exceed
five percent (5%) of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an
audit. Said sum shall be paid to the village within twenty one (21) days after
the date of issuance of an invoice for same.
   H.   The village treasurer, or his or her designee, may promulgate such
further or additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement
of this chapter, consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time
to time and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered
pursuant to section
3-6-2 of this chapter of such regulations. (Ord. 99-1, 3-1-1999)
3-6-5: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS:
Nothing in this chapter shall excuse any person or entity from obligations
imposed under any law, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Generally applicable taxes; and
   B.   Standards for construction on, over, under, or within, use of or repair
of the public rights of way, including standards relating to freestanding
towers and other structures upon the public rights of way, as provided; and
   C.   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under, or
within, use of or repair of the public rights of way; and
   D.   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this code concerning uses
or structures not located on, over, or within the right of way. (Ord. 99-1, 3-
1-1999)
3-6-6: EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES:
Any franchise, license, or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the village entered into before the effective date of this
chapter regarding the use of public rights of way shall remain valid according
to and for their stated terms except for any fees, charges or other
compensation to the extent waived. (Ord. 99-1, 3-1-1999)
3-6-7: PENALTIES:
Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of this code. (Ord.
99-1, 3-1-1999)
3-6-8: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 99-1, 3-1-1999)
3-6-9: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof. (Ord. 99-1, 3-1-1999)
3-6-10: CONFLICT:
This chapter supersedes all chapters or parts of chapters adopted prior hereto
which are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict. (Ord. 99-1, 3-
1-1999)
3-6-11: WAIVER AND FEE IMPLEMENTATION:
   A.   The village hereby waives all fees, charges, and other compensation
that may accrue, after the effective date of the waiver, to the village by a
telecommunications retailer pursuant to any existing village franchise,
license, or similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer during the
time the village imposes the telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee.
This waiver shall only be effective during the time the infrastructure
maintenance fee provided for in this chapter is subject to being lawfully
imposed on the telecommunications retailer and collected by the
telecommunications retailer from the customer.
   B.   The village clerk shall send a notice of the waiver by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to each telecommunications retailer with whom the
village has a franchise.
   C.   The village infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this chapter
shall become effective and imposed on the first day of the month not less than
ninety (90) days after the village provides written notice by certified mail to
each telecommunications retailer with whom the village has an existing
franchise, license, or similar agreement that the village waives all
compensation under such existing franchise, license, or similar agreement
during such time as the fee is subject to being lawfully imposed and collected
by the retailer and remitted to the village. The infrastructure maintenance fee
shall apply to gross charges billed on or after the effective date as
established in the preceding sentence. (Ord. 99-1, 3-1-1999)
CHAPTER 7
PYROTECHNIC DISPLAYS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Title
3-7-2: Definitions
3-7-3: Permit Required
3-7-4: Licensed Operator
3-7-5: Insurance
3-7-6: Inspection
3-7-7: Statutes Adopted
3-7-8: Violation; Penalty
3-7-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 06-10,
8-21-2006)
3-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the following meanings as defined herein:
1.3G FIREWORKS: Fireworks that are used for professional outdoor displays and
classified as fireworks UN0333, UN0334 or UN0335 by the United States
department of transportation under 49 CFR 172.101.
BATFE: The federal bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms enforcement.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS: Fireworks that must comply with the construction, chemical
composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. consumer products safety
commission, as set forth in 16 CFR parts 1500 and 1507, and classified as
fireworks UN0336 or UN0337 by the United States department of transportation
under 49 CFR 172.101. "Consumer fireworks" does not include a substance or
article exempted under the fireworks use act 1 .
DISPLAY FIREWORKS: 1.3G or special effects fireworks.
FACILITY: An area being used for the conducting of pyrotechnic display
business, but does not include residential premises except for the portion of
any residential premises that is actually used in the conduct of a pyrotechnic
display business.
FIREWORKS: The meaning given to that term in the fireworks use act 2 .
FLAME EFFECT: The detonation, ignition, or deflagration of flammable gases,
liquids, or special materials to produce a thermal, physical, visual or audible
effect before the public, invitees, or licensees, regardless of whether
admission is charged in accordance with NFPA (National Fire Protection
Association) 160.
LEAD PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR: The individual with overall responsibility for the
safety, setup, discharge, and supervision of a pyrotechnic display.
OFFICE: Office of the state fire marshal.
PERSON: An individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, company,
consortium, joint venture, commercial entity, state, municipality, or political
subdivision of a state or any agency department, or instrumentality of the
United States and any officer, agent, or employee of these entities.
PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY OR DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS: The detonation, ignition,
deflagration of display fireworks or flame effects to produce a visual or
audible effect of an exhibitional nature before the public invitees, or
licensees, regardless of whether admission is charged.
PYROTECHNIC DISTRIBUTOR: Any person, company, association, group of persons, or
corporations which distributes display fireworks for sale in the state of
Illinois or provides them as part of a pyrotechnic display service in the state
of Illinois.
SPECIAL EFFECTS FIREWORKS: Pyrotechnic devices used for special effects by
professionals in the performing arts in conjunction with theatrical, musical,
or other productions that are similar to consumer fireworks in chemical
composition and construction, but are not intended for consumer use and are not
labeled as such or identified as "intended for consumer use". "Special effects
fireworks" are classified as fireworks under UN0431 or UN0432 of the United
States department of transportation under 49 CFR 172.101. (Ord. 06-10, 8-21-
2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 425 ILCS 35.
2 1. 425 ILCS 35.
3-7-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A pyrotechnic display permit issued by the village of Herscher shall be
required when any person sells fireworks or conducts or engages in a
pyrotechnic display or a display of fireworks in the village of Herscher. Any
person desiring to stage a pyrotechnic display or display of fireworks must
submit a written application to the village of Herscher for a permit to conduct
or stage a pyrotechnic display or display of fireworks at least fifteen (15)
days in advance of the date of the proposed pyrotechnic or display of
fireworks.
   A.   Any permit issued by the village of Herscher for the pyrotechnic
display or a display fireworks shall not be transferable to another person or
entity. The sale, possession, use and distribution of display fireworks for
display are lawful only for the purpose given by the application for the
permit. (Ord. 06-10, 8-21-2006)
3-7-4: LICENSED OPERATOR:
Any pyrotechnic display service must be provided by a pyrotechnic distributor
licensed by the state of Illinois and any such pyrotechnic display or display
of fireworks must be conducted by a licensed "lead pyrotechnic operator" as
defined in this chapter. (Ord. 06-10, 8-21-2006)
3-7-5: INSURANCE:
Any person wishing to conduct or stage a pyrotechnic display or a display of
fireworks must provide to the village of Herscher proof of liability insurance
in an amount not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) with an
insurance company authorized to do business in the state of Illinois. (Ord. 06-
10, 8-21-2006)
3-7-6: INSPECTION:
Not less than twenty four (24) hours prior to the proposed pyrotechnic display
or display of fireworks, the fire chief of the fire protection district in
which the village of Herscher is located, or his or her designee, must inspect
the proposed display site and ensure that the display can be performed in full
compliance with NFPA (National Fire Protection Association) standards adopted
and amended by the OSFM rules part 2.35 for the type of pyrotechnic display or
fireworks display to be performed. The chief of said fire department providing
fire protection must sign the display permit issued by the village of Herscher.
(Ord. 06-10, 8-21-2006)
3-7-7: STATUTES ADOPTED:
All provisions of the fireworks use act 1  and the pyrotechnic distributor and
operator licensing act 2  are hereby adopted and are incorporated in this
chapter by reference. (Ord. 06-10, 8-21-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 425 ILCS 35.
2 2. 225 ILCS 227.
3-7-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be fined five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each violation of this chapter and sentenced to a term of
not less than six (6) months in the Kankakee County jail. (Ord. 06-10, 8-21-
2006)
CHAPTER 8
LICENSES FOR RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: Raffle Licensing Commissioner
3-8-3: License Required
3-8-4: Qualification Of Licensee; Ineligibility For License
3-8-5: Annual Report Of License Authority
3-8-6: Application For License; Fee
3-8-7: Contents Of License
3-8-8: Terms Of License
3-8-9: Display Of License
3-8-10: Conduct Of Raffles
3-8-11: Inspections
3-8-12: Raffles Manager
3-8-13: Records And Reports
3-8-14: Issuance, Suspension And Revocation Of License
3-8-15: Responsibility For Violations
3-8-16: Penalties
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION: An organization of persons having a common interest,
the primary interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and
to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the
burden of government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by
government.
LICENSEE: Any person or club holding license under the provisions of this
chapter.
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of the raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
RAFFLE: A form of "lottery" as defined in section 28-2{'{'}b) of the Illinois
criminal code as amended, (720 ILCS 5/28-2(b) conducted by an organization
licensed under this chapter, in which:
   A.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
presented and differentiated by a number or by any combination of numbers, or
by some other medium, one (1) or more of which chance is to be designated the
winning chance.
   B.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by other
method based upon an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part of
persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except the winning chance
shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
Raffle does not include a saving promotion raffle authorized under section 5g
of the Illinois banking act, section 7008 of the savings bank act, section 4207
of the Illinois credit union act, section 5136B of the national banking act (12
USC 25a) or section 4 of the home owners' loan act (12 USC 1463).
RAFFLES AND POKER RUNS ACT: The statute entitled "raffles and poker runs act"
which is known as 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et. seq. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
3-8-2: RAFFLE LICENSING COMMISSIONER:
The president of the village board of the Village of Herscher or the designee
of said president shall be the raffle licensing commissioner. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-
2023)
3-8-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
There is hereby authorized the issuance of licenses for the purpose of
conducting raffles in the village in conformance of the raffles and poker runs
act of the State of Illinois (230 ILCS 15/1 et. seq). (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
3-8-4: QUALIFICATION OF LICENSEE ; INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
   A.   A license shall be issued only to a bona fide fraternal organization
which operated without profit to their members and has been in existence
continuously for a period of twelve (12) months immediately before making an
application for a license and which has had, during the entire five (5) year
period, a bonafide membership, engaged in carrying out their objects, and as
further defined in the Illinois raffles and poker runs act. (230 ILCS 15/12b)
   B.   The following person or entities are ineligible for any license under
this chapter:
      1.   Any person whose felony conviction will impair the person's ability
to engage in the licensed position.
      2.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or promoter.
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character.
      4.   Any firm or corporation which a person defined in subsections 1. 2,
or 3 above if this section has a proprietary, legal or equitable interest in or
which the person is active or employed.
      5.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection 1, 2, or 3
is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or not.
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection 1, 2, or 3
of this subsection is to participate in the management or operation of a
raffle, as defined in ths chapter.
   C.   Applicant Convictions: The licensing authority shall not require any
applicant to report the following information and shall not consider the
following criminal history records in connection with an application for
license:
      1.   Juvenile adjudications of delinquent minors as defined in section 5-
105 of the juvenile court act of 1987, subject to the restrictions set forth in
section 5-130 of said act.
      2.   Law enforcement records, court records and conviction records of an
individual who as seventeen (17) years of age at the time of the offense and
before January 1, 2014, unless the nature of the offense required the
individual to be tried as an adult.
      3.   Records of arrest not followed by a conviction.
      4.   Convictions overturned by a higher court.
      5.   Convictions or arrests that have been expunged or sealed.
   D.   Effect Of Criminal Convictions: The licensing authority, upon a finding
that an applicant for a license was previously convicted of a felony shall
consider any evidence of rehabilitation and mitigating factors contained in the
applicant's record to determine if the conviction will impair the ability of
the applicant to engage in the position for which a license is sought. In
making the decision the licensing authority shall consider the following:
      1.   The lack of direct relation of the offense for which the applicant
was previously convicted to the duties, functions and responsibilities of the
position for which a license is sought;
      2.   Whether five (5) years since a felony conviction of three (3) years
since release from confinement fo the conviction, whichever is later, have
passed without a subsequent conviction;
      3.   If the applicant was previously licensed or employed in ths state or
other states or jurisdictions, then the lack of prior misconduct arising from
or related to the licensed position or position of employment;
      4.   The age of the person at the time of the criminal offense;
      5.   Successful completion of sentence and, for applicants serving a term
of parole or probation, a progress report provided by the applicant's probation
of parole officer that documents the applicant's compliance with conditions of
supervision;
      5.   Evidence of the applicants present fitness and professional
character;
      6.   Evidence of rehabilitation or rehabilitative effort during or after
incarceration, or during or after a term of supervision, including but not
limited to a certificate of good conduct under section 5 5.5-25 of the unified
code of corrections or a certificate of relief from disabilities under section
5 -5.5-10 of the unified code of corrections; and;
      7.   Any other mitigating factors that contribute to the person's
potential and current ability to perform the duties and responsibilities of the
position for which a license or employment is sought.
   E.   Denial Of License: If the licensing authority refuse to issues a
license to an applicant, the authority shall provide written notice to the
applicant of the denial including basis for the denial:
      1.   A statement about the decision to refuse to issue a license;
      2.   A list of the convictions that the licensing authority determined
will impair the applicant"s ability to engage in the position for which a
license is sought;
      3.   A list of convictions which formed the sole or partial basis fo the
refusal to issue a license; and
      4.   A summary of the appeal process or the earliest that an applicant
may reapply for a license, whichever is applicable. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
3-8-5: ANNUAL REPORT OF LICENSE AUTHORITY:
No later than May 1 of each year, the licensing authority must prepare,
publicly announce and publish a report of summary statistical information
relating to new and renewal license applications during the preceding calendar
year. Each report shall show, at a minimum:
   A.   The number of applicants for a new or renewal license within the
previous calendar year;
   B.   The number of applicants for a new or renewal license within the
previous calendar year who had any criminal conviction;
   C.   The number of applicants for a new or renewal license in the previous
calendar year who were granted a license:
   D.   The number of applicants for anew or renewal license with a criminal
conviction who were granted a license within th previous calendar year;
   E.   The number of applicants for a new license with a criminal conviction
who were denied a license in the previous calendar year in whole or in part
because of a prior criminal conviction. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
3-8-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   Any applicant for a license shall apply for the license in writing and
file the application with the village clerk. The filing fee for each license
shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for an annual license and five dollars
($5.00) for any license for not more than three (3) events. Said fee shall be
paid at the time of the filing of the application. All fund received as the
result of the application shall be deposited in the general fund of the
village.
   B.   The application for license shall specify the location in which raffle
chances are to be sold or issued, the time and determination of winning changes
and the location or locations at which winning chances shall be determined
number or frequency of events at which the winning chances shall be determined.
The application will further specify an individual who shall be designated as
the registered agent for the purposes of legal responsibility for the conduct
of said raffle.
   C.   The application for license shall be completed in its entirety and must
include a sworn statement attesting to the not-for profit legal status of the
prospective licensed organization signed the presiding officer and secretary of
the organization and must include authorization to conduct a background check
including credit information and criminal history.
   D.   The application shall also contain a written acknowledgment signed by
the presiding officer and secretary of the organization which shall acknowledge
that the applicant is holding the Village, its officers, board members,
attorneys and all other agents harmless frm any claim or cause of action
(whether state of federal) for an injury, claims or damages arising out of or
in any way related to the subject raffle for to any property (real and/or
personal) conveyed by the licensee pursuant to any raffle.
   E.   The raffle commissioner shall review the applications and shall act
upon the application withing thirty (30) days of receipt of the application.
Any additional information which may be required and requested shall extend the
time for response to the application to thirty (30) days from the response to
said request. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
3-8-7: CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
A license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall state the
name, address, phone numbers, email addresses of the licensee, the address of
the premises for which the licenses is granted and the dates of the issuance
and expiration of the license. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
3-8-8: TERMS OF LICENSE:
Annual licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid from May 1 to
the following April 30. Individual licenses shall be valid for not more than
three (3) dates which dates shall be specified on the face of the license.
(Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
3-8-9: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Upon issuance, the license shall be displayed at the premises where the winning
chances will be determined. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
3-8-10: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
The conducting of raffles shall be subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization licensed to conduct the game.
   B.   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   C.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of a raffle.
   D.   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning chance
or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed under
this chapter.
   E.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only with the areas specified on
the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license for a raffle.
   F.   A person under the age of eighteen (18) may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances only with permission of a parent or guardian.
A person under the age of eighteen (18) may be within the area where winning
chances in a raffle are being determined only when accompanied by his parent or
guardian. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
3-8-11: INSPECTIONS:
Licensees shall make all premises named in the license issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter available for inspection by the local raffle
commissioner, board member of the village, duly appointed police officers of
the village and other officers designated by the village president to conduct
inspections and observations pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
3-8-12: RAFFLES MANAGER:
All operations of and the conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision of
a single raffles manager designated by the organization. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
3-8-13: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
   A.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning games are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, description of the
purchased item of service or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient.
The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount
and date of payment.
   B.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo receipts,
if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization pursuant
to a license therefor being issued by the department of revenue of the State of
Illinois, and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have
separate records of its raffles.
   C.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report promptly
after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership, and to the raffle
licensing commissioner, its gross receipts, expenses and net proceed from
raffles, and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as required in this
section.
   D.   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three (3)
years, and the organization shall make available their records relating to the
operation of raffles for public inspection at a reasonable time and place.
(Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
3-8-14: ISSUANCE, SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The raffle licensing commissioner may issue, revoke, or suspend any
license in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or on the basis or
provisions of any State of Illinois law pertaining to raffles.
   B.   Any raffle license may be suspended or revoked for any violation of
this chapter, or any other village ordinance, or any violation of the Illinois
raffles and poker runs act, or any other applicable state statutes.
   C.   When any licensee shall have its license revoked for any cause, no
license shall be granted for a period of one (1) year thereafter. (Ord. 23-01,
1-3-2023)
3-8-15: RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager, or
other agent of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
employer or licensee, and said employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if said act or omission had been done or omitted by him
personally.
   B.   Any person or organization who is licensed by the village for the
purposes of selling raffle chances shall be deemed to be licensed within the
Village for the purposes of selling or offering for sale any raffle chance.
(Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
3-8-16: PENALTIES:
Any person or organization that is convicted of violating any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
Each day any person or organization violates or continues to violate any
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense. Suspension or
revocation of a license may be in addition to the imposition of a fine or other
such penalty for the conviction of a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, and suspension or revocation shall be no defense to a prosecution for
such violations. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
TITLE 4
POLICE REGULATIONS
Misdemeanor Offenses   1
Minors   2
Dogs And Other Animals   3
Truancy   4
Personal Poultry   5
CHAPTER 1
MISDEMEANOR OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Assault
4-1-2: Battery
4-1-3: Public Intoxication
4-1-4: Reckless Conduct
4-1-5: Disorderly Conduct
4-1-6: Sex Offenses (Rep. by Ord. 11-22, 8-15-2011)
4-1-7: Throwing Stones Or Missiles
4-1-8: Debris On Public Ways
4-1-9: Mob Action; Failure Or Refusal To Withdraw (Rep. by Ord. 11-30, 8-15-
2011)
4-1-10: Gambling
4-1-1: ASSAULT:
A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he engages in
conduct which places another in unreasonable apprehension of receiving a
battery. If any person shall be guilty of an assault within the village, such
person shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined according to the provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1983 Code)
4-1-2: BATTERY:
A person commits battery if he intentionally or knowingly without legal
justification and by any means:
   A.   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
   B.   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual.
If any person shall be guilty of any battery within the village, such person
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined according to the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (1983 Code)
4-1-3: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
Any person found in a state of intoxication in any street, avenue, alley,
highway or thoroughfare or other public place shall be guilty of public
intoxication. (1983 Code)
4-1-4: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
A person who causes bodily harm to or endangers the bodily safety of an
individual by any means, commits reckless conduct if he performs recklessly the
acts which cause harm or endanger safety, whether they otherwise are lawful or
unlawful. If any person shall be guilty of reckless conduct within the village,
such person shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined according to the
provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (1983 Code)
4-1-5: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   Generally: It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to
engage in any type of disorderly conduct within the village as further defined.
   B.   Definitions: Any of the following acts shall, when committed within the
village, be considered as disorderly conduct:
      1.   To make, aid, countenance or assist in making any improper voice,
riot, disturbance, breach of the peace or diversion tending to a breach of the
peace in the streets or elsewhere in the village.
      2.   To collect with others in groups or crowds for unlawful purposes or
for any purpose, to the annoyance or disturbance of citizens or travelers.
      3.   To provoke a breach of the peace, or to use any violent,
threatening, profane or indecent language to the disturbance of any person, or
to use any threatening or abusive language toward any other person.
      4.   To be openly lewd or do any act of public indecency tending to
debauch the public morals.
      5.   To interrupt or disturb any lawful assembly or procession of people
met for a lawful purpose.
      6.   To injure, beat, torture or kill any animal or knowingly allow same
to be done to any animal under one's personal control, unless such is necessary
to protect the health or safety of oneself or another.
      7.   To injure, destroy or deface or assist in injuring, destroying or
defacing any building, structure, bridge, fence, street, sidewalk, hydrant,
streetlight, sign or property of any type.
      8.   To make or cause to be made any annoying, obscene or disturbing
phone calls.
      9.   To transmit in any manner to the fire department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
fire exists.
      10.   To transmit in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect
that a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that
its explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or
explosive is concealed in such place.
      11.   To transmit in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such an offense has been committed. (1983 Code)
4-1-6: SEX OFFENSES:
(Rep. by Ord. 11-22, 8-15-2011)
4-1-7: THROWING STONES OR MISSILES:
No person shall throw, shoot or cast any stone or any other missile upon or at
any building or tree or other public or private property, or upon or at any
person in any street, avenue, alley, public place or enclosed or unenclosed
ground in the village, or aid or abet in the same. (1983 Code)
4-1-8: DEBRIS ON PUBLIC WAYS:
No person shall place or throw any stone or sticks, logs, stumps, manure or
other articles, rubbish or materials in, over or upon any street, avenue, alley
or highway of this village so as to obstruct the travel, endanger life or limb
or the injury or destruction of property, or throw or deposit manure, ashes,
dirt or rubbish of any kind in the gutters of the village. (1983 Code)
4-1-9: MOB ACTION; FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO WITHDRAW:
(Rep. by Ord. 11-30, 8-15-2011)
4-1-10: GAMBLING:
   A.   Definitions:
   GAMBLING DEVICE: Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machine or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill or
upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost, or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A gambling device does
not include:
      1.   A coin in the slot operated mechanical device played for amusement
which rewards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which
device is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operation
thereof depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the
player thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property.
      2.   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard.
      3.   Any video gaming terminals or devices as defined in the Illinois
video gaming act 1  and which are licensed by the Illinois gaming board under
the Illinois video gaming act 2 .
   LOTTERY: Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed
by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale or some other name.
   POLICY GAME: Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property or evidence of debt 3 . (1983 Code; amd. Ord. 12-10, 8-
20-2012)
   B.   Gambling Prohibited:
      1.   A person commits gambling, which shall be a violation of this code,
when he:
         a.   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing of
value.
         b.   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest or any
political nomination, appointment or election.
         c.   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures or distributes any gambling
device.
         d.   Contracts to have or give himself or another the option to buy or
sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any grain or other
commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, where it is at
the time of such contract intended by both parties thereto that the contract to
buy or sell, or the option, whenever exercised, or the contract resulting
therefrom, shall be settled, not by the receipt or delivery of such property,
but by the payment only of differences in prices thereof. However, the
issuance, purchase, sale, exercise, endorsement or guarantee, by or through a
person registered with the secretary of state pursuant to 815 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8 or by or through a person exempt from such registration under such
section, of a put, call or other option to buy or sell securities which have
been registered with the secretary of state or which are exempt from such
registration under 815 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3 is not gambling within
the meaning of this paragraph.
         e.   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered, or
knowingly possesses any money which he has received in the course of a bet or
wager.
         f.   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or
chance, political nomination, appointment or election.
         g.   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket slip, record, document or
other similar device.
         h.   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game or drafts, prints
or publishes any lottery ticket or share, or any policy ticket, slip, record,
document or similar device, or any advertisement of any lottery or policy
games.
         i.   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means, or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information, except that nothing in this paragraph prohibits
transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting of
sporting events or contests.
      2.   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be
convicted of gambling:
         a.   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of
chance including, without limitation, contracts of indemnity or guaranty and
life or health or accident insurance.
         b.   Offers of prizes, awards or compensation to the actual
contestants in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed,
strength or endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such
contest.
         c.   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of Illinois.
         d.   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside Illinois when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law.
         e.   The game commonly known as "bingo" when conducted in accordance
with "an act making lawful the conducting of bingo by certain nonprofit
organizations, requiring licensing and prescribing regulations thereof" 4 .
         f.   Lotteries when conducted by the state of Illinois in accordance
with the "Illinois lottery law" 5 .
         g.   In prosecutions under subsection B1 of this section,
circumstantial evidence shall have the same validity and weight as in any
criminal prosecution 6 . (1983 Code)
         h.   Any person using a video gaming terminal or device as defined in
the Illinois video gaming act 4  in any location licensed for the operation of
such video gaming terminals or devices by the Illinois gaming board under the
Illinois video gaming act 5 . (Ord. 12-10, 8-20-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., or any successor statute.
2 2. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., or any successor statute.
3 3. 230 ILCS 25/1 et seq.
4 1. 230 ILCS 25/1 et seq.
5 2. 20 ILCS 1605/1 et seq.
6 3. 720 ILCS 5/28-1.
4 4. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., or any successor statute.
5 5. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., or any successor statute.
CHAPTER 2
MINORS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Curfew
4-2-2: Parental Responsibility
4-2-3: Possession Of Tobacco Products By Minors Prohibited
4-2-4: Effective Date
4-2-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Curfew: It shall be unlawful for a person less than seventeen (17)
years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly, building, business,
street, highway or other public place or way at the following times: (Ord. 08-
9, 8-18-2008)
      1.   For persons less than thirteen (13) years of age, between nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day on any day of
the week. (Ord. 04-10, 12-6-2004)
      2.   For persons at least thirteen (13) years, but not yet seventeen (17)
years of age:
         a.   Between nine thirty o'clock (9:30) P.M. on Sunday through
Thursday, inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day.
         b.   Between one minute after ten o'clock (10:01) P.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. on Friday or Saturday. (Ord. 08-9, 8-18-2008)
   B.   Defense To A Violation Under This Chapter: It is a defense to a
violation under this chapter that the child engaged in the prohibited conduct
while:
      1.   Accompanied by the child's parent, legal guardian, custodian,
sibling, stepbrother or stepsister at least eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   Accompanied by an adult at least twenty one (21) years of age
approved by the child's parent, guardian or custodian.
      3.   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         a.   Employment which the laws of this state authorize a person less
than seventeen (17) years of age to perform;
         b.   A school recreational activity;
         c.   A religious event;
         d.   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         e.   An activity involving the exercise of the child's right protected
under the first amendment to the United States constitution or article 1,
sections 3, 4, and 5 of the constitution of the state of Illinois, or both;
         f.   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity that
provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the supervision
of one or more adults.
A citation for violation of subsection A of this section may be issued by a
police officer only if he reasonably believes that a violation has occurred and
none of the defenses enumerated in this subsection B apply. (Ord. 04-10, 12-6-
2004)
4-2-2: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian, custodian, or other person
to knowingly permit a person in his custody or control to violate the
provisions of section
4-2-1 of this chapter. It shall be rebuttable presumption that a person has
violated this section if someone under seventeen (17) years of age of whom such
person has custody or control is present upon any public assembly, building,
business, street or highway or other public place or public way in violation of
section
4-2-1 of this chapter, and none of the defenses enumerated in section
4-2-1 of this chapter apply.
   B.   Any person convicted of a violation of subsection A of this section
shall be fined fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first violation in any twelve
(12) month period; seventy five dollars ninety nine cents ($75.99) for a second
violation in any twelve (12) month period; and two hundred dollars ($200.00)
for a third or subsequent violation in any twelve (12) month period. (Ord. 04-
10, 12-6-2004)
4-2-3: POSSESSION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS BY MINORS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to
possess any tobacco products; provided that the possession by a person under
the age of eighteen (18) years under the direct supervision of the parent or
guardian of such person in the privacy of the parent's or guardian's home shall
not be prohibited.
"Tobacco products" are any substances containing tobacco leaf, including, but
not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff or smokeless tobaccos
including chewing tobacco and dipping tobacco. (Ord. 04-3B, 1-19-2004)
4-2-4: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its passage.
(Ord. 04-10, 12-6-2004)
CHAPTER 3
DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: License Required
4-3-3: Tag
4-3-4: Impounding Dogs
4-3-5: Dogs At Large
4-3-6: Biting Dogs
4-3-7: Rabies
4-3-8: Dogs In Heat (Rep. by Ord. 11-26, 8-15-2011)
4-3-9: Barking And Vicious Dogs
4-3-10: Sanitary Nuisance
4-3-11: Court Order To Destroy Dog
4-3-12: Keeping Of Prohibited Animals
4-3-13: Number Of Animals Allowed On Property
4-3-14: Cruelty To Animals
4-3-15: Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
DOG: Whenever used in this chapter shall include a female as well as a male
dog.
DWELLING: Any single-family, two-family, multiple-family, mobile home, or any
other property used for residential purposes in the village of Herscher.
PROHIBITED ANIMALS: Cattle, sheep, horses, goats, swine, rabbits, or live
poultry. (Ord., 1971; amd. 1983 Code; Ord. 11-3, 2-21-2011)
4-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall own or keep a dog unless he shall procure a license from the
county of Kankakee therefor. All provisions of the Kankakee County animal
control ordinance, with respect to licenses, are made a part hereof and
incorporated herein by this reference. (Ord., 1971; amd. 1983 Code)
4-3-3: TAG:
Every dog kept within the village shall be provided by its owner or kept with a
collar made of leather, metal or substantial material to which a license tag
shall be fastened. (Ord., 1971; amd. 1983 Code)
4-3-4: IMPOUNDING DOGS:
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to inform Kankakee County animal
control of any dog found running at large in the village contrary to this
chapter. All dogs so found running at large shall be retrieved by Kankakee
County animal control and delivered to the county of Kankakee dog pound, and
all provisions contained in the Kankakee County animal control ordinance with
respect to the impounding of dogs, the redemption thereof, and the disposal of
unclaimed impounded dogs are made a part hereof and incorporated herein by this
reference. If the dog's owner is known, the village will charge the owner a fee
in the amount that Kankakee County animal control charges the village for
retrieving said dog, in addition to any other fine or fee which may be
applicable in section
4-3-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 11-27, 8-15-2011)
4-3-5: DOGS AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any dog to run at large within
the village. Any dog found upon any public street, sidewalk, alley, parkway,
public hall, restaurant, coffeehouse, ice cream parlor, office, market, milk
depot or any other public or private unenclosed place shall be deemed running
at large unless such dog is firmly held on a leash or is in an enclosed
vehicle. Dogs on private unenclosed property shall be deemed at large unless
such dog is properly contained in the private unenclosed property. Any person
who permits a dog to run at large in the places described herein shall be
charged by the proper police officer and shall be fined not less than twenty
five dollars ($25.00) for the first offense; fifty dollars ($50.00) for a
second offense; and not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for any subsequent offense. (Ord., 1971; amd. 1983
Code)
4-3-6: BITING DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, when notified that
such dog has bitten any person or has so injured any person as to cause an
abrasion of the skin, to sell or give away such dog or to permit or allow such
dog to be taken beyond the limits of the village, but it shall be the duty of
such owner or keeper, upon receiving notice of the character aforesaid, to
deliver any such dog to Kankakee County animal control. Kankakee County animal
control shall forthwith convey such dog to the pound, where such dog shall be
securely chained or confined for a period of at least fifteen (15) days.
However, if any dangerous, fierce or vicious dog cannot safely be taken up and
impounded, such a dog may be disposed of by any policeman or Kankakee County
animal control. In all cases where any dog which has bitten a person or caused
an abrasion of the skin is disposed of by any policeman or Kankakee County
animal control, whether by order of court or otherwise, and a period of less
than fifteen (15) days has elapsed since the day upon which such dog bit any
person or caused an abrasion of the skin of any person, it shall be the duty of
the police department to contact Kankakee County animal control to deliver the
carcass and the brain of such dog to the Kankakee County Animal Control Center.
It is hereby made the duty of any person receiving a dog from the place where
it is impounded by Kankakee County animal control to securely muzzle and chain
such dog for a period of at least fifteen (15) days from the date of receiving
the dog from such place. (Ord. 11-15, 8-15-2011)
4-3-7: RABIES:
   A.   Any dog suffering from rabies, or any dog bitten by a dog suffering
from rabies, is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and such dog may be disposed
of by Kankakee County animal control. Any policeman may dispose of a dog
suffering from rabies if it is running at large and presents a clear and
present danger to the public. It shall be the duty of any person owning or
exercising ownership or agency over any dog to surrender said dog to any
policeman or Kankakee County animal control upon demand.
   B.   It shall be the duty of every veterinarian or other person who
discovers any dog or other animal to be suffering with rabies to report such
fact immediately to the Kankakee County Animal Control Center. Such report
shall give the name, if known, and the place of residence of the person owning
or harboring such dog or other animal, the place where it can be found, and the
license number of the dog, if known. Such dog or other animal shall be
immediately taken up and impounded in the manner provided in this chapter, and
securely kept until the Kankakee County Animal Control Center can make or cause
to be made an examination of the dog or other animal. If, upon such
examination, it shall be determined that the dog or other animal is suffering
with rabies, said animal shall be immediately killed. (Ord. 11-19, 8-15-2011)
4-3-8: DOGS IN HEAT:
(Rep. by Ord. 11-26, 8-15-2011)
4-3-9: BARKING AND VICIOUS DOGS:
Any dangerous, fierce or vicious dogs running at large in the public ways or
public places of the village or upon private premises of any person other than
the owner or keeper, and any dog which may in any manner disturb the quiet of
any person or neighborhood, or which shall bite a person or so injure a person
as to cause an abrasion of the skin, is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and
such dog shall be taken up and impounded in the manner provided by this
chapter. (Ord. 00-1, 3-20-2000)
4-3-10: SANITARY NUISANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to create a nuisance whereby the animal
excrement or other dog fallings lay unattended and uncollected by the owner or
keeper of a dog housed in a pen or chained to a stake within the village, and
any person who permits a violation of this section shall be served by the
proper police officers with an official notice and shall be fined not less than
twenty dollars ($20.00) for each violation. (Ord., 1971; amd. 1983 Code)
4-3-11: COURT ORDER TO DESTROY DOG:
If at the time and place set for trial in any court for any cause referred to
in this chapter, it shall appear that any dog has in any manner disturbed the
quiet of any person, or caused an abrasion of the skin, or attempted to bite or
snap at any person within the village, the owner or keeper shall be deemed to
have violated this chapter and shall be subject to the penalty provided for in
section
4-3-5 of this chapter.
The court may stay execution or issuance of a mittimus upon motion of the
village attorney and continue the cause for a further day, and order the
defendant to have the dog destroyed by Kankakee County animal control within
the time for which the cause is continued. Upon a satisfactory showing to the
court that the dog has been destroyed, the court may, in its discretion, cause
a nonsuit to be entered in said cause. (Ord. 11-25, 8-15-2011)
4-3-12: KEEPING OF PROHIBITED ANIMALS:
No person shall keep any cattle, sheep, horses, goats, swine, rabbits, or
poultry at any place in or upon any dwelling situated in the village unless in
a zoning district of agricultural or estate residential. (Ord. 11-3, 2-21-2011)
4-3-13: NUMBER OF ANIMALS ALLOWED ON PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor or possess more than
four (4) dogs or more than four (4) cats or more than four (4) animals of any
species in any one dwelling of any type. (Ord. 11-3, 2-21-2011)
4-3-14: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
A person shall be guilty of cruelty to any animal:
   A.   By overloading, overdriving, overworking, cruelly beating, torturing,
tormenting, mutilating, or cruelly killing any animal, or causing or knowingly
allowing the same to be done.
   B.   By unnecessarily failing to provide any animal in his charge or custody
with proper food, drink, shelter from weather or veterinary care to prevent
diseases, maladies or other health problems.
   C.   By abandoning any old, maimed, infirmed, sick, or disabled animal.
   D.   By chaining of any animal continuously for more than thirty (30)
minutes in a four (4) hour period. (Ord. 11-3, 2-21-2011)
4-3-15: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions of sections
4-3-9, and
4-3-12 through
4-3-14 of this chapter or suffering or permitting any such violation to exist
shall be subject to a fine or penalty of:
 
First offense                  $ 50.00
Second offense                 100.00
Third offense                  250.00
Fourth and subsequent offenses 500.00
 
   B.   Any person violating any section of this chapter not listed in
subsection A of this section, shall be punished by the imposition of a fine of
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation. (Ord. 14-20, 2-2-2015)
CHAPTER 4
TRUANCY
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Truancy Prohibited
4-4-3: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
RELIGION: Shall include all aspects of religious observance and practice, as
well as belief.
VALID CAUSE FOR ABSENCE: Illness, observance of a religious holiday, death in
the immediate family, family emergency and shall include other circumstances
beyond the control of the student as determined by the board of education of
Herscher Community Unit School District 2, or such other circumstances which
cause reasonable concern to the parent for the safety or health of the student.
(Ord. 08-10, 9-2-2008)
4-4-2: TRUANCY PROHIBITED:
No child who is subject to requirements of the state of Illinois and Herscher
Community Unit School District 2 for compulsory school attendance shall be
absent without valid cause from such attendance for a school day or any portion
thereof. (Ord. 08-10, 9-2-2008)
4-4-3: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be punishable by the imposition of a fine
of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation; provided, however, that age eligible first
offenders shall first be referred to teen court. For purposes of this chapter
each day of absence or portion thereof shall be construed as a separate
offense. (Ord. 08-10, 9-2-2008)
CHAPTER 5
PERSONAL POULTRY
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: License Required
4-5-3: License Application
4-5-4: License Regulations
4-5-5: Chicken Coop Requirements
4-5-6: Inspections
4-5-7: Penalties
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the
context indicates a different meaning:
CHICKEN COOP: Means an accessory structure, wholly enclosed, used for the
purposes of housing hens.
HEN: Means the female of the species Gallus Gallus f. domestica.
PERSONAL POULTRY LICENSE: Means a license to keep or maintain hens as provided
by this chapter.
SLAUGHTER: Means the act of killing an animal for food consumption. (Ord. 17-1,
1-3-2017)
4-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall keep or raise hens without having first secured a
personal poultry license annually. Said licenses shall expire one year from the
date of issuance, unless the same is renewed.
   B.   A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be charged by the Village
for the issuance of the initial license and a fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall
be charged for the annual renewal of each such license.
   C.   The applicant for a personal poultry license shall be required to
undergo such inspections as may be required in this chapter, upon application
for an initial personal poultry license. Upon an application for the renewal of
a personal poultry license, the applicant shall be required to undergo such
inspections. (Ord. 17-1, 1-3-2017)
4-5-3: LICENSE APPLICATION:
Applications for personal poultry licenses shall be made upon such forms as
prescribed by the Village of Herscher. Tenants seeking a license for rented
property must submit a copy of their current lease and written evidence that
their landlord consents to said application. (Ord. 17-1, 1-3-2017)
4-5-4: LICENSE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Licenses shall indicate the name of the licensee and the location of
the premises. Licenses issued under this section shall only apply to the
premises described in the application and only one location shall be described
in each license.
   B.   Licenses shall provide for no more than six (6) hens on each licensed
premises, and shall be restricted to properties zoned and utilized as single
family dwellings in the R-1 Single Family Residential Zoning District as
defined in the zoning ordinance. Roosters and guinea hens are prohibited.
   C.   Licensees shall not slaughter hens on the licensed premises.
   D.   Hens must be kept within the chicken coop between dusk and dawn.
   E.   The licensed premises shall be constructed and maintained to be free of
rodent infestation and to prevent the collection of standing water; refuse
resulting from hens shall be disposed of in a clean and sanitary fashion.
   F.   All feed and related items shall be protected in a container with a
tightly fitted lid to prevent rodents from gaining access.
   G.   No person shall allow hens to produce noise loud enough to disturb
persons occupying any adjacent property.
   H.   Hens shall be kept as pets or for personal, non-commercial purposes
only. Breeding or sale of eggs, excrement or any other byproduct of the
licensed activity is prohibited.
   I.   Hens must be maintained as flightless fowl. (Ord. 17-1, 1-3-2017)
4-5-5: CHICKEN COOP REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Each licensed premises shall contain a single chicken coop with
dimensions no larger than twenty four (24) square feet in area and six feet
(6') in height as measured from grade elevated at least one foot (1') off the
ground.
   B.   A building permit is required for the construction of a chicken coop;
the outdoor feeding/grazing area or the installation of a prefabricated chicken
coop; the fee for the building permit will be the same as for a shed. If
electricity is installed to the chicken coop it must be installed underground;
extension cords or above ground wire are prohibited. Any electrical work
requires an electrical permit issued by the Village of Herscher; the fee for
said electrical permit shall be the same as for an accessory structure.
   C.   Chicken coops shall be located only in a rear yard a minimum of three
feet (3') from any lot line and shall be at least thirty feet (30') from the
residential structure not occupied by the licensee. Chicken coops shall be
located at least ten feet (10') from the principal building on the licensed
premises and a minimum of five feet (5') from all other buildings on the
licensed premises and abutting properties. Existing non- residential structures
may be allowed for the housing of hens upon staff review.
   D.   Chicken coops shall be constructed of new solid materials on all sides,
including roof and door(s); the chicken coop must be constructed in such a
manner so as to protect the hens from predators and trespassers, provide
adequate ventilation to minimize odors, allow easy ingress and egress for hens
and protection from weather elements including cold temperatures.
   E.   Hens may be allowed outside of the chicken coop between dawn and dusk
only in an enclosed, covered area no larger than thirty two (32) square feet
and no taller than six feet (6'). Such area may only be located in a rear yard
a minimum of ten feet (10') from any lot line and at least thirty feet (30')
from residential structure not occupied by the licensee. The screening
enclosing this area must be buried at least twelve inches (12") deep and six
inches (6") flat to prevent predators from digging under the fence. The
material and the structural requirements of the screening shall be consistent
with no smaller than 19-gauge wire. Chicken wire shall not be used for
screening. If hardware cloth or welded wire mesh is used for screening, it must
be provided through the use of a mobile screened enclosure commonly referred to
as a chicken tractor. All areas used for feeding and grazing shall be
maintained to prevent soil erosion and runoff to neighboring properties. All
chicken coops and enclosed feeding/grazing areas shall be maintained in good,
structurally sound repair and in a neat, clean presentable and attractive
condition. (Ord. 17-1, 1-3-2017)
4-5-6: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   A license shall not be granted unless the property has been inspected
annually by the Village of Herscher and the inspector has found the licensee
and the licensed premises to be in compliance with this chapter.
   B.   In addition to any other enforcement authority granted herein, the Code
Enforcement Officer and/or building inspector shall have the authority to
enforce this chapter. (Ord. 17-1, 1-3-2017)
4-5-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   A personal poultry license may be revoked by the Village Board for
failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter. However, no license
shall be revoked until the licensee is notified and has been given the
opportunity to appear at a hearing before the Village Board. Such revocation
may be in addition to any fine imposed herein.
   B.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined as
follows:
      1.   Twenty five dollars ($25.00) for a first offense;
      2.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for a second offense; and,
      3.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for each subsequent offense. (Ord. 17-
1, 1-3-2017)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Waterworks System   1
Cross Connection Control   1A
Public And Private Sewers   2
Excavations   3
Public Parks   4
Public Ways   5
CHAPTER 1
WATERWORKS SYSTEM
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definitions
5-1-2: Rates, Charges, Established
5-1-3: Water Meters
5-1-4: Rendition Of Statements
5-1-5: Village Water Clerk, Duties, Form Of Statements
5-1-6: Delinquent Accounts; Liens
5-1-7: Connection Charges
5-1-8: Records To Be Kept
5-1-9: Village Right To Shut Off Water
5-1-10: Supplying Water To Others Prohibited
5-1-11: Separate Connections Required
5-1-12: Connection Specifications
5-1-13: Special Exceptions
5-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings given to
them:
CONSUMER: Any person, firm or corporation in whose name water is supplied by
the Village to a specific building or part thereof as registered and measured
by the meter belonging to that person.
VILLAGE: The Village of Herscher, County of Kankakee, State of Illinois.
VILLAGE BOARD: The duly elected and qualified Village President and Board of
Trustees.
WATER CONSUMED: Water supplied by the Village to any consumer as registered and
measured by the meter belonging to that consumer.
WATER SERVICE: Water consumed together with all necessary service supplied by
the Village in connection therewith. (Ord., 7-16-1979; amd. Ord. 99-6, 9-20-
1999)
5-1-2: RATES, CHARGES, ESTABLISHED:
There are hereby established rates or charges for the use and service of the
waterworks system of the Village as follows:
   A.   Charge, Rate: The minimum charges for the use and service of the
waterworks system of the Village as follows:
      1.   May 1, 2022 through April 30, 2023: The first two thousand (2,000)
gallons shall be eighteen dollars ($18.00) and for each gallon in excess of two
thousand (2,000) gallons shall be eight dollars and ninety-eight cents $8.98
per one thousand (1,000) gallons;
      2.   May 1, 2023 through April 30, 2024: The first two thousand (2,000)
gallons shall be nineteen dollars ans sixty-two cents ($19.62) and for each
gallon in excess of two thousand (2,000) gallons shall be nine dollars and
seventy-nine cents ($9.79) per one thousand (1,000) gallons;
      3.   May 1, 2024 through April 30, 2025: The first two thousand (2,000)
gallons shall be twenty-one dollars and thirty-eight cents ($21.38) and for
each gallon in excess of two thousand (2,000) gallons shall be ten dollars and
sixty-seven cents ($10.67) per one thousand (1,000) gallons;
      4.   May 1, 2025 through April 30, 2026: The first two thousand (2,000)
gallons shall be twenty-three dollars and thirty cents ($23.30) and for each
gallon in excess of two thousand (2,000) gallons shall be eleven dollars and
sixty-three cents ($11.63) per one thousand (1,000) gallons;
      5.   May 1, 2026 through April 30, 2027: The first two thousand (2,000)
gallons shall be twenty-five dollars and forty cents ($25.40) and for each
gallon in excess of two thousand (2,000) gallons shall be twelve dollars and
sixty-eight cents ($12.68) per one thousand (1,000) gallons;
And further provided that if at any time a meter shall fail to register the
quantity of water passing through the same, the quantity of water consumed
shall be determined and charges made on the average quantity registered during
the previous six (6) month, as the person designated by the Village Board to
read said meter may direct. No deduction shall be made from charges on account
of leakage, unless authorized by the Village Board.
   B.   Deposits:
      1.   When a tenant moves from a rental to another rental, a deposit in
the amount of seventy five dollars ($75.00) shall be required. The deposit will
be transferred to the new address (account) and the final bill from the
previous address will be the new "amount due" for the new account. The deposit
shall be held until the final bill has been paid in full. If the final bill is
not paid within fifteen (15) days of closing the account, the deposit will be
applied to the balance of the account. In the event the deposit is greater than
the final bill, the overage will be applied to the delinquent water fund
account. Further, if the deposit is less than the final bill, the deposit will
be applied to the account and the balance will be billed to the account holder.
      2.   When homeowners move from one address (account) to a new home, the
deposit will not be required, but if more than three (3) late notices are
issued in a twelve (12) month period, the Village Board will have the right to
request a deposit from the account holder.
      3.   When an existing water account is closed by the consumer, it will be
the Village policy to shut off the water service to that residence. If the new
owner/tenant requests water/sewer service, they must come into the Village Hall
and complete the water/sewer service application and pay the required deposit.
In the event the water account was for rental property/apartment, the landlord
can request the water service be reactivated for cleaning and maintenance of
the property. The landlord will have to pay the minimum service charge (up to
4,000 gallons) without a garbage service fee.
      4.   It will be necessary for the landlord to notify the Village in
writing of tenants moving out and new tenants moving in to prevent unnecessary
disruptions in service.
      5.   When a new account for an owned home is established, a deposit in
the amount of seventy five dollars ($75.00) will be required with a refund
available in twenty four (24) months provided no more than three (3) late
notices are issued by the Village within a twelve (12) month period.
      6.   When a new account for a business is established, a deposit in the
amount of seventy five dollars ($75.00) will be required with a refund
available in twelve (12) months provided no more than three (3) late notices
are issued by the Village within that twelve (12) month period.
   C.   Special Water: Non-Village corporate distribution shall cost the
following:
      1.   May 1, 2022 through April 30, 2023: The sum of ten dollars and
seventy-nine cents ($10.79) per one thousand (1,000) gallons. Water removed
from the Village other than through distribution mains (i.e. tanker truck)
shall be seven dollars and nineteen cents ($7.19) per one thousand (1,000)
gallons.
      2.   May 1, 2023 through April 30, 2024: The sum of eleven dollars and
seventy- six cents ($11.76) per one thousand (1,000) gallons. Water removed
from the Village other than through distribution mains (i.e. tanker truck)
shall be seven dollars and eighty-four cents ($7.84) per one thousand (1,000)
gallons.
      3.   May 1, 2024 through April 30, 2025: The sum of twelve dollars and
eighty-two cents ($12.82) per one thousand (1,000) gallons. Water removed from
the Village other than through distribution mains (i.e. tanker truck) shall be
eight dollars and fifty-four cents ($8.54) per one thousand (1,000) gallons.
      4.   May 1, 2025 through April 30, 2026: The sum of thirteen dollars and
ninety-seven cents ($13.97) per one thousand (1,000) gallons. Water removed
from the Village other than through distribution mains (i.e. tanker truck)
shall be nine dollars and thirty-one cents ($9.31) per one thousand (1,000)
gallons.
      5.   May 1, 2026 through April 30, 2027: The sum of fifteen dollars and
twenty-two cents ($15.22) per one thousand (1,000) gallons. Water removed from
the Village other than through distribution mains (i.e. tanker truck) shall be
ten and dollars and fifteen cents ($10.15) per one thousand (1,000) gallons.
Certified meters to the non-Village corporate customers shall be maintained by
the Village to ensure accuracy on billings. All non-Village corporate
distribution mains will be maintained by NPL or their successors. Village
employees shall notify NGPL or their successor of leaks upon detection from
certified meters.
   D.   Effective Time: All charges herein provided for shall commence
forthwith or otherwise as provided by law.
   E.   Effective Time: All charges herein provided for shall commence upon the
passage of this ordinance as provided by law. (Ord., 1-2-1996; amd. Ord. 99-2,
4-19-1999; Ord. 03-7, 4-21-2003; Ord. 17-13, 9-18-2017; Ord. 22-02, 4-4-2022;
Ord. 24-05b, 10-21-2024)
5-1-3: WATER METERS:
   A.   Generally: All meters used to measure the quantity of water consumed
shall be provided by Village of Herscher with the exception of meters over one
inch (1") in size which shall be the consumer's expense to maintain under
supervision of Village Public Works Trustee or other duly authorized employee
of the Village. The cost to install said meter shall be paid by the consumer
under the supervision of the Village Public Works Trustee. All meters shall be
water meters of recognized standard make and known to be a reliable meter, and
shall be approved by the Village Public Works Trustee before installation.
Water shall be supplied to any consumer only through water meters furnished and
installed as hereinbefore provided unless, under unusual circumstances and for
temporary purposes, the Village Public Works Trustee shall permit the use of
water without installation of a meter, and in such cases the charge to be made
for such use shall be ten dollars ($10.00) and at no time shall water be used
for sod or vegetation during construction.
   B.   Inspection: The Public Works Trustee and other duly authorized
employees of the Village bearing proper credentials shall be permitted to enter
upon all properties for the purpose of inspection of all water meters.
   C.   Meter Seals: Each water meter is to be sealed at the time of
installation and the consumer is required to maintain said seal intact and to
immediately report to the Village Water Clerk any seal found to be damaged or
broken. It shall be unlawful to break, damage or tamper with said water meter
seals. (Ord., 1-2-1996)
   D.   Penalties: Each consumer whose water seal is damaged and not promptly
reported, or each consumer who has broken, damaged, or tampered with a water
meter seal shall, upon conviction of any such offense, be fined an amount equal
to the average monthly billing for the Village, the average monthly billing for
the consumer so charged, or fifty dollars ($50.00), whichever is greater, for
the first offense; and for each subsequent offense, an amount equal to three
(3) times the average monthly billing for the Village, three (3) times the
average monthly billing for the consumer so charged, or one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00), whichever is greater, up to a maximum fine of five hundred
dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 99-6, 9-20-1999)
   E.   Secondary Water Meters For Gardening, Lawn Watering, And Swimming Pool
Filling: The regulations in this subsection have been repealed by ordinance 02-
1, passed January 7, 2002. However, at the time of passage of ordinance 02-1,
there were four (4) meters installed in the Village and those meters are to be
grandfathered and are to abide by regulations set forth in this subsection.
(Ord. 02-1, 1-7-2002)
      1.   All secondary meters must be installed with RPZ type check valve
size three-fourths inch (3/4") and must follow directions shown in attached
schematic and meet all State of Illinois plumbing codes, secondary meter must
be obtained from the Village of Herscher at a charge of current cost. Secondary
meter must be able to be read on the exterior of residence at or near site of
primary meter. Only one exterior faucet will be allowed to be hooked in
conjunction with secondary meter. All secondary meter inspections require a
building permit and must be inspected by the Village of Herscher plumbing
inspector.
      2.   Each consumer who is found using this secondary water meter for uses
other than gardening, lawn watering, or swimming pool filling, will be found in
violation of this Code.
      3.   Upon conviction of any such offense, be fined in an amount equal to
the average monthly billing for the Village, the average monthly billing for
the consumer so charged or one hundred dollars ($100.00), whichever is greater,
for the first offense, and for each subsequent offense, an amount equal to
three (3) times the average monthly billing for the Village, three (3) times
the average monthly billing for the consumer so charged, or three hundred
dollars ($300.00), whichever is greater, up to a maximum fine of five hundred
dollars ($500.00). Consumer will also be responsible for all accumulated
attorney and court costs. (Ord. 00-7, 11-6-2000)
   F.   Inability To Read Meter: In the event that the Village meter reader
cannot read a meter due to: 1) dogs that are running loose in a fenced yard, 2)
tied up by chain but next to or too close to the meter reading device, or 3)
some other situation which makes it impossible for the meter reader to read the
meter, the meter reader will leave a yellow card on the front doorknob of the
residence.
      The card states that:
      We were unable to read your Water Meter today due to
                         . Enter reading in the space provided on the attached
post card and return by                          . You may either mail the card
to the Village or put it in the drop box at the Village Hall.
      The attached card requests the following:
      Account #                 (Filled in by Meter Reader)
      Customer Name               (Filled in by Meter Reader)
      Date Meter is read              (Filled in by customer)
      Seven digit Meter Reading              (Filled in by customer)
   The first month the Village meter reader is required to leave a yellow card
at the residence an estimated reading will be applied along with a ten dollar
($10.00) penalty, if the card is not returned by the date indicated. Should it
be necessary to again leave a yellow card the next month, an estimated reading
will be made with another ten dollar ($10.00) penalty and the water service
will be shut off as of sixty (60) days and a thirty five dollar ($35.00) turnon
fee will be charged.
   This can be avoided by any of the following methods: 1) leave the fence gate
unlocked, 2) keep the dogs contained inside when it is time for the meter to be
read, 3) relocate the meter reading device to the front of the residence, 4)
submit the yellow postcard by the required date each month.
   After three (3) consecutive months of the meter having been read by the
homeowner, the meter must be read by a Village of Herscher employee. (Ord. 03-
6, 4-21-2003)
5-1-4: RENDITION OF STATEMENTS:
Charges for water service shall be made on a monthly basis. All statements of
such charges shall be rendered as of the first day of the monthly period within
fifteen (15) days after the rendition thereof, after which a penalty of ten
percent (10%) of the unpaid balance of said bill shall be charged and collected
as part of the bill. (Ord. 99-6, 9-20-1999)
5-1-5: VILLAGE WATER CLERK, DUTIES, FORM OF STATEMENTS:
It is hereby made the duty of the Village Water Clerk to render or cause to be
rendered, statements or charges for water service and/or all other charges in
connection therewith, and to collect all monies due thereon and to perform any
other duties set by the Village Board. The Village Water Clerk shall be
compensated on an hourly basis and at the same hourly rate paid to part time
help employees. Statements rendered for service shall show the name of the
person charged, the location of the property for which charges are made, the
amount due, when and where payable, the period for which charges are made and
the delinquencies, if any, and shall show thereon the penalty and delinquency
date. (Ord., 1-2-1996; amd. Ord. 02-4, 2-18-2002)
5-1-6: DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; LIENS:
In the event charges for water service are not paid within fifteen (15) days
following the rendition of the statement of such charges, the Village Water
Clerk is hereby directed to cause water service to be discontinued, in
accordance with the requirements of the Illinois Administrative Code, to that
consumer and to authorize the restoration only upon payment of all the
following:
   A.   Past due statement as rendered
   B.   Penalty provided in Section
5-1-4 of this Chapter
   C.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for the providing personal notice of the
imminent disconnection of the water service plus one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for the restoration of service.
   D.   Any subsequent statement for charges for water service which is then
unpaid; and
   E.   Any cost incurred in the collection of the unpaid charges. (Ord. 99-6,
9-20-1999; amd. Ord. 13-1, 1-22-2013; Ord. 17-4, 3-6-2017; Ord. 22-01, 2-22-
2022; Ord. 24-05b, 10-21-2024)
5-1-7: CONNECTION CHARGES:
The charges for connection with the Village waterworks system for newly
constructed R-1, R-2, R-3, commercial or industrial buildings or any other
types of new construction shall be:
Commercial  $1,250.00
R-1         1,250.00
R-2 duplex  1,250.00
R-3 4-unit  2,000.00
R-3 6-unit  2,500.00
R-3 8-unit  3,000.00
R-3 10-unit 3,500.00
R-3 12-unit 4,000.00
 
Said standard charges are for one inch (1") service. If other than the standard
connection of one inch (1") service is required any additional expense incurred
shall be paid by the person requesting such additional or extraordinary
connections. (Ord. 11-35, 10-17-2011)
5-1-8: RECORDS TO BE KEPT:
The Village Water Clerk is hereby directed and authorized to set up a system of
accounts and records showing the names and addresses of the persons against
whom charges are made, the owners thereof and the basis upon which such charges
are made, together with records of collections, delinquencies and all
transactions relating to said collection for water service, and the disposition
of the same. The Village Water Clerk shall receive and hold all monies derived
from the operation of the waterworks system in an account separate and apart
from other Village funds, and shall deliver such funds to the Village Treasurer
within a reasonable time after his receipt of same. The Village Treasurer shall
receive all funds so delivered and shall hold the same separate and apart from
all other Village funds. (Ord., 1-2-1996)
5-1-9: VILLAGE RIGHT TO SHUT OFF WATER:
   A.   For the purpose of repair or new construction, the Village Board
reserves the right to shut off water for any consumer without notice and for so
long as such action shall be necessary. The Village Board further reserves the
right to limit the amount of water supplied by the Village to any consumer
should such limitation be necessary, even though no such limitation may be
stated in the application or permit of such consumer and to discontinue service
to any consumer using Village water for manufacturing purposes or for supply
power, after first giving reasonable notice to such consumer of such intended
action.
   B.   No person, other than an authorized employee of the Village of Herscher
Public Works Department, shall shut off any buffalo box, or turn back on water
at any buffalo box.
   C.   Any person, other than an authorized employee of the Village of
Herscher Public Works Department, or a person authorized by an employee of the
Village of Herscher Public Works Department, who shuts off any buffalo box, or
who turns back on water at any buffalo box, shall be subject to a fine of one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. 17-5, 3-6-2017)
5-1-10: SUPPLYING WATER TO OTHERS PROHIBITED:
No consumer shall be allowed to supply Village water to any other person or
premises except by special permit from the Village Water Trustee. Water service
will be discontinued to any consumer found to be in violation of this provision
and shall be restored only upon payment by the consumer of the full scheduled
rates for any water so supplied. (Ord., 1-2-1996)
5-1-11: SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED:
Permission will not be granted to supply two (2) or more premises or buildings
fronting on the same street from a single tap, unless the service shall be
divided at the sidewalk line and each premises has a separate service therefor,
controlled by a stopcock; provided, in case the owner of any premises fronting
on a street where main pipes are laid applies for a permit to supply more than
one family or consumer occupying such premises, agreeing to pay the rate on all
water running through said service to supply such several premises, then such
permit may be granted. (Ord., 1-2-1996)
5-1-12: CONNECTION SPECIFICATIONS:
All water lines running from the Village waterworks system to newly constructed
homes, residences, dwellings, commercial or industrial buildings or any other
similar types of new construction shall be able to withstand fifty percent
(50%) more than line pressure. Any existing water lines from the Village
waterworks to existing homes, residences, dwellings or commercial or industrial
buildings or any other similar types of construction shall only be repaired to
be able to withstand fifty percent (50%) more than line pressure. All fittings
installed underground shall be constructed of brass. All work on said new or
existing water lines shall be approved by the Public Works Trustee or in his
absence the appropriate Village employee so designated. (Ord., 1-2-1996)
5-1-13: SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS:
Vacationing consumers of over a month's duration will not be billed for water
during absence period. Notification will be necessary to Village Water Clerk
for exception. No charge will be assessed for this exception. (Ord., 1-2-1996)
ARTICLE A. CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Compliance With Plumbing Code
5-1A-2: Prohibited
5-1A-3: Surveys And Investigations
5-1A-4: Information Verification
5-1A-5: Disconnection
5-1A-6: Consumer Responsible For Cleanup
5-1A-7: General Policy
5-1A-8: Definitions
5-1A-9: Information From Consumer; Access To Premises
5-1A-10: Surveys
5-1A-11: Backflow Prevention
5-1A-12: Where Protection Is Required
5-1A-13: Type Of Protection Required
5-1A-14: Backflow Prevention Devices
5-1A-15: Inspection And Maintenance
5-1A-16: Booster Pumps
5-1A-17: Violations
5-1A-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE:
All plumbing installed within the village of Herscher shall be installed in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code
890. If in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of the
superintendent of water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the superintendent of water
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois
plumbing code, Illinois environmental protection agency and all applicable
local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved
devices upon installation and annually thereafter, at a minimum. The owner of
the premises shall maintain records to document that testing, servicing and
repairs are conducted as required. (Ord. 08-3, 4-21-2008)
5-1A-2: PROHIBITED:
No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established or
maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary
or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the
village of Herscher enter the supply or distribution system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
superintendent of water and the Illinois environmental protection agency. (Ord.
08-3, 4-21-2008)
5-1A-3: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the superintendent of water to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years or
as often as the superintendent of water shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five (5) years. (Ord. 08-3, 4-21-2008)
5-1A-4: INFORMATION VERIFICATION:
The approved cross connection control device inspector shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the village of Herscher for the purpose
of verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and the water
superintendent or his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system of the village of Herscher for the purpose of verifying
information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross connection
control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property
so served shall furnish to the superintendent of water any information which he
may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such
property. The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the superintendent of water, be deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connections as provided in this article. (Ord. 08-3, 4-21-2008)
5-1A-5: DISCONNECTION:
The superintendent of water of the village of Herscher is hereby authorized and
directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the
water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this article is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service to
such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been eliminated
or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this article, and until a
reconnection fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) is paid to the village of
Herscher. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
superintendent of water is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate
disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or
anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided
that, in the reasonable opinion of the superintendent of water or the Illinois
environmental protection agency, such action is required to prevent actual or
potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply. Neither the
public water supply, the superintendent of water or its agents or assigns shall
be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost revenues which may
result from termination of said customer's water supply in accordance with the
terms of this article, whether or not said termination was with or without
notice. (Ord. 08-3, 4-21-2008)
5-1A-6: CONSUMER RESPONSIBLE FOR CLEANUP:
The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply occurs through an
illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of cleanup of
the potable water supply system. (Ord. 08-3, 4-21-2008)
5-1A-7: GENERAL POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
      1.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
      2.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between the public's or consumer's potable water system
and nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems
containing substances of unknown or questionable safety.
      3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public's and consumer's potable water systems.
   B.   Application: These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the village of Herscher.
   C.   Policy: The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or back siphonage of contaminants through the customer's water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the superintendent of water or his
authorized representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the superintendent of water
shall give notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention
device at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall
immediately install such approved device or devices at his own expense;
failure, refusal or inability on the part of the consumer to install such
device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water
service to the premises until such a device or devices have been installed. The
consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair
as required in subsection
5-1A-15D of this article for a period of at least five (5) years. (Ord. 08-3,
4-21-2008)
5-1A-8: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
these regulations:
AGENCY: Illinois environmental protection agency.
APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the research
foundation for cross connection control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams, or process fluids, or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method or type of construction intended
to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for backflow
prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois plumbing code
and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of any
premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer's premises. A
building plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water supply.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   Direct Cross Connection: A cross connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   Indirect Cross Connection: A cross connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE standard 1015. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shutoff valves located on each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
FIXED PROPER AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify "health hazard" means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois plumbing
code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative code 604.
PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension
of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes, including,
without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a private water
supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or at the curb to,
within and about any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work
or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping, from discharge of pumping units to
and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. Plumbing includes all
piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building drain and a
sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or buildings
where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of connection
of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage disposal system
five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative
code 604 for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
POTENTIAL CROSS CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollutional, or system hazard if introduced into the
public's or a consumer's potable water system. This includes, but is not
limited to:
   A.   Polluted or contaminated waters;
   B.   Process waters;
   C.   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which may
have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
   D.   Cooling waters;
   E.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams, or irrigation systems;
   F.   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
   G.   Oils, gases, acids, alkali and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in
industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least fifteen (15) service connections or which
regularly serve at least twenty five (25) persons at least sixty (60) days per
year. A public water supply is either a "community water supply" or a
"noncommunity water supply".
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves and approved under ASSE standard 1013. During normal flow
and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks
shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check
valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall
operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the
supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located
at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly
located test cocks.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances, at
the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping system
regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply system and
must include the location, type and most recent inspection and testing date of
all cross connection control devices and methods located within that customer's
piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should not be an actual
plumbing inspection. (Ord. 08-3, 4-21-2008)
5-1A-9: INFORMATION FROM CONSUMER; ACCESS TO PREMISES:
On request by the superintendent of water, or his authorized representative,
the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping system or systems
or water use within the customer's premises. The consumer's premises shall be
open at all reasonable times to the superintendent of water for the
verification of information submitted by the inspection consumer to the public
water supply custodian regarding cross connection inspection results. (Ord. 08-
3, 4-21-2008)
5-1A-10: SURVEYS:
It shall be the responsibility of the water superintendent to arrange periodic
surveys of water use practices on his premises to determine whether there are
actual or potential cross connections to his water system through which
contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or the public potable water
system. All cross connection control or other plumbing inspections must be
conducted in accordance with 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/3. (Ord. 08-3,
4-21-2008)
5-1A-11: BACKFLOW PREVENTION:
It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow into the
public water system by ensuring that:
   A.   Control Of Backflow: All cross connections are removed; or approved
cross connection control devices are installed for control of backflow and
backsiphonage.
   B.   Device Installation: Cross connection control devices shall be
installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
   C.   Inspection: Cross connection control devices shall be inspected at the
time of installation and at least annually by a person approved by the agency
as a cross connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of
mechanical devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the
manufacturer's instruction.
   D.   Testing And Records:
      1.   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at least
annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
      2.   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by agency personnel in accordance with 415 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4.
      3.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
      4.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
         a.   Date of each test;
         b.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
         c.   Test results;
         d.   Repairs or servicing required;
         e.   Repairs and date completed; and
         f.   Servicing performed and date completed. (Ord. 08-3, 4-21-2008)
5-1A-12: WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED:
   A.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois administrative
code 680. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving premises,
where in the judgment of the superintendent of water, actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply system exist.
   B.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the superintendent of water and
the source is approved by the Illinois environmental protection agency.
      2.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the superintendent of water.
      3.   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment of
the superintendent of water and the cross connection control device inspector,
are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which makes it
impractical to determine whether or not cross connections exist.
      4.   Premises where, because of security requirement or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connection survey.
      5.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
   C.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois administrative
code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving, but not
necessarily limited to, the following types of facilities unless the
superintendent of water determines that no actual or potential hazard to the
public water supply system exists:
      1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
      2.   Laboratories.
      3.   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
      4.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater
pumping stations.
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants.
      6.   Chemical plants.
      7.   Metal plating industries.
      8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      9.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      10.   Car washes.
      11.   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
      12.   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks. (Ord. 08-3, 4-21-
2008)
5-1A-13: TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   The type of protection required under section
5-1A-12 of this article shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as
follows:
      1.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that could
cause a severe health hazard.
      2.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      3.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be polluted with substances that could cause a
pollution hazard not dangerous to health.
   B.   The type of protection required under section
5-1A-12 of this article shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or
an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device.
   C.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      1.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      2.   Water is pumped into the system from another source; or
      3.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source; or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source;
      4.   There is a connection whereby another source can be connected to the
sprinkler system. (Ord. 08-3, 4-21-2008)
5-1A-14: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the research foundation for cross connection
control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National
Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   B.   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with 35
Illinois administrative code 653.802, and only as specified by the research
foundation for cross connection control of the University of Southern
California or applicable industry specifications. Maintenance as recommended by
the manufacturer of the device shall be performed. Manufacturer's maintenance
manual shall be available on site. (Ord. 08-3, 4-21-2008)
5-1A-15: INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, test, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer's instructions:
      1.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document that
a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of the
service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within fifteen (15) days.
      3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five (5)
days.
   B.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   C.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   D.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      1.   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      3.   Test results;
      4.   Repairs or servicing required;
      5.   Repairs and date completed; and
      6.   Servicing performed and date completed.
   E.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay.
   F.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
superintendent of water. (Ord. 08-3, 4-21-2008)
5-1A-16: BOOSTER PUMPS:
   A.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low pressure
cutoff device in proper working order and to certify to the superintendent of
water, at least once a year, that the device is operable. (Ord. 08-3, 4-21-
2008)
5-1A-17: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   The superintendent of water shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable
notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any
backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not installed,
tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the superintendent of
water, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed
or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises, or
if a low pressure cutoff required by these regulations is not installed and
maintained in working order.
   B.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with
these regulations and to the satisfaction of the superintendent of water, and
the required reconnection fee is paid. (Ord. 08-3, 4-21-2008)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Use of Public Sewers Required
5-2-3: Private Sewage Disposal
5-2-4: Building Sewers and Sewerage Facilities
5-2-5: Use of Public Sewers
5-2-6: Powers and Authority of Inspectors
5-2-7: Penalties
5-2-8: Wastewater Service Charges
5-2-9: General Provisions
5-2-10: Effective Date of Rates
5-2-11: Appendices
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this Chapter shall be as follows:
CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE
MAY: Is permissible.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
ADMINISTRATOR: The Administrator of the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency.
FEDERAL ACT: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.)
as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (P.L.
92-500 and P.L. 93-243), the Clean Water Act of 1977 (P.L. 95-217), 1981
Amendments, and any other subsequent amendments thereto.
FEDERAL GRANT: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II, Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Federal Act and implementing
regulations.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
Administrator or where appropriated by the Director after enactment of the
Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
section 402 of the Federal Act.
FINANCIAL DEBT SERVICE CHARGE:The portion of the sewer service charge that is
designated for retirement and interest on bonds and all notes authorized and
issued by the Village to construct sewage system facilities for the Village.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:The costs incurred in the act of keeping all
facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of wastewater in a
good state of repair and functioning properly (including replacement as defined
in this Section).
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories
and appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the sewerage
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which subject works were
designed and constructed.
SEWERAGE FUND: The principal accounting designation for all revenues received
in the operation of the sewerage system.
SURCHARGE: The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt service
charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in strength
than the concentration values established in Section
5-2-8 of this Chapter.
USER CHARGE: The charge assessed users of the system to recover a user's
proportionate share of the cost of operation, maintenance and replacement of
the sewerage system.
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE:The total charge assessed users of the sewerage
system. The wastewater service charge includes user charges plus the cost of
debt services, the cost of capital improvements, the cost of wastewater
monitoring and any other cost that is incurred in the operation of the sewage
system.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT
APPROVING AUTHORITY or SUPERINTENDENT:The chairman of the Water and Sewer
Committee of the Board of Trustees of the Village or his authorized deputy,
agent or representative.
ORDINANCE: This Chapter.
VILLAGE: The Village of Herscher, Illinois.
PERSON
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, Municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to a public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive wastewater,
storm, surface and ground water drainage.
CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure located on a commercial or industrial site from
which wastes from that business or industry are discharged. Where feasible, the
manhole shall have an interior drop. The purpose of a control manhole is to
provide access for the Village representative to sample and/or measure
discharges.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
Village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the Village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the Village waste
collection system even though those sewers may not have been constructed with
Village funds.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which both storm, surface and ground waters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
SEPTIC TANK: A watertight, accessible covered receptacle designed and
constructed to receive sewage from a building sewer, to settle solids from the
liquid, to retain floating solids through a period of retention and allow the
clarified liquids to be discharged to other treatment units for final disposal.
SERVICE LATERAL: A gravity extension from the building drain to the public
gravity sewer.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
SEWERAGE: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
STORM SEWER: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
STORM WATER RUNOFF:That portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
STATE GOVERNMENT
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
STATE ACT: The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970 and any subsequent
amendments thereto.
TREATMENT
PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with waste treatment plant, wastewater treatment plant, pollution control plant
or sewage treatment plant.
USER TYPES
COMMERCIAL USER: Shall include transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
INDUSTRIAL USERS: Shall include establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL
USER:Shall include schools, churches, penal institutions and users associated
with Federal, State and local governments.
RESIDENTIAL USER: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes, apartments,
permanent multi-family dwellings.
USER CLASS: The type of user residential, institutional/governmental,
commercial or industrial as defined herein.
WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS
BOD: (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees (20o) C. expressed in milligrams per liter.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable oil if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food and from handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l):A unit of measure of the concentration of water or
wastewater constituent. It is 0.001 gram (g) of the constituent in one thousand
(1,000) milliliters (ml) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used,
commonly parts per million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in
reporting the results of water and wastewater analysis.
NORMAL STRENGTH WASTES:Water borne wastes from residences, business buildings,
institutions and industrial establishments contributed by reason of human
occupancy and which is discharged from sanitary plumbing facilities and when
analyzed show the weight a daily average of not more than two hundred (200) mg/
l of BOD nor more than two hundred fifty (250) mg/l of SS in concentration.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed by one of the procedures outlined in "Standard Methods".
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
POPULATION EQUIVALENT:A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or other
waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one hundred
(100) gallons of sewage per day, containing seventeen one-hundredths (0.17)
pounds of BOD and twenty one-hundredth (0.20) pounds of suspended solids.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE:The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of foods that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in
building drains and sewers, with no particle greater than one-half(1/2) inch
(1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.
SEPTAGE: The accumulated solids and liquid wastes which require periodic
removal from septic tanks or interceptor basins.
SEWAGE: Is used interchangeably with "wastewater".
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average
twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
STANDARD METHODS:The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater" published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in "Standard Methods".
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and subsequent wastewater treatment facilities provided.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint, it may be a
combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial
buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any ground water,
surface water and storm water that may be present.
WATER QUALITY STANDARDS: Are defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES
USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES:The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat wastes and transport effluent to a watercourse.
WATERCOURSES AND CONNECTIONS
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface water or ground water.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 0-88-1, 4-4-88)
5-2-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
Village or in any area under the jurisdiction of said Village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
Village or any area under the jurisdiction of said Village, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage except as provided in Section 5-2-3, "Private Sewage Disposal" of this
Chapter.
   D.   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes and situated within the
Village and abutting on any street, alley, right of way or public utility
easement in which there is now located or may in the future be located any
public sanitary sewer is hereby required, at his expense, to install suitable
toilet facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, within
ninety (90) days after date of official notice to do so, is within one hundred
feet (100') (30.5) meters of the property line. (Ord. 0-88-1, 4-4-88)
5-2-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
Section 5-2-2D, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage
disposal system complying with provisions of this Section.
   B.   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the Village,(reference Appendix No. 1) which the applicant shall
supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed
necessary by the Superintendent.
      1.   A permit and hook-on fee, as set by the Village Board, shall be paid
to the Village Clerk at the time the application is filed.
   C.   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspections shall be made within sixty
(60) hours of the receipt of written notice by the Superintendent.
   D.   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all requirements of the State of Illinois Private
Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code and with the State of Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency. All residential septic tanks shall have a
nominal one thousand (1,000) gallon capacity with an additional fifteen percent
(15%) reserve capacity. Septic tank design and construction shall be approved
by the superintendent prior to installation. No permit shall be issued for any
private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is less than twelve thousand (12,000) square feet
(1,115 square meters). No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet or public sewer.
   E.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in subsection
5-2-2D of this chapter, the owner shall, at his own expense, connect to the
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within ninety
(90) days after official notice to do so.
   F.   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the village.
   G.   No statement made in this chapter shall be construed to limit any
additional requirements that may be hereafter imposed by the village, the
Illinois department of public health or the state of Illinois environmental
protection agency. (Ord. 0-88-1, 4-4-1988)
5-2-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND SEWERAGE FACILITIES:
   A.   Unauthorized Usage: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewerage
facility or appurtenance thereof, without first obtaining a written permit from
the superintendent.
   B.   Unlawful Disposal: All disposal by any person into the sewer system is
unlawful except those discharges in compliance with federal standards
promulgated pursuant to the federal act and more stringent state and local
standards.
   C.   Permit Applications:
      1.   There shall be three (3) classes of building permits:
         a.   For residential service.
         b.   For commercial service or institutional/governmental service.
         c.   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      2.   In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the village (reference section
5-2-11, appendix 1 of this chapter). The permit application shall be
supplemented by plans, specifications or other information demonstrating to the
superintendent that the facilities proposed are adequate for use with the
existing system. An industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must also
provide information describing its wastewater characteristics and type of
activity. A hookon and permit fee shall be paid to the village clerk at the
time the application is filed.
   D.   Permit Fee: A permit and inspection fee of:
Commercial  $1,750.00
R-1         1,750.00
R-2 duplex  1,900.00
R-3 4-unit  2,400.00
R-3 6-unit  2,900.00
R-3 8-unit  3,400.00
R-3 10-unit 3,900.00
R-3 12-unit 4,400.00
 
for a sewer permit and hookup fee shall be paid to the village at the time the
application is filed for all single- family, multi-family, commercial and
industrial buildings.
   E.   Permit Conditions: A building sewer permit will only be issued and a
sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated by the village
that the downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and
wastewater treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately
and efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   F.   Connection Costs: All costs and expenses incident to the installation
and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner
shall indemnify and hold harmless the village from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer
and sewerage facilities.
   G.   Separate Building Sewers: A separate and independent building sewer
and, where required, sewerage facility shall be provided for every building,
except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot
and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from
the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer.
   H.   Specifications:
      1.   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the superintendent, but in no event shall the diameter be less than
six inches (6"). The slope of such six inch (6") pipe shall not be less than
one foot (1') per one hundred feet (100'), unless otherwise specifically
authorized by the superintendent. For larger sizes of pipes, the minimum slope
shall be according to all state and local regulations.
      2.   The building sewer shall be extra heavy cast iron soil pipe
conforming to ASTM specification A-74 or equal; extra strength vitrified clay
sewer pipe conforming to ASTM specification C-700 or equal; SDR-35 polyvinyl
chloride (PVC) sewer pipe conforming to ASTM specification D-2729, D-3033, D-
3034 or equal; or other suitable material approved by the superintendent.
      3.   Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet (10')
of a water service pipe shall be laid in a separate trench and at such an
elevation that the top of the sewer is at least eighteen inches (18") below the
bottom of the water service pipe. If it is impossible to obtain a horizontal
separation of at least ten feet (10'), or a vertical separation of at least
eighteen inches (18"), as stipulated above, the sewer shall be constructed of
mechanical or slip on rubber gasket joint water main quality pipe and shall be
pressure tested to assure watertightness.
   I.   Depth And Grade:
      1.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which
is approved by the village and discharged to the building sewer. No building
sewer shall be laid parallel with any bearing wall if within three feet (3') of
any said wall. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
      2.   The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight
alignment insofar as possible. Where a straight alignment is not possible, pipe
may be laid on a uniform horizontal or vertical curvature achieved by
deflecting pipe joints within the limits recommended by the manufacturer of the
pipe used. The maximum deflection of any one fitting shall not exceed forty
five degrees (45°). The maximum deflection of any combination of two (2)
adjacent fittings shall not exceed forty five degrees (45°) unless straight
pipe of not less than two and one-half feet (21/2') in length be installed
between such adjacent fittings or unless one of such fittings be a wye branch
with a cleanout provided on the straight leg. Service sewer pipe shall be
installed in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
   J.   Surface Runoff: No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts,
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff
or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   K.   Procedures And Materials:
      1.   All excavations required for the installation of a building and
sewerage facility shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the
superintendent. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with
the appropriate specifications of the American Society For Testing And
Materials (ASTM) or the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main
Construction In Illinois", except that no backfill can be placed until the work
has been inspected. All joints and connections shall be made gastight and
watertight.
      2.   All cast iron soil pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or
hemp and filled with molten lead, federal specification QQ-L-156 or most
current federal specification, not less than one inch (1") deep. Lead shall be
run in one pouring and caulked tight. No paint, varnish or other coatings shall
be permitted on the jointing material until after the joint has been tested and
approved. Rubber gaskets for cast iron soil pipe joints conforming to ASTM
specification C-564 may be used in lieu of leaded joints. All joints in
vitrified clay pipe shall be made with rubber gaskets conforming to ASTM
specification C-425.
      3.   Joints for PVC pipe shall be push on rubber gasket joints conforming
to ASTM specification D-1869. Other jointing material methods may be used only
by approval of the superintendent.
      4.   Connection between piping of different material shall be made with a
suitable adapter or fitting specifically manufactured for this purpose and
approved by the superintendent. The connection of the building sewer into the
public sewer shall be made at the tee connection, if such connection is
available at a suitable location. If the public sewer has no properly located
tee connection, the superintendent shall install a tee connection in the public
sewer at a suitable location. Manholes shall be constructed at any junction of
an eight inch (8") or larger diameter line into a public sewer. No building
sewer connection shall be made into a manhole. Provided, however, such manhole
sewer connection shall be allowed due to unique structural and/or design
circumstances. Provided further such approval may only be granted by a majority
of the village board and the village engineer.
      5.   Building sewers shall be tested for leakage prior to acceptance by
the village by smoke testing, exfiltration testing, low pressure air testing or
other suitable method of testing approved by the superintendent.
      6.   Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials contained
herein must be approved by the superintendent before installation.
   L.   Inspection: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the superintendent when the installation is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer and prior to backfilling of the work. Connection to the
public sewer shall be made under the supervision of the superintendent or his
representative.
   M.   Leaktight Building Sewer: Users of the sanitary sewer system shall have
a leaktight building sewer. The superintendent may perform smoke testing,
exfiltration testing, low pressure air testing or other suitable methods of
leakage testing on existing building sewers. If a building sewer fails the
leakage test, the superintendent shall notify the property owner. Within sixty
(60) days after being notified, the property owner shall repair the building
sewer at no cost to the village.
   N.   Barricades And Lights: All excavations for building sewer and sewerage
installation and repair shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights
so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways,
utilities and other property disturbed in the course of work shall be restored
in a manner equal to or better than existed prior to the work being done. (Ord.
11-36, 10-17-2011)
5-2-5: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any public sanitary
sewer.
   B.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged, on the approval of the superintendent, to a
storm sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers or sewerage
facilities:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or waste having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewerage facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   D.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the superintendent, that such wastes can harm either the sewers or
sewerage facilities; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In
forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the superintendent
shall give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, capacity of the sewerage facilities, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oil, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two degrees and one hundred fifty degrees (32o and 150o)
Fahrenheit. (0o and 65o C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Superintendent.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the State, Federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State and Federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and five-tenths
(5.5) or in excess of nine and five-tenths (9.5).
      9.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable State and Federal regulations.
      10.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as permitted
by the Superintendent in compliance with State and Federal regulations.
      11.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residue) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the downstream sewage
treatment works.
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      12.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   E.   Approval of Superintendent Required:
      1.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in Section 5-2-5D and/or which are in violation
of the standards for pretreatment provided in chapter 1, EPA Rules and
Regulations, subchapter D, Water Programs part 128-Pretreatment Standards,
Federal Register volume 38, No. 215, Thursday, November 8, 1973 and any
amendments thereto and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have
deleterious effect upon the downstream sewage works, processes, equipment or
receiving waters or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of the discharge to
the public sewers; and/or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of Section 5-2-8.
      2.   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   F.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   G.   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his expense.
   H.   Each industry shall be required to install, when required by the
Superintendent, such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
interceptor basin or control manhole to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Each commercial user shall also install similar
items if it is required by the Superintendent. Such items when required, shall
be accessible and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with
plans approved the Superintendent. Such meters and other appurtenances for
observation, sampling and measurement shall be installed by the owner at his
expense and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
   I.   Analyses:
      1.   The owner of the property serviced by sewage facilities carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this Chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the Village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
      2.   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the Village, but no less than
once per year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents
of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the Federal, State
and local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the Village at such times and in such
manner as prescribed by the Village.
      3.   The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses and
reporting required by the Village. At such times as deemed necessary, the
Village reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an
outside laboratory service.
   J.   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this Chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association and
shall be determined at the control manhole, interceptor basin or pump vault or
upon suitable samples taken at said locations. Sampling shall be carried out by
customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and
property. The particular analyses involved will determine whether a twenty four
(24) hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a
grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and
suspended solids analyses are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of
all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples.
   K.   No statement contained in this Chapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the Village and any industrial
concern by the Village for subsequent treatment downstream, subject to payment
therefor, in accordance with this Chapter, by the industrial concern, provided
such payments are in accordance with Federal and State guidelines for user
charge system. (Ord. 0-88-1, 4-4-88)
5-2-6: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the Village,
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter. The Superintendent or his representative shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining,
ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on
the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for
waste treatment.
   B.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection A of this Section, the Superintendent or duly authorized
employees of the Village, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable
to the premises established by the property owner, and the Village shall
indemnify the property owner against loss or damage to its property by Village
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the property owner and growing out of the
gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in subsection
5-2-5I.
   C.   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the Village,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the Village holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the easement pertaining to
the private property involved. (Ord. 0-88-1, 4-4-88)
5-2-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this Chapter shall be
served by the Village with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
      1.   The Village may revoke any permit for sewage disposal as a result of
any violation of any provision of this Chapter.
   B.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided in Section 5-2-7A shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction
thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall become
liable to the Village by reason of such violation. (Ord. 0-88-1, 4-4-88)
5-2-8: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Basis for the Wastewater Service Charges: The wastewater service charge
for the use of and for service supplied by the sewerage facilities of the
Village shall consist of a basic user charge for operation and maintenance plus
replacement, a debt service charge, if any, and a surcharge, if applicable.
   B.   Basic User Charges:
      1.   The basic user charge and debt service charge shall be based on
water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having
the following normal concentration:
         a.   A five (5) day, twenty degree (20o) centigrade biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD) of two hundred (200) mg/l.
         b.   A suspended solids (SS) content of two hundred fifty (250) mg/l.
      2.   The basic user charge shall consist of operation and maintenance
costs plus replacement and shall be computed as follows:
         a.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all work categories.
         b.   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories
by volume, suspended solids and BOD if possible.
         c.   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of suspended solids and pound
of BOD to be treated.
         d.   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal sewage
strength.
         e.   Compute surcharge costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons per
milligrams per liter in excess of normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
   C.   Surcharge:
      1.   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the
normal concentrations for BOD two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/L) and
SS two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/L). The surcharge will be
based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for all
wastes which exceed the above normal concentrations for BOD and SS. Subsection
I of this section specifies the procedures to compute a surcharge.
      2.   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed
annually by certified public accountants for the Village in their annual audit
report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect
a change in debt service or a change in operation and maintenance costs,
including replacement costs.
   D.   Measure Of Flow: The flow used for computing basic user charges and
surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even
increments of one thousand (1,000) gallons.
      1.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers obtains any
part or all of his water from sources other than the public waterworks system,
all or part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person shall
install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by the
Village for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from these
other sources.
      2.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the Village if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the metered
water consumption records.
      3.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the Superintendent.
      4.   Metered water used to fill swimming pools or for other purposes
which do not result in discharge to the public sewerage facilities may be
deducted from the metered consumption provided:
         a.   The total volume for each use is in excess of three thousand
(3,000) gallons.
         b.   The total volume deducted from the metered consumption is not
discharged to the public sewerage facilities.
         c.   A sanitary sewer base user charge waiver application is
completed, signed by the Superintendent and filed with the Village Clerk.
         d.   The Village is allowed access to verify the quantity of water
used.
         e.   The Village is allowed access to verify the water deducted from
the metered consumption is not drained to the public sewerage facilities.
      5.   Water meters installed exclusively to measure water which will not
be discharged to the public sewerage facilities will not be included in
computing basic user charges. Such meters shall be installed only after
approval of the Superintendent and at the owner's expense.
   E.   Debt Service Charge: (Rep. by Ord. 17-14, 9-18-2017)
   F.   Basic User Rate: The minimum charge for the use of the sewer system
shall be as follows:
      1.   May 1, 2022 through April 30, 2023: The first two thousand (2,000)
gallons shall be twelve dollars and seventy-six cents ($12.76) and for each
gallon in excess of two thousand (2,000) gallons shall be six dollars and
thirty-eight cents ($6.38) per one thousand (1,000) gallons;
      2.   May 1, 2023 through April 30, 2024: The first two thousand (2,000)
gallons shall be thirteen dollars and fourteen cents ($13.14) and for each
gallon in excess of two thousand (2,000) gallons shall be six dollars and
fifty-seven cents ($6.57) per one thousand (1,000) gallons;
      3.   May 1, 2024 through April 30, 2025: The first two thousand (2,000)
gallons shall be thirteen dollars and fifty-three cents ($13.53) and for each
gallon in excess of two thousand (2,000) gallons shall be six dollars and
seventy-seven cents ($6.77) per one thousand (1,000) gallons;
      4.   May 1, 2025 through April 30, 2026: The first two thousand (2,000)
gallons shall be thirteen dollars and ninety-three cents ($13.93) and for each
gallon in excess of two thousand (2,000) gallons shall be six dollars and
ninety-seven cents ($6.97) per one thousand (1,000) gallons;
      5.   May 1, 2026 through April 30, 2027: The first two thousand (2,000)
gallons shall be fourteen dollars and thirty-five cents ($14.35) and for each
gallon in excess of two thousand (2,000) gallons shall be seven dollars and
eighteen cents ($7.18) per one thousand (1,000) gallons.
   G.   Flat Rate Charge: (Rep. by Ord. 17-14, 9-18-2017)
   H.   Surcharge Rate: The rate for surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as
follows:
BOD - $0.21 per pound in excess of normal strength.
SS - $0.18 per pound in excess of normal strength.
   I.   Computation Of Surcharge: The concentration of wastes used for
computing surcharges shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling
shall be performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the Superintendent
and shall be binding as a basis for surcharges.
   J.   Computation Of Wastewater Service Charge: The wastewater service charge
shall be computed by the following formula:
 
         CW = (Vu) (CD + CU) + CS
Where:   
 CW   = Amount of wastewater service charge ($) per billing period.
 Vu   = Wastewater volume for the billing period.
 CU   = Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and replacement (subsection
         F of this section).
 CS   = Amount of surcharge (subsections H and I of this section).
 
   K.   Appeals: The method for computation of rates and service charges
established for user charges shall be made available to a user within thirty
(30) days of receipt of a written request for such. Any disagreement over the
method used or in the computations thereof shall be remedied by the Village
Board of Trustees within thirty (30) days after notification of a formal
written appeal outlining the discrepancies. (Ord. 0-88-1, 4-4-1988; amd. Ord.
17-14, 9-18-2017; Ord. 22-03, 4-4-2022)
5-2-9: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Bills: Said rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly or
quarterly depending on the classification of service for which bills are
rendered. (Ord. 99-6, 9-20-1999)
      1.   The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such
premises and the service is furnished to the premises by the Village only upon
the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the services
are jointly and severally liable to the Village. (Ord. 0-88-1, 4-4-1988)
      2.   Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the Water Clerk on the
first day of the monthly period or quarter succeeding the period for which the
service is billed. All sewer bills are due and payable fifteen (15) days after
being sent out. A penalty of ten percent (10%) shall be added to all bills not
paid by the fifteenth day after they have been rendered.
   B.   Delinquent Bills: If the charges for such services are not paid within
fifteen (15) days after the rendition of the bill for such services, such
services shall be discontinued upon the giving of notice and shall not be
reinstated until all charges and penalties have been paid.
      1.   When a bill for such charges has not been paid within fifteen (15)
days after its rendition, the Water Clerk shall cause to be served upon the
user of said services or upon the owner of the premises, if vacant and
unoccupied, a written notice to the effect that said services shall be
discontinued by the Village (which services shall include the services of the
public water supply of the Village), unless within ten (10) days from the
giving of said notice all charges due to the Village, including penalties, have
been paid in full. Said notice shall inform the owner or user that any claim
for an erroneous billing must be filed in writing with said Clerk within said
ten (10) day period and presented by said claimant to the Village Board for
their consideration and determination at their next regular Board meeting or at
a public hearing. During such an appeal procedure and within five (5) days
after the conclusion thereof, no discontinuation of services shall be made.
Service of said notice of discontinuation may be made either by personal
service thereof by the Clerk or by mailing said written notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid and addressed to said user or owner at his or her last
known address. (Ord. 99-6, 9-20-1999)
      2.   Whenever it becomes necessary to disconnect or discontinue service
to any premises, a fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00) shall become due and
payable to the Village from said user or owner or both. When it becomes
necessary to restore or reconnect said service, a reconnection fee of thirty
five dollars ($35.00) shall be paid to said Village before said service is
restored. (Ord., 2-20-1995)
   C.   Lien; Notice Of Delinquency: Whenever a bill for sewer service remains
unpaid for fifteen (15) days after it has been rendered, the Village Clerk
shall file with the County Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This
statement shall contain the legal description of the premises served, the
amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the Village claims a lien for this
amount as well as for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
(Ord. 99-6, 9-20-1999)
      1.   The failure of the Village Clerk to record such a lien shall not
affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills mentioned in this
subsection C. (Ord., 2-20-1995)
   D.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be subject to appropriate foreclosure proceedings, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens, and the proceeds of the sale shall first be
applied to pay the cost of the proceeding, including reasonable attorney fees,
and the balance shall be applied to pay the past due charges. (Ord. 0-88-1, 4-
4-1988)
      1.   The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
such proceedings in the name of the Village in any court having jurisdiction
over such matters against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid
for thirty (30) days after it has been rendered. Nothing herein shall be
construed, however, to serve to limit any remedy which would otherwise be
available to the Village for the collection of the past due amount. (Ord. 99-6,
9-20-1999)
   E.   Revenues: All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the
sewerage system shall be deposited in the account of the Sewerage Fund. All
such revenues and monies shall be held by the Village Treasurer separate and
apart from his private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the
Village and all of said sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be
delivered to the Village Treasurer not more than ten (10) days after receipt of
the same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be
directed by the President and Board of Trustees. The Village Treasurer shall
receive all such revenues from the sewerage system and all other funds and
monies incident to the operation of such system as the same may be delivered to
him and deposit the same in the account of the Sewerage Fund of the Village.
Said Treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner
provided by the Illinois Municipal Code and all other laws thereto enabling and
amendatory.
   F.   Accounts:
      1.   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts
and shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which the complete and
correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage
system, and at regular annual intervals he shall cause to be made an audit by
an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
      2.   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the public
sewerage facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer
service charges under the waste cost recovery system do in fact meet these
regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
         a.   Flow data showing total gallons measured at treatment facility
for the current year.
         b.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed.
         c.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
         d.   Number of users connected to the system.
         e.   Number of nonmetered users.
   G.   Notice Of Rates:
      1.   A copy of this chapter properly certified by the Village Clerk shall
be filed in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Kankakee County and shall be
deemed notice to all owners of real estate of the charges of the sewerage
system of said Village on their properties.
      2.   Each user will be notified at least annually in conjunction with a
regular bill of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are
attributable to wastewater treatment service.
   H.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of
this section shall be fined in the amount not exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   I.   Access To Records: The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or its
authorized representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers and
records of the Village which are applicable to the Village system of user
charges for the purpose of making an audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the special and
general conditions to any State grant. (Ord. 0-88-1, 4-4-1988)
5-2-10: EFFECTIVE DATE OF RATES:
The rates and service charges established for user charges in section
5-2-8 of this chapter shall be effective July 1, 1999, and on bills to be
rendered for the next succeeding quarter or monthly period beginning July 1,
1999. (Ord. 99-6, 9-20-1999)
5-2-11: APPENDICES:
APPENDIX NO. 1
    Applications For Sewer Permits
Private sewage disposal application
Residential building sewer and sewerage facility application
Commercial building sewer and sewerage facility application
Industrial sewer connection application
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL APPLICATION
To the Village of Herscher, Illinois:
A.THE UNDERSIGNED, being the of
(Owner, Owner's Agent)
the property located at
(Number) (Street)
DOES HEREBY REQUEST a permit to install sanitary
sewage disposal facilities to serve the
(Residence, Commercial Building)
at said location.
      1.   The proposed facilities include:
                                                                  
to be constructed in complete accordance with the Plans and Specifications
attached hereunto as Exhibit "A".
      2.   The area of the property is square feet (or square meters).
      3.   The name and address of the person who will perform this work is:
.
      4.   The maximum number of persons to be served by the proposed
facilities is .
      5.   The locations and nature of all sources of private or public water
supply within one hundred feet (100') (30.5 meters) of any boundary of said
property are shown on the Plat attached hereunto as Exhibit "B".
B.In consideration of granting this permit, THE UNDERSIGNED
AGREES:
      1.   To furnish any additional information relating to the proposed work
that shall be requested by the chairman of the Sewer Committee of the Village
Board.
      2.   To accept and abide by all provisions of the Village Code of the
Village of Herscher, Illinois, and of all other pertinent ordinances or
regulations that may be adopted in the future.
      3.   To operate and maintain the wastewater disposal facilities covered
by this application in a sanitary manner at all times, in compliance with all
requirements of the Village and at no expense to the Village.
      4.   That in the event services of the Herscher Wastewater Collection
System Management are extended to within the stipulated distances of the
property, the private sewage disposal facility will be modified at the owner's
expense and connected to the public sewerage facilities in accordance with
applicable ordinances and that after such connection is approved by the
chairman of the Sewer Committee of the Village Board.
      5.   To notify the chairman of the Sewer Committee of the Village Board
at least twenty four (24) hours prior to commencement of the work proposed, and
again at least twenty four (24) hours prior to the covering of any underground
portions of the installation.
DATE:SIGNED:
(Applicant)
                                                                  
(Address of Applicant)
$ Permit and Inspection Fee paid.
                                                                  
(Certification by Village Clerk)
Inspection completed:
DATE:BY:
(Inspector)
Application approved and Permit issued:
DATE:BY:
(Chairman of the Sewer Committee)
*RESIDENTIAL BUILDING SEWER AND SEWERAGE
FACILITY APPLICATION
To the Village of Herscher, Illinois:
A.THE UNDERSIGNED, being the
(Owner, Owner's Agent)
of the property located at
(Number) (Street)
DOES HEREBY REQUEST a permit to install and
connect a building sewer to serve the
(Residence)
at said location.
      1.   The following indicated fixtures will be connected to the proposed
sewerage facilities:
NumberFixturesNumberFixtures
Kitchen SinksToilets
LavatoriesBath Tubs
Laundry TubsShowers
UrinalsGarbage Grinders
Specify other fixtures .
      2.   The maximum number of persons who will use the above fixtures .
      3.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the
proposed work is.
B.In consideration of the granting of this Permit, THE UNDERSIGNED
AGREES:
      1.   To accept and abide by all provisions of the Village Code of the
Village of Herscher, Illinois and of all other pertinent ordinances or
regulations that may be adopted in the future.
      2.   To maintain the total building sewer to the point of connection to
the public sewer at no expense to the Village.
      3.   To notify the chairman of the Sewer Committee of the Village Board
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer, but before any portion of the work is covered.
DATE:SIGNED:
(Applicant)
                                                                  
(Address of Applicant)
$ Permit and Inspection Fee paid.
                                                                  
(Certification by Village Clerk)
Inspection completed:
DATE:BY:
(Inspector)
Application approved and Permit issued:
DATE:BY:
(Chairman of the Sewer Committee)
*COMMERCIAL BUILDING SEWER AND SEWERAGE
FACILITY APPLICATION
To the Village of Herscher, Illinois:
A.THE UNDERSIGNED, being the
(Owner, Lessee, Tenant, etc.)
of the property located at
(Number) (Street)
DOES HEREBY REQUEST a permit toa commercial
(install, use)
building sewer connection serving the which
(Company)
company is engaged inat said location.
(Type of Operation)
      1.   A plat of the property showing accurately all sewers and drains now
existing is attached hereunto as Exhibit "A".
      2.   Plans and specifications covering any work proposed to be performed
under this permit is attached hereunto as Exhibit "B".
      3.   The following indicated fixtures will be connected to the proposed
building sewer:
NumberFixturesNumberFixtures
Kitchen SinksToilets
LavatoriesBath Tubs
Laundry TubsShowers
UrinalsGarbage Grinders
Specify other fixtures .
      4.   The estimated number of employees who will use the above fixtures is
.
      5.   The estimated number of occupants (transients) who will use the
above fixtures is.
      6.   The estimated wastewater characteristics, resulting from the use of
the fixtures indicated above, in terms of population equivalents (one
population equivalent is 100 gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds
of BOD and 0.20 pounds of suspended solids), are Flow P.E. ; BOD P.E. ;
Suspended Solids P.E. .
      7.   If wastewater will be produced through sources other than the
fixtures indicated above, submit a completed schedule of the additional
wastewater produced at said property, including a description of the character
of each waste, the daily volume and maximum rates of discharge, and
representative analyses as Exhibit "C" and attached hereunto.
      8.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the work
covered by this permit is
.
B.In consideration of the granting of this permit, the UNDERSIGNED
AGREES:
      1.   To furnish any additional information relating to the installation
or use of the commercial building sewer for which this permit is sought as may
be requested by the Water and Sewer Committee of the Village Board.
      2.   To operate and maintain a control manhole and any waste pretreatment
facilities as may be required as a condition of the acceptance into the public
sewerage facilities the wastes involved in an efficient manner at all times,
and at no expense to the Village.
      3.   To cooperate at all times with the chairman of the Sewer committee
of the Village Board and his representative in their inspecting, sampling, and
study of the industrial wastes, and any facilities provided for pretreatment.
      4.   To accept and provide by all provisions of the Village Code of the
Village of Herscher, Illinois, and all other pertinent ordinances or
regulations that may be adopted in the future.
      5.   To notify the chairman of the Sewer Committee of the Village Board
immediately in the event of any accident, negligence, or other occurrence that
occasions discharge to the public sewers of any wastes or process waters not
covered by this permit.
      6.   To notify the chairman of the Sewer Committee of the Village Board
when the commercial building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to
the public sewer, but before any portion of the work is covered.
DATE:SIGNED:
(Applicant)
                                                                  
(Address of Applicant)
$ Permit and Inspection Fee paid.
                                                                  
(Certification by Village Clerk)
Inspection completed:
DATE:BY:
(Inspector)
Application approved and Permit issued:
DATE:BY:
(Chairman of the Sewer Committee)
*INDUSTRIAL SEWER CONNECTION APPLICATION
To the Village of Herscher, Illinois:
A.THE UNDERSIGNED, being the
(Owner, Lessee, Tenant, etc.)
of the property located at
(Number) (Street)
DOES HEREBY REQUEST a permit to an industrial
(install, use)
sewer connection and sewerage facilities serving the
(Company)
which company is engaged in
at said location.
(Type of Industrial Operation)
      1.   A plat of the property showing accurately all sewers and drains now
existing is attached hereunto as Exhibit "A".
      2.   Plans and specifications covering any work proposed to be performed
under this permit is attached hereunto as Exhibit "B".
      3.   A complete schedule of all process waters and industrial wastes
produced or expected to be produced at said property, including a description
of the character of each waste, the daily volume and maximum rates of
discharge, and representative analyses, is attached hereunto as Exhibit "C".
      4.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the work
covered by this permit is
.
B.In consideration of the granting of this permit, THE UNDERSIGNED
AGREES:
      1.   To furnish any additional information relating to the installation
or use of the industrial sewer for which this permit is sought as may be
requested by the chairman of the Sewer Committee of the Village Board.
      2.   To operate and maintain a control manhole and any waste pretreatment
facilities as may be required as a condition of the acceptance into the public
sewer of the industrial wastes involved in an efficient manner at all times,
and at no expense to the Village.
      3.   To cooperate at all times with the chairman of the Water and Sewer
Committee of the Village Board and his representative in their inspecting,
sampling, and study of the industrial wastes, and any facilities provided for
pretreatment.
      4.   To accept and abide by all provisions of the Village Code of the
Village of Herscher, Illinois, and all other pertinent ordinances or
regulations that may be adopted in the future.
      5.   That after such industrial sewer and sewerage facilities are
installed and approved by the chairman of the Sewer Committee of the Village
Board, ownership of the sewerage facilities from the point of discharge of the
industrial sewer shall be transferred to the Village at no expense to the
Village.
      6.   To notify the chairman of the Sewer Committee of the Village Board
immediately in event of any accident, negligence, or other occurrence that
occasions discharge to the public sewers of any wastes or process waters not
covered by this permit.
      7.   To notify the chairman of the Sewer Committee of the Village Board
when the industrial building sewer and sewerage facilities are ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer, but before any portion of the
work is covered.
DATE:SIGNED:
(Applicant)
                                                                  
(Address of Applicant)
$ Permit and Inspection Fee paid.
                                                                  
(Certification by Village Clerk)
Inspection completed:
DATE:BY:
(Inspector)
Application approved and Permit issued:
DATE:BY:
(Chairman of the Sewer Committee)
*APPENDIX NO. 2
Typical Building Sewer Connection to Public Sewer
[IMAGE]
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Permit Required; Application
5-3-2: Issuance of Permits
5-3-3: Insurance and Deposit Requirements
5-3-4: Barricades and Lights
5-3-5: Routing of Traffic
5-3-6: Manner of Excavation
5-3-7: Excavation Restoration
5-3-8: Supervision and Inspection
5-3-9: Exemptions
5-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make any excavation in any street,
alley, parkway or other public place in the Village without having first
obtained a permit as herein required, and without complying with the provisions
of this Chapter.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the Chairman of the Streets and
Alleys Committee of the Village Board (hereinafter referred to as "Chairman"),
and shall describe the location of the intended excavation, the size thereof,
the purpose therefor, the person doing the actual excavating work, and the name
of the person for whom the work is being done. The application shall also
contain an agreement that the application will comply with all ordinances
relating to the work.
5-3-2: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
Permits complying with this Chapter shall be issued by the Chairman or his duly
authorized agent.
5-3-3: INSURANCE AND DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No such permit shall be issued unless the applicant has filed with the
Chairman an insurance certificate which holds the Village harmless from any
loss, liability or damage claims that may result or accrue from or become of
the making, existence or manner of such excavation. Its certificate shall show
the Village as party to the insured in amounts not less than three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for all damages arising out of bodily injuries
to or death of one person and subject to that limit for each person, a total
amount of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for all damages arising
out of bodily injuries to or death of two (2) or more persons in any one
accident, and regular contractors' property damage liability insurance,
including automobile coverage, in limits of not less than three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for all damages arising out of injury to or
destruction of property in any one accident and, subject to that limit per
accident, a total (or aggregate) limit of five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) for all damages arising out of injury to or destruction of
property during the policy period.
   B.   Deposits:
      1.   No such permit shall be issued until the applicant therefor has
deposited with the Village Clerk a cash deposit of five hundred dollars
($500.00). The deposit is to insure the proper restoration of the ground and
pavement. If the applicant fails to restore the excavation site promptly, the
Village shall use the five hundred dollar ($500.00) deposit for the restoration
work. The five hundred dollar ($500.00) deposit shall cover all street
excavations of the contractor-depositor so long as the contractor is not in
default in his obligation to restore. If it becomes necessary to use all or any
portion of said deposit for restoration, then the cash deposit of said
contractor shall be increased to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for all
future excavations. If thereafter the said contractor is not in default for a
three (3) year period, the deposit will be reduced to five hundred dollars
($500.00).
      2.   The cash bond shall remain on deposit until the completion of any
restoration work involving a street excavation. If the restoration, at that
time, is satisfactory, the cash bond shall be returned to the contractor,
provided said bond is not required as security for other pending work of said
contractor.
      3.   In the event the cash bond is not adequate to complete the
restoration work, the contractor shall be responsible for the deficiency.
      4.   In addition to the cash bond, the contractor doing the excavation
work shall, by written agreement, guarantee the sufficiency of his restoration
work for a period of one year from the date of the completion of the
restoration.
5-3-4: BARRICADES AND LIGHTS:
Any person making or maintaining any excavation in any public area shall keep
the same adequately guarded by barricades and lights to protect persons and
property from injury. The placement and maintenance of barricades shall conform
to the State of Illinois Department of Transportation Standard Specifications
for Road and Bridge Construction.
5-3-5: ROUTING OF TRAFFIC:
Traffic access on the public streets shall be maintained at all times by the
contractor performing the excavation, unless the Chairman authorizes the
closing of a street. If for good and sufficient reasons the street must be
closed to traffic, the contractor may request in writing to the Chairman a
permit for the street closing. If the Chairman determines such closing is
warranted, a permit will be issued for street closing, for a period not to
exceed seventy two (72) hours. The contractor shall apply for an extension of
the permit for seventy two (72) additional hours. The contractor shall provide
all signs and barricades necessary to re-route traffic.
5-3-6: MANNER OF EXCAVATION:
   A.   Generally: It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in any way
contrary to or in violation of the terms of the permit. Proper bracing shall be
maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground and the excavation shall
not have anywhere below the surface any portion which extends beyond the
opening at the surface. Bricks which form the surface of the street will be
lifted in such a way as not to be broken and stored in a locked or guarded
place, in such a way as to be available for use in replacing the surface.
No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or conduits which in any way may
be endangered or affected by the making of such excavation. The contractor
shall be responsible for notifying all public utilities of its intent to
excavate.
No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any trees, shrubs or the roots
thereof. Tunneling is prohibited.
   B.   Sidewalks: If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary
sidewalk shall be constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and
convenient for users.
   C.   Time Limit: Each permit for excavation shall be for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days after the commencement of work. If at the time of the
application it is known that the restoration and excavation will exceed this
period, then it must be so stated on the permit and approved by the Chairman.
   D.   Restoring Surface: Any person making an excavation in any public
street, alley, parkway or public place shall restore the surface. For parkways,
black dirt and seed will be the standard. Brick surfaces will be replaced with
brick of the type and color approved by the chairman. In all other respects the
surface shall be restored to its original condition. (1983 Code)
5-3-7: EXCAVATION RESTORATION:
All holes or trenches in the street are to be saw cut and the width of the cut
in the pavement must exceed the width of the excavation by at least one foot
(1'), which shall be tamped and compacted before proceeding with the next
layer.
When the pavement is replaced the patch must bear on undisturbed earth a
minimum of one foot (1') on all sides. If the existing pavement is concrete,
the patch shall be concrete the same thickness as the original, reinforced with
six by six (6 x 6) number ten by number ten (10 x 10) welded wire fabric. If
the existing pavement is bituminous asphalt, the patch shall be composed of
eight inches (8") of concrete reinforced with six by six (6 x 6) number ten by
number ten (10 x 10) wire fabric. The top of the concrete shall be depressed
two inches (2") to allow for a bituminous concrete surface course which shall
be placed and compacted level with the existing pavement surface. If the base
construction is bituminous concrete, then the full depth of the patch must be
replaced with bituminous concrete in compacted layers.
Any openings in a paved area of a street shall be repaired and the surface
relaid by the permittee in compliance with this chapter and subject to the
supervision of the chairman. If such work is not done within thirty (30) days
after restoration is possible, the village may restore the surface and charge
the cost thereof to the permittee. (1983 Code)
5-3-8: SUPERVISION AND INSPECTION:
The chairman, or his agent, shall inspect all excavations in the village. The
contractor shall notify the chairman at least twenty four (24) hours before the
commencement of any excavation and shall call the chairman for inspection of
the backfilling operation as it progresses and inspection of the T patch before
it is poured or placed. (1983 Code)
5-3-9: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter relative to securing permits shall not apply to
officers, contractors or employees of the village engaged in doing work for the
village, nor to persons or corporations which are operating under a franchise
or grant from the village if such franchise provides for the making of
excavations without securing a permit therefor. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC PARKS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Hours Of Usage
5-4-1: HOURS OF USAGE:
It shall be unlawful for a person of any age to be present upon any public park
located in the village of Herscher other than the listed hours below:
   A.   Summer Hours: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until ten thirty o'clock
(10:30) P.M. from May 1 until September 30.
   B.   Winter Hours: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until eight thirty o'clock
(8:30) P.M. from October 1 to April 30. Special permits can be approved by the
village board or police chief.
   C.   Parking of motor vehicles in all village parks is hereby prohibited
between the hours of eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. to six o’clock (6:00) A.M.
(Ord. 98-6, 9-21-1998; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023; Ord. 24-03, 8-20-2024)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Prohibited Acts
5-5-2: Replacement
5-5-3: Village Sections Defined
5-5-4: Grass Clippings And Leaves
5-5-1: PROHIBITED ACTS:
No shade or ornamental trees, shrubbery, fence, lawn ornaments, or landscaping
other than grass or similar improvements shall be planted or placed on or
within any public right of way in the new section of the village of Herscher.
For the definition of old and new sections of the village of Herscher see
section
5-5-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 03-1, 2-3-2003)
5-5-2: REPLACEMENT:
Replacement of shade trees, ornamental trees, and shrubbery will be permitted
only in the old section of the village of Herscher. No fence replacement will
be permitted on easement. (Ord. 03-1, 2-3-2003)
5-5-3: VILLAGE SECTIONS DEFINED:
The old section of the village of Herscher is from Park Road on the east to Elm
Street on the west; from State Route 115 on the north to Walnut Avenue on the
south. Included in the old section, south of Walnut, would be the six (6) homes
in the 300 block of South Elm, the six (6) homes in the 300 block of South Oak
Avenue, 301, 321, 331, 300, 320, 340, and 360 on South Main. The remainder of
the village is considered as the new section of the village. (Ord. 03-1, 2-3-
2003)
5-5-4: GRASS CLIPPINGS AND LEAVES:
It shall be unlawful to blow grass or place clippings and/or leaves into the
curbing and streets when mowing the lawn or raking or blowing leaves within the
village of Herscher. In the event clippings or leaves are placed or blown into
the street or curbing, the clippings shall be removed within one (1) hour of
the time the clippings or leaves are placed in the street or curbing.
The first violation of such offense shall result in a written warning issued by
the code enforcement officer. The second violation shall result in a written
ticket issued by the code enforcement officer with a twenty five dollar
($25.00) fine payable to the village of Herscher. The third violation shall
result in a written ticket issued by the code enforcement officer with a thirty
five dollar ($35.00) fine payable to the village of Herscher. Finally, the
fourth violation shall result in a written ticket issued by the code
enforcement officer with a fifty dollar ($50.00) fine payable to the village of
Herscher.
The code enforcement officer shall deposit all funds collected with the village
treasurer. (Ord. 03-8, 7-7-2003; amd. Ord. 23-18, 12-18-2023)
TITLE 6
HEALTH AND SANITATION
Nuisances   1
Chronic Nuisance Properties   1A
Maintenance Of Private Property   1B
Litter Regulations   2
Garbage Collection And Disposal   3
Weeds   4
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
6-1-1: Nuisances Enumerated; Prohibition
6-1-2: Abatement Of Nuisances
6-1-1: NUISANCES ENUMERATED; PROHIBITION:
The following acts, conduct and conditions are hereby declared and defined to
be nuisances, and when committed, performed or permitted to exist by any
individual, firm, association or corporation within the territorial limits of
the village are hereby declared to be unlawful and prohibited:
   A.   Any act or offense which is a nuisance according to the common law of
the state of Illinois or declared or defined to be a nuisance by the ordinances
of the village. In addition, the officials of the municipality shall be
authorized to abate any nuisance which, while not specifically defined within
this chapter, shall constitute the unreasonable, unwarrantable, or unlawful use
by a person of property real or personal or from his own improper, indecent or
unlawful personal conduct which works an obstruction or injury to a right of
another, or of the public, and produces such material annoyance, inconvenience,
discomfort or hurt that the law will presume an actionable nuisance. Nuisances
may be abated which are public or which are both public and private in nature.
   B.   To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth or
noisome substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any place under
his ownership or control to the prejudice of others.
   C.   To throw or deposit any offal or other offensive matter or the carcass
of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well or common
sewer, street or public highway.
   D.   To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water of any spring,
river, stream, pond or lake, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   E.   To obstruct or encroach upon public highways, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, and ways to burying places.
   F.   To erect, continue or use any building or other place for the exercise
of any trade, employment or manufacture, which, by occasioning noxious
exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or dangerous to the
health of individuals or of the public.
   G.   To advertise wares or occupation by painting notices of the same on, or
affixing them to fences, walls, windows, building exteriors, utility poles, or
on hydrants, other public or private property, or on rocks or other natural
objects, without the consent of the owner, or if in the highway or other public
place, without permission of the proper authorities.
   H.   To harass, intimidate or threaten any person who is about to sell or
lease or has sold or leased a residence or other real property or is about to
buy or lease or has bought or leased a residence or other real property, when
the harassment, intimidation or threat relates to a person's attempt to sell,
buy or lease a residence or other real property, or refers to a person's sale,
purchase or lease of a residence or other real property.
   I.   To dump, abandon, deposit, dismantle or burn upon any public property
or right of way, highway, park, street or parkway anywhere in the village any
trash, garbage, ashes, junk, junked or wrecked motor vehicles or parts thereof,
or miscellaneous waste.
   J.   To store, keep or maintain outside of a closed building any junk,
parts, machinery or equipment not in an operable condition, or motor vehicle
not in an operable condition, where such inoperable motor vehicle is an actual
danger or detriment to life, safety, health or peaceful enjoyment of the
property of surrounding landowners; provided, however, that this provision
shall not apply to a properly licensed junkyard or other permitted outdoor
storage use which is in full compliance with all of the ordinances of the
village governing the same.
   K.   To own, maintain or keep a dwelling unit unfit for human habitation, or
dangerous or detrimental to life, safety or health because of lack of repair,
defects in the plumbing system, lighting or ventilation, the existence of
contagious diseases or unsanitary conditions likely to cause sickness among
persons residing in said premises or residing in proximity thereof.
   L.   To store or place any materials in a manner which may harbor rats.
   M.   To produce or permit to be produced, whether on public or private
property, any offensive noise to the disturbance of the peace or quiet of any
person residing in the vicinity. (1983 Code)
   N.   To stockpile firewood unless same is stacked in an orderly fashion, off
the ground, and on a hard surface. "Hard surface" is defined as steel framework
or heavy planking properly supported to avoid sagging. The amount of firewood
stockpiled shall not exceed two (2) cords and will be stored in the rear or
side yards. (Ord. 04-2, 1-5-2004)
   O.   To grade, fill, excavate or otherwise alter real property in a manner
which causes an unreasonable amount of water to be discharged on adjoining
property. (1983 Code)
   P.   No person, within the village limits of Herscher, shall be permitted to
store or let exist, any substance, which emits an offensive odor or is
conducive to inviting rodents, which can create a safety hazard. This would
include such things as wet or rotten hay, grass clippings, leaves or garbage in
general.
Once these items have reached a point of emitting an offensive odor, they
cannot be disposed of by burning.
Any person violating this subsection P will be fined not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). After ninety
(90) days, the village will petition the court to put a lien on the property
for court cost and cleanup. The village will reserve the right to secure
outside contractual services at the owner's/violator's expense. (Ord. 04-2, 1-
5-2004)
6-1-2: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
   A.   Nonsummary Abatement; Notice: Except where otherwise provided by the
ordinances of the village, any officer of the village possessing police powers
may serve or cause to be served a notice, in writing, upon the owner, agent,
occupant or person in possession, charge or control of any lot, building or
premises or item of personalty in or upon which any nuisance exists, requiring
such person to abate the same within a specified reasonable time, in such
manner as the notice shall direct. If the person so served and notified does
not abate the nuisance within the specified reasonable time, the corporate
authorities may proceed to abate the nuisance in any manner allowable by law,
including, without limiting the generality thereof, the following:
      1.   Seeking to impose a monetary penalty under section
1-4-1 of this code by instituting an ordinance enforcement action.
      2.   Seeking to enjoin the continuation of the nuisance by the filing of
a lawsuit in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Summary Abatement: Whenever, in the opinion of an officer of the
village possessing police powers, the maintenance or continuation of a nuisance
creates an imminent threat of serious injury to persons or serious damage to
person or real property, or if the nuisance can be abated summarily without or
with only minor damage to the items or premises which are creating the
nuisance, and the continuation of the nuisance poses a substantial threat of
injury to person or property or substantial interference with the quiet
enjoyment of life normally present in the community, such officer shall proceed
to abate such nuisance. Whenever the owner, occupant, agent or person in
possession, charge or control of the real or personal property which has become
a nuisance is unknown or cannot readily be found, the municipal officer with
police power may proceed to abate such nuisance without notice. Where the
abatement of the nuisance requires continuing acts by the corporate authorities
beyond the initial summary abatement and any other additional emergency
abatements, the village shall seek abatement of such nuisance on a permanent
basis through judicial process as soon as reasonably possible. (1983 Code)
ARTICLE A. CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES
SECTION:
6-1A-1: Purpose
6-1A-2: Definitions
6-1A-3: Remedy
6-1A-4: Abatement Of Nuisance
6-1A-5: Procedure
6-1A-6: Commencement Of Action, Burden Of Proof
6-1A-7: Emergency Closing Procedures
6-1A-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Any certain property within the village of Herscher which becomes a
chronic nuisance property is in violation of this article and is subject to its
remedies.
   B.   Any person in charge who permits property under his or her ownership or
control to be a public nuisance shall be in violation of this article and
subject to its remedies. (Ord. 02-6, 3-4-2002)
6-1A-2: DEFINITIONS:
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY: Property upon which three (3) or more behaviors
listed below have occurred during any sixty (60) day period, as a result of any
three (3) separate factual events that have been independently investigated by
any law enforcement agency:
   A.   Disorderly conduct as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/26-1.
   B.   Unlawful use of weapons as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
24-1 et seq.
   C.   Mob action as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/25-1.
   D.   Discharge of a firearm as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
24-1.2 and 5/24-1.2-5.
   E.   Gambling as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1.
   F.   Possession, manufacture, or delivery of controlled substances as
defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/401 et seq.
   G.   Assault, battery, domestic violence or any related offense as defined
in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-1 et seq.
   H.   Sexual abuse or related offense as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-1.50.
   I.   Public indecency as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-30.
   J.   Prostitution as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14 et
seq.
   K.   Criminal damage to property as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-1 et seq.
   L.   Possession, cultivation, manufacture, or delivery of cannabis as
defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq.
   M.   Illegal consumption or possession of alcohol as defined in 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.
   N.   Violation of this code relative to garbage, weeds, or abandoned
vehicles.
CONTROL: The ability to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract, or govern
conduct that occurs on that property.
OWNER: Any person, agent, firm, or corporation having any legal or equitable
interest in the property. Owner includes, but is not limited to: a) a mortgagee
in possession in who is vested: 1) all or part of the legal title to the
property; or 2) all or part of the beneficial ownership and the right to the
present use and enjoyment of the premises; or b) an occupant who can control
what occurs on the property.
PERMIT: To suffer, allow, consent to, acquiesce by failure to prevent, or
expressly assent or agree to the doing of an act.
PERSON: Any natural person, association, partnership, or corporation capable of
owning or using property in the village of Herscher.
PERSON IN CHARGE: Any person in actual or constructive possession of a
property, including, but not limited to, an owner, occupant of property under
his or her domain, ownership, or control.
PROPERTY: Any real property, including land in that which is affixed,
incidental, or pertinent to land, including, but not limited to, any premises,
room, house, building, or structure or any separate part or portion thereof,
whether permitted or not. (Ord. 11-17, 8-15-2011)
6-1A-3: REMEDY:
   A.   In the event a court determines property to be a chronic nuisance
property, the court may order that the property be closed and secured against
all use and occupancy for a period of not less than thirty (30) days, but not
more than one hundred eighty (180) days, or the court may employ any other
remedy deemed by it to be appropriate to abate the nuisance.
   B.   In addition to the remedy provided in subsection A of this section, the
court may impose upon the owner of the property a civil penalty in the amount
of up to one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day, payable to the village of
Herscher for each day the owner had actual knowledge that the property was a
public nuisance property and permitted the property to remain public nuisance
property.
   C.   In determining what remedy or remedies shall employ, the court may
consider evidence of other conduct which has occurred on the property,
including, but not limited to:
      1.   The disturbance of neighbors.
      2.   The recurrence of loud and obnoxious noises.
      3.   Repeated consumption of alcohol in public. (Ord. 02-6, 3-4-2002)
6-1A-4: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
The corporation counsel of the village of Herscher or the states attorney of
Kankakee County may commence an action to abate public nuisance as described
above. Upon being satisfied of affidavits or other sworn evidence that an
alleged public nuisance exists, the court may without notice or bond enter a
temporary restraining order or a preliminary injunction to enjoin any defendant
from maintaining such nuisance and may enter an order restraining any defendant
from removing or interfering with all property used in connection with the
public nuisance. (Ord. 02-6, 3-4-2002)
6-1A-5: PROCEDURE:
When the chief of police of the village of Herscher receives two (2) or more
police reports documenting the occurrence of nuisance activity on or within a
property, the chief of police shall independently review such reports to
determine whether they describe criminal acts. Upon such findings, the chief
may:
   A.   Notify the person in charge in writing that the property is in danger
of becoming a chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the property.
      2.   A statement that the chief of police has information that the
property may be a chronic nuisance property, with a concise description of the
nuisance activities that may exist, or that have occurred. The chief of police
shall offer the person in charge an opportunity to propose a course of action
that the chief of police agrees will abate the nuisance activities giving rise
to the violation.
      3.   Demand that the person in charge respond to the chief of police
within ten (10) days to discuss the nuisance activities.
   B.   After complying with the notification procedures described herein, when
the chief of police receives a police report documenting the occurrence of a
third nuisance activity at or within a property and determines that the
property has become a chronic nuisance property, the chief of police shall:
      1.   Notify the person in charge in writing that the property has been
determined to be a chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain the
following information:
         a.   The street address or legal description sufficient for
identification of the property.
         b.   A statement that the chief of police has determined the property
to be chronic nuisance property with a concise description of the nuisance
activities leading to his/her findings.
         c.   Demand that the person in charge respond within ten (10) days to
the chief of police and propose a course of action that the chief of police
agrees will abate the nuisance.
         d.   Service shall be made either personally or by first class mail,
postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the person in charge at
the address of the property believed to be a chronic nuisance property, or such
other place which the person in charge is known to be. (Ord. 02-6, 3-4-2002)
6-1A-6: COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION, BURDEN OF PROOF:
   A.   In an action seeking closure of a chronic nuisance property, the
village shall have the initial burden of showing by preponderance of the
evidence that the property is a chronic nuisance property.
   B.   It is a defense to an action seeking the closure of chronic nuisance
property that the owner of the property at the time in question could not, in
the exercise of reasonable care and diligence, determine that the property had
become a public nuisance property, or could not, in spite of the exercise of
reasonable care and diligence, control the conduct leading to the findings that
the property is a chronic nuisance property.
   C.   In establishing the amount of civil penalty requested, the court may
consider any of the following factors if they need to be found appropriate, and
shall cite those found applicable:
      1.   The actions or lack of action taken by the person in charge to
mitigate or correct the problem at the property.
      2.   Whether the problem at the property was repeated or continuous.
      3.   The magnitude or gravity of the problem.
      4.   The cooperation of the person in charge with the village.
      5.   The cost of the village investigating and correcting or attempting
to correct the condition. (Ord. 02-6, 3-4-2002)
6-1A-7: EMERGENCY CLOSING PROCEDURES:
   A.   In the event that it is determined that the property is an immediate
threat to the public safety and welfare, the village may apply to the court for
such interim relief, as is deemed by the chief of police to be appropriate. In
such an event, the notification provision set forth in section
6-1A-5 of this article need not be complied with; however, the village shall
make a diligent effort to notify the person in charge prior to a court hearing.
   B.   In the event that the court finds the property constitutes a "chronic
nuisance property" as defined in this article, the court may order the remedy
set out above. In addition, in the event that it also finds the person in
charge had knowledge of activities or conditions of the property constituting
or violating this article and permitted the activities to occur, the court may
assess a civil fine as provided above.
   C.   The court may authorize the village of Herscher to physically secure
the property against use or occupancy in the event the owner fails to do so
within the time specified by the court. In the event that the village is
authorized to secure the property, all costs reasonably incurred by the village
to effect a closure shall be made and assessed as a lien against the property.
If used herein, "costs" mean those costs actually incurred by the village for
the physical securing of the property, as well as tenant relocation costs.
   D.   The village of Herscher public works department effecting the closure
shall prepare a statement of cost and the village of Herscher shall thereafter
submit said statement to the court for its review. If no objection of the
statement is made within the period described by the court, a lien in said
amount may be recorded against said property.
   E.   Any person who is assigned the cost of closure and/or civil penalty by
the court shall be personally liable for the payment thereof by the village.
   F.   A tenant is entitled to their reasonable relocation costs, as those are
determined by the court if, without actual notice, the tenant moved into the
property, after either:
      1.   The owner or tenant received notice as described herein of the
police chief's determination as described above.
      2.   Unknown owner or other agent received notice of an action brought
pursuant to this article.
      3.   Any person who is assessed with costs of closure and/or civil
penalty by the court shall be personally liable for the payment thereof to the
village. (Ord. 02-6, 3-4-2002)
ARTICLE B. MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-1B-1: Definitions
6-1B-2: Duty Of Maintenance Of Private Property
6-1B-3: Exterior Storage Prohibited
6-1B-4: Notice To Abate
6-1B-5: Penalty For Failure To Abate
6-1B-6: Abatement By Village
6-1B-7: Violation; Penalty
6-1B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following terms are hereby defined:
DANGEROUS BUILDING: Shall mean and include:
   A.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which is dangerous
to the public health because of its construction or condition, or which may
cause or aid in the spread of disease or cause injury to the health of the
occupants of it or of neighboring structures;
   B.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, because of
faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause, is
especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
   C.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, because of
its condition or because of lack of doors or windows is available to and
frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful occupants of
said structures.
NUISANCE: Any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which is
detrimental to the property of others or which causes or tends to cause
substantial diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which such premises are located. This includes, but is not limited to, the
keeping or the depositing on, or the scattering over the premises of any of the
following:
   A.   Lumber, junk, trash or debris;
   B.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers.
(Ord. 07-7, 6-18-2007)
6-1B-2: DUTY OF MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY:
No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall any such person keep or
maintain such premises in a manner causing substantial devaluation of other
property in the neighborhood in which such premises are located. To prevent the
devaluation of other property, the following minimum standards must be met at
all times:
   A.   Foundations, Exterior Walls And Roofs: Every foundation, exterior wall
and roof of every building shall be substantially weathertight, watertight and
rodentproof; shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be kept
free of holes or breaks and of loose or rotting boards, timbers, bricks, stones
and other structural material; and shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   B.   Exterior Surfaces: All exterior surfaces of any building shall be
reasonably capable of withstanding the effects of the elements and decay. Any
exterior surface, which is deteriorated, decaying, disintegrating or which has
lost its capability to reasonably withstand the effects of the elements shall
be replaced.
   C.   Windows And Exterior Doors: Every window, exterior door, basement or
cellar door and hatchway shall be generally weathertight and rodentproof; shall
be equipped with all appropriate hardware; shall be capable of being easily
opened unless designed to be fixed; and all windows, exterior doors and screens
shall be kept in good repair.
   D.   Stairways And Porches: Every inside and outside stairway and porch and
every appurtenance thereto shall be maintained in a good state of repair and
free from rotting, loose, or deteriorating supports, rails, floors and stairs
so as to be safe to use and capable of supporting the loads that normal use may
cause to be placed thereon.
   E.   Accessory Structures: All garages, toolsheds and all other accessory
structures shall be kept in good repair so as not to be unsafe or a harborage
for rats and other rodents.
   F.   Driveways And Walkways: Cement or asphalt driveways and parking areas
shall be maintained free of loose or broken material, cracks which are safety
hazards and such driveways and parking areas shall be repaired as necessary to
avoid safety hazards. Stone driveways, walkways and parking areas shall be
maintained in forms designed to prevent the spread of gravel to public ways,
easements and adjoining private property.
   G.   Gutters And Downspouts: All gutters and downspouts shall be maintained
free of debris which might prevent their proper functioning and shall not be
allowed to discharge in a manner which might create unnecessary erosion. All
gutters and downspouts shall be securely fastened to the building which they
serve.
   H.   Fences And Mailboxes: Fences and roadside mailboxes shall be maintained
in good repair, solid and in the same condition required for other exterior
surfaces.
   I.   Protective Railings: Any handrails, guardrails or other types of
protective railings required to be constructed or installed under any provision
of this code or which have otherwise been constructed and installed shall be
maintained in good repair.
   J.   It shall be the responsibility of any owner of property and any person
in possession of property located in the Village of Herscher to maintain and
mow the area between the sidewalk and the curb, known as the “parkway” which is
contiguous or adjacent to the property so owned or possessed and/or the area of
any other public easement which is contiguous to and adjacent to said privately
owned property and to assure that no vegetation, grass, or plants are allowed
to grow to a height exceeding five (5) inches on said parkway or easement. In
the event that said vegetation is allowed to grow to a height in excess of five
(5) inches, the village shall send a notice to the owner or the person in
possession and may require the condition to be remediated in three (3) days. In
the event that the condition is not remediated within three (3) days, the
village may mow the property and lien the property owned or possessed for the
amount of the cost of the mowing. (Ord. 07-7, 6-18-2007; amd. Ord. 24-05, 10-7-
2024)
6-1B-3: EXTERIOR STORAGE PROHIBITED:
No person, in charge of or in control of premises, whether as owner, lessee,
tenant, occupant or otherwise, shall allow any lumber, junk, trash, debris,
abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as furniture, stoves,
refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers to remain on such property longer
than five (5) days. (Ord. 07-7, 6-18-2007)
6-1B-4: NOTICE TO ABATE:
Effective on the passage of this ordinance, the code enforcement officer is
hereby authorized and empowered to notify the person in control of any private
property, whether as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, or otherwise, to remove
from or to move to an enclosed area on the property, any lumber, junk, trash,
debris, abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as furniture,
stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans, containers, vehicles, equipment, tools
or other objects which are stored in violation of this Article. Said notice
shall allow the person in control seven (7) days to remove said property,
unless said property causes a dangerous condition, in which case the notice may
require the immediate removal of said property. Such notice shall be given in
person, or by certified or registered mail, addressed to the person occupying
and/or to the owner of the premises in question. (Ord. 07-7, 6-18-2007; amd.
Ord. 21-10. 9-20-2021)
6-1B-5: PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO ABATE:
If said person allows a "nuisance" to exist as defined in this article and
fails to abate said nuisance within the period allowed by this article, then,
upon conviction thereof, said person shall be fined not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which said nuisance is permitted to exist. (Ord. 07-7, 6-18-2007)
6-1B-6: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE:
In addition to the penalty provided for in section
6-1B-5 of this article, whenever any person fails to abate said nuisance within
the period allowed by section
6-1B-4 of this article, then the village shall cause the same to be abated, the
expenses thereof or to be billed to said owners jointly and severally, said
bill to be recoverable in a suit at law; and in addition, any person who by
reason of another's violation of any provision of this section suffers damage
to himself different from that suffered by other property owners throughout the
village generally may bring an action to enjoin or otherwise abate an existing
violation. (Ord. 07-7, 6-18-2007)
6-1B-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this article, or
permitting any dangerous building, or any building or structure to remain in a
dangerous condition, shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which violation
occurs or continues. (Ord. 07-7, 6-18-2007)
CHAPTER 2
LITTER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Placing Litter In Receptacles Required
6-2-3: Sidewalks To Be Kept Clear Of Litter
6-2-4: Throwing Litter From Vehicles
6-2-5: Truck Loads Causing Litter
6-2-6: Littering Parks
6-2-7: Private Property
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in
the plural number include the singular number and words used in the singular
number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not
merely directory.
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
LITTER: "Garbage", "refuse" and "rubbish" as defined herein and all other waste
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a
danger to public health, safety and welfare.
PARK: A park, playground, recreation center or any other public area in the
village, owned or used by the village and devoted to active or passive
recreation.
PERSON Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PRIVATE PREMISES Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed or
used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
PUBLIC PLACE Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other public
ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
REFUSE All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles, and solid market and industrial wastes.
RUBBISH Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
VEHICLE Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
VILLAGE The Village of Herscher, Illinois.
6-2-2: PLACING LITTER IN RECEPTACLES REQUIRED:
   A.   Litter in Public Places: No person shall throw or deposit litter in or
upon any street, sidewalk or other public place within the Village, except in
public receptacles, in private receptacles for collection or in official
Village dumps.
   B.   Placement of Litter in Receptacles so as to Prevent Scattering: Persons
placing litter in public receptacles or in private receptacles shall do so in
such manner as to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the elements
upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private property.
6-2-3: SIDEWALKS TO BE KEPT CLEAR OF LITTER:
   A.   Sweeping Litter Into Gutters Prohibited: No person shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the Village the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the
sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
   B.   Merchants' Duty to Keep Sidewalks Free of Litter: No person owning or
occupying a place of business shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street
or other public place within the Village, the accumulation of litter from any
building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons
owning or occupying places of business within the Village shall keep the
sidewalk in front of their business premises free of litter.
6-2-4: THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLES:
No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the Village or upon private
property.
6-2-5: TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER:
No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the Village
unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or
other public place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck
within the Village, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any
street, alley or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or
foreign matter of any kind.
6-2-6: LITTERING PARKS:
   A.   Litter in Parks: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park
within the Village, except in public receptacles and in such a manner that the
litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon
any part of the park or upon any street or other public place. Where public
receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the
park by the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed of
elsewhere as provided herein.
   B.   Litter in Bodies of Water: No person shall throw or deposit litter in
any fountain, pond, stream or any other body of water in a park or elsewhere
within the Village.
6-2-7: PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Litter on Occupied Private Property: No person shall throw or deposit
litter on any occupied private property within the Village, whether owned by
such person or not, except that the owner or person in control of private
property may maintain private receptacles for collection in such a manner that
litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon
any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property.
   B.   Owner to Maintain Premises Free of Litter: The owner or person in
control of any private premises shall, at all times, maintain the premises free
of litter; provided, however, that this subsection shall not prohibit the
storage of litter in private receptacles for collection.
   C.   Litter on Vacant Lots: No person shall throw or deposit litter on any
open or vacant private property within the Village whether owned by such person
or not. (Ord., no date)
   D.   Clearing of Litter From Open Private Property by Village:
      1.   Notice to Remove: The Police Chief is hereby authorized and
empowered to notify the owner of any open or vacant private property within the
Village or the agent of such owner to properly dispose of litter located on
such owner's property which is dangerous to public health, safety or welfare.
Such notice shall be by registered mail, addressed to said owner at the address
listed on the Village records or by affixing the same in a conspicuous position
on said premises.
      2.   Action Upon Noncompliance: Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of
any owner or agent so notified, to properly dispose of litter dangerous to the
public health, safety or welfare within ten (10) days after receipt of written
notice provided for in paragraph 1 herein, or within ten (10) days after the
posting of the premises as herein provided, the Police Chief is hereby
authorized and empowered to pay for the disposing of such litter or to order
its disposal by the Village.
      3.   Charge Included in Tax Bill: When the Village has effected the
removal of such dangerous litter or has paid for its removal, the actual cost
thereof, plus accrued interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum from
the date of the completion of the work if not paid by said owner prior thereto,
shall be charged to the owner of such property on the next regular water bill
forwarded to such owner by the Village, and said charge shall be due and
payable by said owner at the time of payment of such bill.
      4.   Recorded Statement Constitutes Lien: where the full amount due the
Village is not paid by such owner within sixty (60) days after the disposal of
such litter as provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 herein, then and in that
case, the Village Clerk shall cause to be recorded in the office of the County
Recorder of Deeds a sworn statement showing the cost and expense incurred for
the work, the date the work was done and the location of the property on which
said work was done. The recording of such sworn statement shall constitute a
lien and privilege on the property, ad shall remain in full force and effect
for the amount due in principal and interest, plus costs of court, if any, for
collection until final payment has been made. Said costs and expenses shall be
collected in the manner fixed by law for the collection of taxes and further
shall be subject to a delinquency penalty of ten percent (10%) in the event the
same is not paid in full on or before the date the tax bill upon which said
charge appears becomes delinquent. Sworn statements recorded in accordance with
the provisions hereof shall be prima facie evidence that all legal formalities
have been complied with and that the work has been done properly and
satisfactorily, and shall be full notice to every person concerned that the
amount of the statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge against the
property designated or described in the statement and that the same is due and
collectable as provided by law. (Ord., no date; amd. 1983 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Village To Provide Service
6-3-3: Collection Days
6-3-4: Service Charge
6-3-5: Requirement To Use Containers
6-3-6: Construction Of Containers
6-3-7: Placing Containers At Curbside Pick Up Area And Removing Containers
6-3-8: Industrial Units
6-3-9: Scavengers To Be Contracted
6-3-10: Burning
6-3-11: Exemptions And Variance From Provisions
6-3-12: Penalty
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
GARBAGE: All organic household kitchen wastes, such as rejected or unused food
and food residues and paper necessary for wrapping.
REFUSE, BURNABLE: Combustible rubbish such as papers, boxes, brush and leaves
and any other rubbish or waste resulting from the operation of a domestic or
business establishment, such as tree trimmings, debris from building
construction, repair or remodeling, discarded equipment and similar waste.
REFUSE, NONBURNABLE: Inorganic incombustible household waste, such as tin cans,
ashes, metalware, bottles, broken glass, crockery, stoneware and similar refuse
resulting from the regular operation of a household, not classified as garbage.
(Ord., 8-20-1973)
6-3-2: VILLAGE TO PROVIDE SERVICE:
Subject to the provisions of this chapter, and except as otherwise provided by
ordinance, the village shall provide for the disposal of household "garbage"
and rubbish, as herein defined, by contract with a scavenger of disposal
service. (Ord., 8-20-1973; amd. 1983 Code)
6-3-3: COLLECTION DAYS:
Garbage and rubbish shall be collected according to the schedule negotiated
between the village and the scavenger contracted with by the village with no
change in the day of collection occurring except upon ten (10) days' written
notification by the scavenger to the village and to each owner, occupant or
lessee receiving garbage disposal service under this chapter and any contract
in implementation thereof. (Ord., 8-7-1989)
6-3-4: SERVICE CHARGE:
The village shall charge to owners, occupants or lessees, for the collection
and disposal of household "garbage" and rubbish as herein defined, such amount
(s) as shall be charged the village for such service by such scavenger service
with which the village contracts, from time to time. Charges by the village for
the collection and disposal of household garbage and rubbish may be increased
by the village after ten (10) days' notice to each owner, occupant or lessee
receiving garbage and rubbish collection and disposal. Every owner, occupant or
lessee of a single, detached dwelling shall pay to the village on a monthly
basis, the monthly charge for such garbage and rubbish collection and disposal
service with the billing for said service to be made with the monthly water
bills. Each two-family dwelling or multiple-family row house or apartment house
dwelling shall, for the purpose of this chapter, be deemed to be multiple
single, detached dwellings. (Ord. 05-07, 4-18-2005)
6-3-5: REQUIREMENT TO USE CONTAINERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of or place any garbage or
rubbish in any street, alley or sidewalk or any other public place within the
village, nor shall any person dispose of or place any garbage or rubbish on
private property whether owned by such person or not, within the limits of the
village, unless the same shall be enclosed in a suitable container so that it
cannot be blown about by ordinary winds. (Ord., 8-20-1973)
6-3-6: CONSTRUCTION OF CONTAINERS:
The owner, occupant or lessee of any premises in the village upon which shall
accumulate any garbage, ashes or rubbish, shall provide or cause to be provided
and shall maintain clean and in good repair, adequate separate receptacles of
the following material, construction and capacity:
   A.   Garbage shall be drained and wrapped and stored in durable rust
resisting, nonabsorbent, watertight and easily washable metal or plastic
containers, which shall have close fitting covers and suitable handles for
carrying, and shall be not more than thirty (30) gallons or less than ten (10)
gallons in capacity. (Ord., 8-20-1973)
   B.   Nonburnable rubbish shall be stored in metal receptacles or plastic
containers of not more than thirty (30) gallons or less than twenty (20)
gallons in capacity, and shall be provided with suitable handles for carrying.
(Ord., 8-20-1973; amd. Ord., 11-3-2003)
   C.   (Rep. by Ord., 11-3-2003)
   D.   Receptacles for burnable refuse will be as described in section
6-3-10 of this chapter. (Ord., 8-20-1973)
6-3-7: PLACING CONTAINERS AT CURBSIDE PICK UP AREA AND REMOVING CONTAINERS:
It shall be the duty of each person to comply with all provisions of this
chapter and on each day of collection to place the containers at the normal
pick up area by six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and must be removed from the pickup
areas that are adjacent to the village streets within twenty-four (24) hours of
the pickup. (Ord. 08-6, 6-16-2008; amd. Ord. 23-19, 1-2-2024)
6-3-8: INDUSTRIAL UNITS:
The foregoing provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any industrial,
commercial or business unit in the village. It shall be the duty of any
industrial, commercial or business unit in the village, at its own cost, to
arrange with a properly licensed scavenger for the disposal of its "garbage"
and rubbish as herein defined, as well as of its market, industrial, commercial
and business unit wastes. Such industrial, commercial and business unit,
including any person engaged in running an industrial enterprise of any kind,
shall keep its premises free and clear of any accumulation of "garbage" or
rubbish as herein defined or of market or industrial waste of any kind.
Such industrial, commercial and business garbage and rubbish, including market
and industrial, commercial and business waste, shall be collected each week or
as often as is necessary to prevent any accumulation of such garbage, rubbish
and waste which would cause any nuisance or health hazard or the breeding of
insects. In no event shall such collection be made less frequently than once in
each week. Industrial, commercial or business garbage, rubbish and waste shall
be stored as provided in section
6-3-5 of this chapter, except bulky rubbish such as large wooden and cardboard
boxes. (Ord., 8-20-1973; amd. 1983 Code)
6-3-9: SCAVENGERS TO BE CONTRACTED:
No person shall engage in the business of collecting or disposing unless
contracted with the village as a scavenger. (Ord., 8-20-1973; amd. 1983 Code)
6-3-10: BURNING:
   A.   For the purposes of this section, the term defined in this subsection
has the meaning given it. "Leaves" shall mean leaves, also including yard waste
and twigs no greater than one inch (1") in diameter.
   B.   Only leaves are permitted to be burned outdoors in the village. The
burning of any other materials is prohibited. Leaves may be burned only on open
ground between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and seven o'clock (7:
00) P.M. All open leaf fires shall be extinguished and smoldering shall be
discontinued by seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. During the months of May through
September, leaf burning is only allowed on Fridays between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. In the months of October
through April, leaf burning is allowed on any day of the week, between the
hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. No leaves
shall be burned on Sundays or federal or state holidays. The village of
Herscher shall be exempt from the restrictions set forth in this section.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to light or maintain any fire anywhere in the
village so close to any building, structure, utility pole, wires of utility
companies, fences, automobiles or trucks so as to create a fire hazard.
   D.   The conditions of the burning leaves shall be:
      1.   All leaf fires are to be supervised at all times by the occupant,
owner or tenant or by such person designated by them.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn leaves upon any
bituminous or asphalt pavement, public sidewalk or on any street or alley which
is prohibited by village ordinance.
   E.   It is not the intent of this section to prohibit the use of outdoor
fireplaces, barbecue pits or burners for the preparation of food; provided such
use creates no fire hazard.
   F.   The police chief shall prohibit any or all bonfires and outdoor rubbish
fires when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires
hazardous.
   G.   All owners, builders, contractors, etc., constructing or remodeling
structures within the village must provide a dumpster for the removal of
construction materials. No burning of construction materials and/or remodeling
materials are permitted. (Ord. 11-16, 8-15-2011)
6-3-11: EXEMPTIONS AND VARIANCE FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   The following are exempt from the application of these provisions:
      1.   All residences and business within the village limits which are in
excess of one thousand feet (1,000') from the nearest residence.
      2.   Businesses with a properly installed and operating commercial
incinerator which may be operated between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. each day.
   B.   Any person aggrieved by this chapter may apply to the police chief for
relief and after investigation of facts of the case, the police chief may grant
a variance where a literal enforcement of this chapter would result in
exceptional difficulty or unusual hardship so that substantial justice will be
done and public safety and welfare secured. (Ord., 8-7-1989)
6-3-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord., 8-7-1989)
CHAPTER 4
WEEDS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Nuisance Declared
6-4-2: Height
6-4-3: Removal; Notice
6-4-4: Abatement
6-4-5: Lien
6-4-6: Foreclosure Of Lien
6-4-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other weeds
of a like kind, found growing in any lot or tract of land in the village are
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit any such
weeds to grow or remain in any such place. (Ord., 5-17-1976)
6-4-2: HEIGHT:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants, other
than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants to grow to a height
exceeding eight inches (8") anywhere in the village. Any such plants, grass or
weeds exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance. (Ord., 5-17-
1976)
6-4-3: REMOVAL; NOTICE:
It shall be the duty of the code enforcement officer to serve or cause to be
served a notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which plants,
grass or weeds are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this
chapter and to demand the abatement of the nuisance within five (5) days. (Ord.
11-21, 8-15-2011)
6-4-4: ABATEMENT:
If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five (5) days, the
code enforcement officer may proceed to abate such nuisance, and such expense
shall be charged and paid by such owner or occupant. (Ord. 11-14, 8-15-2011)
6-4-5: LIEN:
Charges for such plant, grass or weed removal shall be a lien upon the
premises. Whenever a bill for such charges remains unpaid for sixty (60) days
after it has been rendered, the village clerk may file with the recorder of
deeds of the county a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain a
legal description of the premises, the expenses and costs incurred and the date
the plants, grass or weeds were cut, and a notice that the village claims a
lien for this amount. Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of
the premises if his address is known.
Failure of the village clerk to record such lien claim or to mail such notice,
or the failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not affect the right
to foreclose the lien for such charges as provided in section
6-4-6 of this chapter. (Ord., 5-17-1976)
6-4-6: FORECLOSURE OF LIEN:
Property subject to a lien for unpaid plant, grass or weed cutting charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same and the proceeds of such sale shall be
applied to pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in equity in the name
of the village.
The village attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings, in the name of the village, in any court having jurisdiction over
such matter, against any property for which such bill has remained unpaid one
hundred eighty (180) days after it has been rendered. (Ord., 5-17-1976)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Abandoned, Inoperable Vehicles   1
General Traffic Provisions   2
Parking Regulations   3
Speed Regulatory Signs   4
Signs Regulating the Movement of Vehicles   5
CHAPTER 1
ABANDONED, INOPERABLE VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Definitions
7-1-2: Leaving Vehicle Prohibited
7-1-3: Inoperable Vehicles Declared Nuisance; Disposition
7-1-4: Impounding Vehicles
7-1-5: Disposition Of Unclaimed Vehicles
7-1-6: Unlicensed/Unregistered Vehicle
7-1-7: Penalty
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is left at any place for such time and
under such circumstances as to cause the vehicle reasonably to appear to have
been abandoned.
INOPERABLE VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least
three (3) days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or
otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its
own power, or cannot reasonably be made to operate under its own power, or
cannot be legally operated upon any street for any reason including, but not
limited to, the failure to have displayed a current valid registration and/or
proof of insurance. "Motor vehicle" as used herein shall be defined in the
motor vehicle code of the Illinois Compiled Statutes as from time to time
amended. Exceptions to the foregoing shall be any motor vehicle or part thereof
which is completely enclosed within a building in a lawful manner where it is
not visible from the street or other public or private property, or any vehicle
or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful manner on private
property in connection with a legally operating commercial business of the
property owner, lessor or occupier.
PROPERTY: Any real property within the village which is not a street or
highway.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
UNLICENSED/UNREGISTERED VEHICLE AND/OR TRAILER: A vehicle not bearing and/or
displaying a current and valid Illinois registration sticker or stickers and
plate or plates, or an Illinois temporary registration permit, or a drive-away
or in- transit permit, issued therefor by the secretary of state; or a vehicle
not bearing and/or displaying a current and valid registration sticker or
stickers and plate or plates, or a temporary registration permit, or a drive-
away or in-transit permit, issued therefor by another state vehicle licensing
authority.
VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to travel
along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and transport
persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without limitation,
automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon. (1983 Code;
amd. Ord., 8-5-1996; Ord. 13-5, 6-17-2013)
7-1-2: LEAVING VEHICLE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Abandoning Vehicles: No person shall abandon any vehicle within the
village, and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the village
for such time and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably
to appear to have been abandoned.
   B.   Leaving Inoperable Vehicle On Street Prohibited: No person shall leave
any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked or junked vehicle on any street
or highway in the village. (1983 Code)
7-1-3: INOPERABLE VEHICLES DECLARED NUISANCE; DISPOSITION:
"Inoperable motor vehicles", as defined in this chapter, whether on public or
private property, are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and all persons shall
dispose of any such inoperable motor vehicles under their control upon receipt
of written notice received from the village authorities or from the chief of
police or any member of the police department designated by said chief of
police, commanding the disposition of such inoperable motor vehicles. (1983
Code)
7-1-4: IMPOUNDING VEHICLES:
The chief of police, or any member of the police department designated by the
chief of police, is hereby authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle
left at any place within the village which reasonably appears to be in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, or which reasonably appears to be
lost, stolen or unclaimed, or which is an "inoperable vehicle" as defined in
this chapter. (1983 Code)
7-1-5: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
The procedure to be followed by the police department in regard to abandoned,
lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicles shall be in accordance with 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4-201 et seq. (1983 Code)
7-1-6: UNLICENSED/UNREGISTERED VEHICLE:
No unlicensed/unregistered vehicle shall be in plain view on any public or
private property in the village of Herscher. (Ord. 13-5, 6-17-2013)
7-1-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of sections
7-1-2 through
7-1-5 of this chapter shall be punished by the imposition of a fine of not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each violation. (Ord. 13-5, 6-17-2013)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Conformity To Rules Required
7-2-2: Vehicle Defined
7-2-3: U-Turns Restricted
7-2-4: Traction Engines
7-2-5: No Passing Zones
7-2-6: Golf Carts On Roadways
7-2-1: CONFORMITY TO RULES REQUIRED:
The owner, operator, driver or person in charge of any vehicle driven or
propelled upon the streets, alleys or public places of the Village shall
conform to and observe the provisions herein. (Ord., 6-28-1918)
7-2-2: VEHICLE DEFINED:
The following definition shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to travel
along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and transport
persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without limitation,
automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon. (Ord., 3-3-
1975)
7-2-3: U-TURNS RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to make a U-turn at, or
within one hundred fifty feet (150') of, the intersection of Main Street with
Myrtle Avenue and Kankakee Avenue in the Village, or at any other place where
such turns are prohibited by ordinance. (Ord., 3-3-1975)
7-2-4: TRACTION ENGINES:
For all traction engines crossing street and alley cement crossings, such
crossings must be planked for protection. (Ord., 7-30-1912)
7-2-5: NO PASSING ZONES:
No passing zones as marked on existing roadways as required by State Statute
shall exist in the following streets:
North Main Street (southbound traffic) from Clyde Street to the railroad
crossing.
South Main Street (northbound traffic) from the middle of the 100 block of
South Main Street to the railroad crossing.
South Main Street (southbound traffic) from Jeanette Street through the curve
existing on South Main Street and continuing onto South Street until completion
of said curve.
South Street (westbound traffic) from the beginning of the curve on South
Street through completion of the curve onto South Main Street. (Ord., 11-18-
1991)
7-2-6: GOLF CARTS ON ROADWAYS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
 
                                  Defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
                                  1-123.9 as "a vehicle specifically designed
                                  and intended for the purposes of transporting
GOLF CART:                        one (1) or more persons and their golf clubs
                                  or maintenance equipment while engaged in the
                                  playing of golf, supervising the play of
                                  golf, or maintaining the condition of the
                                  grounds on a public or private golf course".
                                  Means the following motor vehicles not
NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE:              specifically designed to be used on a public
                                  highway:
                                 1. A golf cart.
                                  2. A recreational off-highway vehicle.
                                  Defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
                                  1-168.8 as "any motorized off-highway device
                                  designed to travel primarily off-highway,
                                  sixty-four (64) inches or less in width,
RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE: having a manufacturer's dry weight of two
                                  thousand (2,000) pounds or less, traveling on
                                  four (4) or more non-highway tires, designed
                                  with a non-straddle seat and a steering wheel
                                  for steering control, except equipment such
                                  as lawnmowers".
 
   B.   Any terms not otherwise defined in this section shall have the meaning
as set forth in the Illinois Vehicle Code 1.
   C.   Subject to the terms hereof, it shall be lawful for any person who is a
licensed driver to drive or operate a non-highway vehicle on all roadways
within the corporate limits of the Village of Herscher, unless such roadways
are under the jurisdiction of another unit of government which has not adopted
legislation allowing the operation of such non-highway vehicles.
   D.   Mandatory Equipment: No non-highway vehicle may be operated on any
roadway in the Village of Herscher, unless at a minimum, it has the following:
brakes, a steering apparatus, tires, a rearview mirror, red reflectors in the
front and rear, a slow moving emblem (as required of other vehicles in section
12-709 of the Illinois vehicle code) on the rear of the non-highway vehicle, a
headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of five hundred feet
(500') to the front, a tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least
one hundred feet (100') to the rear, brake lights and turn signals. All non-
highway vehicles shall have their headlights and tail lamps illuminated when
driven or operated upon a roadway in the Village of Herscher as required by
section 12-201 of the Illinois vehicle code.
   E.   Capacity Limitations: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or
operate a non-highway vehicle upon any roadway within the Village of Herscher
while transporting or carrying more occupants than the non-highway vehicle is
designed to transport or carry as determined by the number of permanent
individual seats provided in the non-highway vehicle.
   F.   The operation of non-highway vehicles on streets or roadways in the
Village of Herscher, including operation of non-highway vehicles after sunset
and before sunrise, shall be in compliance with the provisions of the Illinois
Rules of the Road and the Illinois Vehicle Code. Non-highway vehicles operated
on streets or roadways in the Village of Herscher at any time between one-half
(1/2) hour before sunset and one-half (1/2) hour after sunrise must be equipped
with head lamps and tail lamps, and the head lamps and tail lamps must be
lighted.
   G.   The Village shall require all non-highway vehicles operated within the
Village to be registered with the Village, display a Village permit decal and a
registration number on both sides of the non-highway vehicle and one on the
rear using three inch (3") reflective numbers. The application form will be
maintained at the Village Hall and a copy forwarded to the Herscher Police
Department. The yearly permit fee will be twenty dollars ($20.00) per cart.
Decals and numbers will be affixed by the Village Clerk or Village police
officer at the Village Hall or other predetermined location (i.e., residence,
repair shop, etc.).
   H.   The Village of Herscher shall maintain the right to suspend or revoke
the permit of any non-highway vehicle based on unsafe operation or three (3)
complaints during a six (6) month time period. All complaints will be brought
before the Village Board by the Police Chief. The Village Board after reviewing
the facts may suspend or revoke the permit. Suspensions will be in thirty (30)
day increments.
   I.   The Village shall require all registered non-highway vehicles to be
insured and proof of insurance (recreational vehicle insurance) to be carried
at all times during operation. A copy of the insurance will be provided to the
Village of Herscher at the time of registration.
   J.   No non-highway vehicle in the Village of Herscher shall be operated in
excess of twenty (20) miles per hour.
   K.   Golf carts operated within the Village of Herscher may be powered
electrically, or by gas engines which do not exceed five hundred cubic
centimeters (500 cc), and recreational off-highway vehicles operated within the
Village of Herscher with engines which do not exceed twelve hundred cubic
centimeters (1200 cc).
   L.   All provisions set forth in the Illinois Vehicle Code be and hereby are
adopted by reference and made a part of this section.
   M.   The provisions contained herein shall be in accordance with the terms
and provisions of the Illinois Rules of the Road and the Illinois Vehicle Code,
as may be amended from time to time.
   N.   Any person operating a "non-highway vehicle" in the Village of Herscher
in violation of this section shall be subject to fines and penalties prescribed
under the Illinois Vehicle Code or Village ordinance. Fines will be assessed as
follows:
      1.   First offense/violation: Twenty five dollars ($25.00),
      2.   Second violation: Fifty dollars ($50.00), and
      3.   Third violation: Seventy five dollars ($75.00) with review by
Village Board for possible suspension of permit. (Ord. 19-3, 6-17-2019)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Parking
7-3-2: Parallel Parking Provided
7-3-3: Limited Parking In Residential Use Areas
7-3-4: Handicap Parking
7-3-5: No Parking
7-3-6: Recreational Vehicle And Utility Trailer Storage
7-3-7: Semitractors Or Trailers
7-3-1: PARKING:
All vehicles may be parked along the streets by facing the curb at an angle of
forty five degrees (45o); the right side of the vehicle to be nearest the curb,
unless the manner of parking is otherwise designated. (Ord., 6-28-1918; amd.
1983 Code)
7-3-2: PARALLEL PARKING PROVIDED:
Fourth Street between Main Street and Maple Street in the village shall
hereinafter have parallel parking on the north and south sides of said street,
and it is in the best interest for vehicular transportation and in the best
interest of the safety of individuals traveling to and from the school and
churches in the neighborhood and shall be illegal and unlawful for vehicles to
be parked other than set forth herein. (Ord., 8-20-1973)
7-3-3: LIMITED PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL USE AREAS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle, trailer or other contrivance,
whether or not registered and licensed for operation on streets, roads and
highways, upon any street, road, highway or alley right of way in the village
adjacent to a residential use, or across from a residential use unless the
property across from the residential use is zoned and used for commercial or
industrial use and the vehicle or trailer so parked is used in connection with
the commercial or industrial use, other than the following enumerated vehicles
as to which parking shall be permitted unless otherwise posted, and if posted
then such parking shall be subject to any limitations or restrictions provided:
      1.   Automobiles, vans, minivans and sport utility vehicles.
      2.   Pickup trucks, trucks and service vehicles having a gross vehicle
weight rating as defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-124.5 of eight
thousand (8,000) pounds or less.
      3.   Motorcycles and motor driven cycles.
      4.   Low speed vehicles as defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-1426.2, and properly equipped neighborhood golf carts licensed by the
village pursuant to this title.
      5.   Recreational vehicles or camper trailers for a period of time not
exceeding seventy two (72) hours for the purpose of servicing, cleaning,
loading and unloading.
      6.   Construction trailers, construction equipment or dumpsters for use
in connection with a construction project, provided that the construction
project must be authorized pursuant to a building permit issued by the village,
that there is no reasonable alternative for parking same in a location other
than the village right of way, that the village building and zoning official
issues a temporary parking permit therefor for a period determined by the
official to be reasonable to complete the work and the need therefor at the
site and setting forth any other conditions such as required signage or
barricades, and the trailer, equipment or dumpster must be parked adjacent to
the property for which the building permit is issued.
      7.   Delivery trucks, service vehicles and trailers for such time as
necessary for delivery, loading and unloading or performing services on an
adjacent premises, but in no event in excess of eight (8) continuous hours.
   B.   The village board may, upon application by any person, approve a
variance to the parking restrictions contained in this section in accordance
with the following:
      1.   Prior to the village board considering any variance application,
owners of real estate on either side of the street in the same block as the
parking is requested shall be given notice of the application and the date the
village board will consider the application, said notice to be given by the
village at least fourteen (14) days prior to the village board meeting at which
the application will be considered by first class mail addressed to the owners
of the real estate entitled to notice based upon the latest available ownership
information shown on the internet website for the Kankakee County supervisor of
assessments.
      2.   In determining whether or not to grant the variance application, the
village board will consider all information considered relevant, including, but
not limited to, the stated reason of the applicant preventing the applicant
from complying with this section, alternatives available to the applicant
including the convenience and cost thereof, the frequency and duration of the
variance requested and the consequences of allowing the variance, including,
but not limited to, impairment of traffic flow, traffic safety issues, the
aesthetic impact on the neighborhood and the possible impact on property
values.
      3.   The village board may at its discretion approve or deny the variance
in whole or in part, may impose conditions upon any variance allowed including,
but not limited to, a termination date, and may in the future terminate the
variance at any time in its discretion by an affirmative vote of a majority of
the members present at any open public meeting at which a quorum is present.
   C.   This section shall not be construed or interpreted as repealing or
modifying any other provisions of this chapter regulating parking, and the
provisions of this section shall be in addition to any other applicable
ordinance provisions and posted parking restrictions.
   D.   Any person parking any vehicle, trailer or other contrivance in
violation of this section, or owning any vehicle, trailer or other contrivance
parked in violation of this section, shall be subject to punishment as provided
in subsection F of this section for each and every offense, with each violation
occurring on a separate calendar day constituting a separate offense.
   E.   In addition to all other penalties for violations of this section, the
village may cause any vehicle, trailer or other contrivance parked in violation
of this section to be towed or otherwise removed, in which case the cost for
such towing or removal shall be paid by the owner or possessor thereof before
they will be permitted to take possession of said vehicle, trailer or other
contrivance, as applicable.
   F.   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined:
      1.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first offense.
      2.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for a second offense.
      3.   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 14-14, 8-18-2014)
7-3-4: HANDICAP PARKING:
The following locations shall be designated as handicap parking spaces within
the village:
   First space located north of the school crosswalk on the west side of North
Main Street near the intersection of North Main Street and East Fourth Street.
   First space located east of South Main Street on the south side of East
Myrtle Street.
   First space located on the east side of South Main Street on the north side
of East Myrtle Street. (Ord., 11-18-1991)
   The northwest corner of Myrtle Street and Main Street. (Ord. 98-5, 8-3-1998)
   First spaces located east and west of the handicap accessible sidewalk area
situated at the Herscher Village Hall, 272 East Second Street, on the south
side of East Second Street.
   First space east of the northeast door of the Legion Community Center on the
south side of West Kankakee Street.
   First space north of the southwest corner of South Main Street and West
Myrtle Street on South Main Street.
   The two (2) spaces on the south side of Village Park on the north side of
Chicago Avenue between North Park Road and North Maple Street.
   First space west of the alley on the north side of West Myrtle Street
between South Oak Street and South Main Street.
   First space north of the southeast corner of South Main Street and East
Myrtle Street on the east side of South Main Street.
   The first spaces east and west of the drive at Trinity Lutheran Church on
the north side of East Third Street between North Park Road and North Maple
Street. (Ord. 13-11, 11-18-2013)
   The first parking space north of the handicapped sidewalk ramp opening on
the east side of the road located adjacent to the pavilion on North Maple,
Herscher, Illinois. (Ord. 15-4, 6-15-2015)
7-3-5: NO PARKING:
   A.   General Restrictions: No parking shall be allowed in the areas and at
the times as follows:
      West side of North Main Street beginning at intersection of North Main
Street with State Route 115 and proceeding south to the north right of way line
of the one-way exit located on the Herscher community unit school district
property, from eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. through two o'clock (2:00) P.M. on
school days.
      East side of North Main Street beginning at the intersection of North
Main Street with State Route 115 to the intersection of North Main Street with
Fourth Street, from eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. through two o'clock (2:00) P.M.
      The thirty seven feet (37') extending north of East Fourth Street on the
east side of North Main Street during school hours.
      The fifty one feet (51') extending south of East Fourth Street on the
east side of North Main Street during school hours.
      North side of West Kankakee Street from South Main Street to South Oak
Street at all times.
      West side of the alley located next to the village water tower and
treatment plant at all times.
      The twenty three feet (23') extending west of North Mulberry on the south
side of Tobey Drive at all times.
      All areas designated by yellow curbing as no parking areas throughout the
village. (Ord., 11-18-1991)
      From Tobey Drive to the alley on the west side of Mulberry Street at all
times. (Ord., 8-17-1996)
      The north side of Kankakee Street from South Oak Street, east to the
entrance of Herscher Grain Corporation at all times. (Ord. 97-3, 11-3-1997)
      Second Street from Oak Street, west one hundred seventy feet (170').
(Ord. 08-2, 4-21-2008)
   B.   Residential Parking Only:
      Third Street north on Main to Fourth Street on the east side of the
street.
      South edge of 610 North Main Street north to the Amoco station, on the
east side of Main Street.
      West side of Main Street from Route 115 to the north exit road at the
high school.
   C.   Two Hour Parking:
      Fourth Street north on Main to the south edge of 610 North Main, on the
east side of the street between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:
00) P.M. (Ord. 02-2, 1-7-2002)
   D.   Disasters; Special Functions:
      1.   The chief of police shall have the authority to designate village
streets as designated "no parking zones" during times of local disaster or
during special functions, such as parades. During times of local disaster, the
chief of police or his designee shall have the authority to tow any vehicles
parked in any area that he may designate as no parking to an alternate location
at the vehicle owner's expense. This may only be done during times of local
disaster and only used to facilitate emergency vehicle traffic.
      2.   The chief of police shall also have the authority to designate no
parking areas on village streets during times of special functions. These
special functions include, but are not limited to, Corn Bowl and the Labor Day
homecoming and parade. These "no parking" zones must be posted a minimum of
twelve (12) hours before the event with the times that "no parking" is in
effect stated on the posting. Also, the village shall post the designated "no
parking" zones at the village hall a minimum of five (5) days prior to the
event and list in a media outlet prior to the event. Vehicles parked in
designated no parking zones during the designated times may be towed, at the
vehicle owner's expense, to an alternate location. The village may also cite
the registered owner for a fine of no less than twenty five dollars ($25.00)
and no more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 02-3, 2-4-2002)
7-3-6: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE AND UTILITY TRAILER STORAGE:
   A.   No village residence shall be allowed to have more than two (2)
recreational vehicles or utility type trailers stored or parked on residential
property. Definition of "recreational vehicle or utility trailer" consists of
motor houses, campers, boats, boat trailers, snowmobiles, snowmobile trailers,
motorcycle trailers, utility trailers, etc. Boats, snowmobiles, motorcycles,
etc., which are stored on or in trailers will be considered one unit. Any of
the above mentioned vehicles which are stored inside, i.e., garages or garden
sheds will not be considered in violation of this code. (Ord. 00-4, 3-20-2000)
7-3-7: SEMITRACTORS OR TRAILERS:
No semitractors and/or trailers may be parked within the village of Herscher
unless said vehicle is loading or unloading at a village of Herscher business.
Said vehicles may be parked on private property that is properly zoned
commercial or industrial. No on street parking of these vehicles is allowed
without a special use permit issued by the police chief.
Upon receipt of special use permit from police chief, trucks or semitractors of
one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity or larger may be parked on paved
residential property for a period of no longer than forty eight (48)
consecutive hours.
Trucks or semitractors deemed unsightly, dirty, leaking fluids, omitting odor,
etc., will be denied special use permit and not allowed to park on residential
property for any amount of time.
Trailers must be parked or stored on property zoned commercial or industrial as
stated previously. (Ord. 00-8, 12-4-2000)
Semitractor/trailer parking is prohibited from Route 115 southward to the north
exit of the high school on both the east and west side of Main Street. (Ord.
02-5, 2-18-2002)
CHAPTER 4
SPEED REGULATORY SIGNS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Speed Regulatory Signs
7-4-1: SPEED REGULATORY SIGNS:
The following speed zones are hereby established within the village limits of
Herscher:
   A.   South Main Street: Maximum of twenty five (25) miles per hour on South
Main Street for traffic proceeding north and south at the intersection of South
Main Street and Kankakee Street to the intersections of South Main Street and
South Street. (Ord., 11-18-1991)
   B.   School Zones: The following locations within the village of Herscher
have been established as "School Zones". The posted speed will be twenty (20)
miles per hour on school days when children are present.
      Main Street (north and south bound traffic) from Third Street to State
Route 115.
      North Elm Street from Third Street to State Route 115 (north and south
bound traffic).
      Third Street from North Main Street to North Elm Street (both east and
west bound traffic). (Ord. 98-3, 5-18-1998)
   C.   Other Streets And Alleys: On all other streets and alleys of the
village not otherwise posted the maximum speed limit on village streets is
thirty (30) miles per hour and in village alleys fifteen (15) miles per hour.
(Ord., 11-18-1991)
CHAPTER 5
SIGNS REGULATING THE MOVEMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Schedule Of Signs Regulating The Movement Of Vehicles
7-5-1: SCHEDULE OF SIGNS REGULATING THE MOVEMENT OF VEHICLES:
Stop and yield signs regulating vehicles traveling on the streets and alleys of
the village shall be erected at the following locations:
Intersecting Streets Direction Of Travel Sign Corner/Sign
Intersecting Streets  Direction Of Travel Sign  Corner/Sign
Alley at the water tower:
East/West Alley       Westbound           Yield South/east
North/South Alley     Northbound          Stop  South/east
Bossert at:
Pilot Drive           Northbound          Yield South/east
East Fourth Street    Southbound          Yield North/west
Chicago Street at:
North Elm Street      Eastbound           Yield South/west
North Elm Street      Westbound           Yield North/east
North Main Street     Eastbound           Stop  South/west
North Main Street     Westbound           Stop  North/east
North Maple Street    Eastbound           Stop  South/west
North Maple Street    Westbound           Stop  North/east
North Oak Street      Eastbound           Yield South/west
North Oak Street      Westbound           Yield North/east
North Park Road       Eastbound           Stop  South/west
North Park Road       Westbound           Stop  North/east
Clyde Street at:
North Main Street     Eastbound           Stop  South/west
North Oak Street      Westbound           Yield North/east
Jeanette Street at:
South Main Street     Westbound           Stop  North/east
South Park Road       Eastbound           Stop  South/west
Kankakee Street at:
South Elm Street      Eastbound           Yield South/west
South Elm Street      Westbound           Yield North/east
South Main Street     Eastbound           Stop  South/west
South Main Street     Westbound           Stop  North/east
South Oak Street      Eastbound           Stop  South/west
South Oak Street      Westbound           Stop  North/east
South Park Road       Eastbound           Stop  South/west
South Park Road       Westbound           Stop  North/east
Kay Street at:
South Main Street     Westbound           Stop  North/east
South Park Road       Eastbound           Stop  South/west
Leiser Street at:
Pilot Drive           Northbound          Yield South/east
East Second Street    Southbound          Yield North/west
Maple Street at:
Chicago               Southbound          Stop  North/west
East Kankakee         Northbound          Yield South/east
East Myrtle           Northbound          Yield South/east
East Myrtle           Southbound          Yield North/west
East Walnut           Southbound          Yield North/west
East Second Street    Northbound          Stop  South/east
East Second Street    Southbound          Stop  North/west
East Third Street     Northbound          Stop  South/east
East Third Street     Southbound          Stop  North/west
Mulberry Street at:
Tobey Drive           Southbound          Stop  North/west
Myrtle Street at:
South Elm Street      Eastbound           Stop  South/west
South Elm Street      Northbound          Stop  South/east
South Elm Street      Southbound          Stop  North/west
South Elm Street      Westbound           Stop  North/east
South Main Street     Eastbound           Stop  South/west
South Main Street     Westbound           Stop  North/east
South Park Road       Eastbound           Stop  South/west
South Park Road       Westbound           Stop  North/east
North Elm Street at:
Third Street          Eastbound           Stop  South/west
Third Street          Northbound          Stop  South/east
Third Street          Southbound          Stop  North/west
Third Street          Westbound           Stop  North/east
Oak Street at:
West Myrtle Street    Northbound          Yield South/east
West Myrtle Street    Southbound          Yield North/west
West Walnut Street    Southbound          Yield North/west
West Third Street     Northbound          Stop  South/east
                                              
Pilot Drive at:
North Mulberry        Eastbound           Stop  South/west
North Mulberry        Westbound           Stop  North/east
Vernon                Westbound           Yield North/east
South Main Street at:
South Street          Northbound          Stop  (In median)
South Street          Southbound          Yield North/west
South Street at:
South Main Street     Eastbound           Stop  South/west
South Park Road       Eastbound           Stop  South/west
South Park Road       Westbound           Stop  North/east
Spruce Street at:
Leiser Street         Westbound           Yield North/east
Willow                Eastbound           Yield South/west
Willow                Westbound           Yield North/east
Tobey Drive at:
North Park Road       Westbound           Stop  North/east
Vernon Street at:
Pilot Drive           Westbound           Stop  North/east
East Second Street    Southbound          Stop  North/west
East Fourth Street    Northbound          Stop  South/east
East Fourth Street    Southbound          Stop  North/west
Walnut Court at:
Walnut Street         Southbound          Stop  North/east
Walnut Street at:
South Elm Street      Eastbound           Yield South/west
South Elm Street      Westbound           Yield North/east
South Main Street     Eastbound           Stop  South/west
South Main Street     Westbound           Stop  North/east
South Park Road       Eastbound           Stop  South/west
South Park Road       Westbound           Stop  North/east
Willow Street at:
Pilot Drive           Northbound          Yield South/east
Second Street         Southbound          Yield North/west
Second Street at:
North Elm Street      Eastbound           Yield South/west
North Elm Street      Westbound           Yield North/east
North Main Street     Eastbound           Stop  South/west
North Main Street     Westbound           Stop  North/east
North Maple Street    Eastbound           Stop  South/west
North Maple Street    Westbound           Stop  North/east
North Mulberry Street Eastbound           Stop  South/west
North Mulberry Street Westbound           Stop  North/east
North Oak Street      Eastbound           Yield South/west
North Oak Street      Westbound           Yield North/east
North Park Road       Eastbound           Stop  South/west
North Park Road       Westbound           Stop  North/east
Third Street at:
Maple Street          Eastbound           Stop  South/west
Maple Street          Westbound           Stop  North/east
North Elm Street      Eastbound           Yield South/west
North Elm Street      Westbound           Yield North/east
North Main Street     Eastbound           Stop  South/west
North Main Street     Westbound           Stop  North/east
North Mulberry        Eastbound           Yield South/west
North Park Road       Eastbound           Stop  South/west
Vernon                Westbound           Yield North/east
East Fourth Street at:
Maple Street          Westbound           Yield North/east
North Main Street     Westbound           Stop  North/east
North Maple Street    Eastbound           Yield South/west
North Mulberry        Eastbound           Yield South/west
Park Road             Eastbound           Stop  South/west
Vernon                Westbound           Stop  North/east
East Fifth Street at:
North Maple Street    Westbound           Yield North/east
North Park Road       Eastbound           Stop  South/west
North Park Road       Westbound           Stop  North/east
Vernon                Eastbound           Yield South/west
East Sixth Street at:
North Maple Street    Westbound           Yield North/east
North Park Road       Eastbound           Stop  South/west
Route 115 at:
North Elm Street      Northbound          Stop  South/east
North Main Street     Northbound          Stop  South/east
North Maple Street    Northbound          Stop  South/east
Park Road             Northbound          Stop  South/east
Vernon                Northbound          Stop  South/east
 
 
(Ord., 11-18-1991; amd. Ord., 8-19-1996; Ord. 04-9, 11-1-2004)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Building Codes   1
International Building Code   1A
International Residential Code   1B
International Fuel Gas Code   1C
International Plumbing Code   1D
International Fire Code   1E
International Mechanical Code   1F
Property Maintenance Code   1G
Earth Home Regulations   2
Garden Shed Regulations   3
Storm Sewer Regulations   4
Multiple Dwelling Construction Regulations   5
Village Sidewalk Regulations   6
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Buildings And Building Regulations Adopted
8-1-2: Amendments To Buildings And Building Regulations Adopted
8-1-3: Variations
8-1-4: Stop Order
8-1-5: Property Boundary Location
8-1-6: Established Elevations
8-1-7: Driveway Construction Specifications
8-1-8: Expiration Of Building Permits
8-1-9: Abandoned, Dangerous, Vacant Or Unoccupied Buildings
8-1-10: Demolition
8-1-1: BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by the village the one- and two-family code of the
Council Of American Building Officials (CABO code) of 1989 together with the
accumulative supplements thereto. And in addition thereto, it is hereby adopted
by the village for the purpose of regulating all construction not otherwise
covered by said CABO code the buildings and building regulations of the
Kankakee County code 1 , adopted June 9, 1991, as promulgated by the Kankakee
County board of Kankakee County together with the accumulative supplements
thereto. The provisions of such CABO code and county code, buildings and
building regulations shall govern all matters covered therein to the extent
that the same are not in conflict with nor amended by any provision of this
code or other ordinances of the village and further provided that the
provisions of said county code section
5-1-4(C) shall govern all matters concerning plumbing, and the provisions of
the CABO code and county code shall be applicable to the extent that the same
are not provided for in said Illinois state plumbing code. Specific provisions
of this village code or other ordinances of the village shall take precedence
and shall govern all matters otherwise covered in said CABO code and county
code. (Ord., 5-18-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. Kankakee County code, ch. 5.
8-1-2: AMENDMENTS TO BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The Kankakee County buildings and building regulations herein adopted are
hereby amended as follows:
   "Building inspector" shall be inserted wherever the words "building officer"
or "county building officer" appear.
   "Village board" shall be inserted wherever the words "county board" appear.
   "Village clerk" shall be inserted wherever the words "county clerk" appear.
   Sections 5-6, 5-21, 5-27 and 5-56 through 5-61 are hereby deleted. (1983
Code)
   Section 5-22 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      Inspections: There shall be the following inspections on all new
construction:
         (1)   First: To be made after staking of building.
         (2)   Second: To be made after trenches are excavated and forms
erected.
         (3)   Third: To be made after the roof, all framing, all electrical
wiring, fireblocking and bracing are in place and all pipes, chimneys and vents
are complete.
         (4)   Fourth: To be made after plastering or drywall but prior to
trim.
         (5)   Fifth: To be made after building is completed and ready for
occupancy.
(Ord., 3-18-1991)
   (a)   The building inspector, at the time of his final inspection, will
inspect to make sure that grass seed has been planted or that sod has been
laid, before issuing a certificate of occupancy. If grass seed has not been
planted or sod has not been laid, the owner will be required to do so prior to
issuing the certificate of occupancy. If neither can be done due to the time of
the year or due to the weather, then an escrow account must be established at
the bank to provide for the leveling of the ground, and the planting of grass
seed.
   Written confirmation, from the bank in which the escrow has been
established, must be given to the building inspector before the certificate of
occupancy is issued. The building inspector will give the village clerk the
original confirmation, and will keep a copy for his file.
   The most common size lot today would be about 150 feet deep with 100 feet of
frontage. This would require an escrow in the amount of $1,500.00. Any larger
lots would require an escrow established in the amount of $2,500.00.
   Any unused escrow funds would be refunded to the original depositor upon
completion of the seeding of the grass.
(Ord. 04-7, 4-19-2004)
      (6)   Sixth: The building inspector shall require funds equal to the
value of any unfinished concrete work at a new building site to be put in an
escrow account with the village before commencement of the construction work.
The building inspector will determine the amount required to be escrowed with
the village based upon the amount of concrete required to complete the project.
         a.   The building inspector shall conduct a final inspection of the
construction work upon completion thereof.
         b.   After conducting a final inspection of the construction work:
            1.   In the event the building inspector approves the construction
work, all funds held in escrow by the village for the concrete work shall be
returned to the person who deposited such funds with the village.
            2.   In the event the building inspector does not approve the
construction work, the funds held in escrow for concrete work by the village
may be used by the village to complete the concrete work in accordance with
applicable building codes.
         c.   The building inspector shall issue an occupancy permit only upon
completion of the construction work, and final approval of the construction
work by the building inspector.
(Ord. 14-11, 7-7-2014)
      In addition to the above inspections of any construction work,
inspections may be made to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and other laws which are enforced by the building inspector.
   Section 5-23(a) is hereby amended to read as follows:
      (a) A certificate of completion, which shall be secured before a building
is permanently occupied, is to be issued by the building inspector and a member
of the building committee when an inspection following the completion of the
work shows that all construction is in compliance with this chapter and the
permit issued. This certificate shall be in addition to the certificate of
occupancy required under section
10-1-4 of the village zoning code.
   Section 5-23(b) is hereby expressly deleted.
(Ord., 3-18-1991)
   Section 5-25(a) is hereby amended to read as follows:
      As used in this section the term "nonconforming building or structure"
means a building or structure or part or appurtenance thereof which existed on
April 4, 1983 which is not in conformance with this chapter.
   (1983 Code)
   Section 5-42-(b)(1) is hereby amended to add the following additional
language:
      provided for any new structure in excess of five hundred (500) square
feet in area, the owner or authorized agent shall provide the building
inspector two complete sets of working plans in such form as said building
inspector may deem necessary.
   (Ord., 9-16-1991)
   Section 5-43 is hereby deleted and the following language inserted:
      An application fee shall be paid to the building inspector upon making
application for a building permit based upon the number of inspections required
for the improvement or construction. The number of inspections required is
estimated based upon the schedule incorporated herein by this reference.
      However, in the event the improvements or construction require more
inspections, the village shall notify the applicant and an additional fee shall
be charged.
      The building inspector shall deposit all funds collected with the village
treasurer.
   (Ord. 02-7, 6-3-2002)
   Section 5-44(a) is hereby deleted and in lieu thereof substituted the
following:
      The application for building permit and accompanying plans and plats
shall be submitted no less than ten (10) days prior to the desired date of
initiation of construction. No permits shall be valid prior to being signed by
the village building inspector and a member of the building committee of the
village board.
   (Ord., 3-18-1991)
   Section 5-45 is hereby deleted and in lieu thereof the following is
inserted:
   Special Provisions For Roads
      Before a building permit can be issued to any building that will require
an entrance upon a highway, street, road or thoroughfare that comes under the
jurisdiction of the village, township highway commissioner, or county board or
if the highway, street, road or thoroughfare is reserved for dedication to
public use in a plat of subdivision approved by the village board, the
applicant must first secure in writing a permit of entrance from the county
superintendent of highways on county highways only, from the township highway
commissioner on township highways only, and from the chairman of the streets
and alleys committee of the village board in all other instances. The permit of
entrance shall contain the following information in detail:
         (1)   If drainage structures are required, the type, diameter, length,
and headwall requirements.
         (2)   The entrance requirement within the right-of-way line as to
cross section, grade line, base material thickness, width and depth, surface
type width and thickness.
         (3)   Any other information pertinent to providing a safe and adequate
entrance with proper drainage.
   A surety bond or certified check in the amount of one hundred dollars
($100.00) shall be posted for the completion of the entrance as required in the
permit issued by the county superintendent of highways, the township highway
commissioner or the chairman of the streets and alley committee and shall be
deposited with the village building inspector at the time application for a
building permit is made.
   The permit form may be obtained from the village building inspector, the
chairman of the streets and alley committee of the village board, the county
superintendent of highways, or the township highway commissioner.
   (1983 Code)
8-1-3: VARIATIONS:
It shall be unlawful to vary from the approved plans and specifications
deposited with, and approved by the building inspector unless amended plans and
specifications showing such proposed alteration and variation are first filed
with and approved by the building inspector. If such variation involves an
increase in the total cost of the work, a statement to that effect shall be
made and the necessary additional fees shall be paid. (1983 Code)
8-1-4: STOP ORDER:
The building inspector may order work stopped whenever any construction,
alteration or repair work is being done in violation of this chapter. Such stop
order, when oral, shall be followed by a written stop order within twenty four
(24) hours. It shall be unlawful to continue with any work in violation of a
stop order until such order has been revoked by the person issuing it or by the
village president or board of trustees. (1983 Code)
8-1-5: PROPERTY BOUNDARY LOCATION:
If at any time in order to properly enforce the requirements of the building
and/or zoning codes of the village, the building inspector determines that the
location of the property lines on which any construction, alteration or
preparation work is being done need to be determined, said landowner, at his
expense, shall locate and stake said property lines at such locations specified
by the building inspector. (Ord., 3-18-1991)
8-1-6: ESTABLISHED ELEVATIONS:
In a platted subdivision wherein said plat establishes the elevation for garage
floors no construction shall be allowed which does not comply with said
specified elevation. (Ord., 5-18-1992)
8-1-7: DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Construction Materials: Any driveway constructed within the village of
Herscher shall be either: concrete, asphalt or brick pavers.
      1.   Concrete: Shall consist of 6-bag mix reinforced with a six inch by
six inch (6" x 6") number 10 wire or shall be constructed with fibrecrete and
shall be a minimum of five inches (5") in depth. A base of three inches (3") of
compacted sand or three inches (3") of compacted CA-06/10 road mix shall be
provided.
      2.   Asphalt: The base course shall not be less than six inches (6") of
compacted CA-06/10 road mix. The asphalt course shall not be less than three
inches (3") in compact thickness.
      3.   Brick Pavers: To be installed per the manufacturer's recommendations
(instructions).
   B.   Gravel Driveways: Gravel driveways are allowed only where the driveway
connects to an alley.
   C.   Building Permit Required: A building permit shall be obtained whenever
a driveway is constructed. The building inspector shall inspect the proposed
construction before the driveway is laid.
   D.   Applicability: This section shall be applicable to all driveway and/or
parking areas which connect to village streets, county highways or state
highways. (Ord. 11-5, 4-4-2011)
8-1-8: EXPIRATION OF BUILDING PERMITS:
Every building permit shall expire and become invalid one year after its
issuance. The building inspector, after consultation with the village board, is
authorized to grant up to two (2) extensions for periods not to exceed ninety
(90) days each, on such terms and conditions as he/she shall deem appropriate.
Each request for any such extension shall be submitted in writing and
justifiable cause for any such extension must be demonstrated. No building
permit shall be valid more than eighteen (18) months after its original
issuance. (Ord. 11-33, 9-6-2011)
8-1-9: ABANDONED, DANGEROUS, VACANT OR UNOCCUPIED BUILDINGS:
   A.   Definitions: Unless otherwise expressly stated or clearly indicated by
the context, the following terms shall, for the purpose of this section, have
the meanings indicated in this subsection:
   BOARDED BUILDING: A building which has had, in a manner intended to be
temporary or permanent, any or all openings, which openings are windows or
doors which were present for the purpose of light, ventilation or egress, some
material whether opaque, solid or transparent, affixed to such openings, from
the interior, or exterior of the building, for the purpose of securing or
preventing access or damage to the building or its components.
   BUILDING: Any structure occupied or intended for supporting or sheltering
any occupancy.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The code enforcement officer or his or her
designee.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING: For the purpose of this section, any building or
structure which has any of the following defects or is in any of the conditions
hereinafter described shall be deemed a "dangerous building" and any conditions
hereinafter described shall be deemed unsafe:
      1.   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by wind, flood, fire,
water or in any other manner so that the structural strength or stability
thereof is appreciably less than it was before the damage.
      2.   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property.
      3.   Whenever any portion thereof has settled to such an extent that
walls or other structural portions have materially less resistance to winds
than is required in the case of new construction.
      4.   Whenever any building or structure or any part thereof, because of
dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, or because of the
removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the purpose of
supporting such building or portion thereof, or for other reason, is likely to
partially or completely collapse; or some portion of the foundation or
underpinning is likely to fall or give away.
      5.   Whenever for any reason whatsoever, the building or structure or any
portion thereof is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used.
      6.   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind
or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become an
attractive nuisance to children who might play in or about the building
structure to their danger.
      7.   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind
or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to afford a harbor
for trespassers, or as to enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of
committing a nuisance or unlawful acts.
      8.   Whenever a building or structure is infested with rodents, insects,
pests or other vermin; and is therefore likely to cause sickness or disease.
      9.   Whenever any building shall become vacant, dilapidated or open at
door or window, leaving the interior of the building exposed to the elements or
accessible to entrance by trespassers.
   OWNER: Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having legal control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of
any such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person
if ordered to take possession of real property by any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   PERSON: Includes a corporation, a partnership, a trust or any other entity
as well as an individual.
   PREMISES: A lot, plot or parcel of land including any structure thereon.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE: Includes the following:
      1.   The physical condition, or uses of any building regarded as a public
nuisance at common law, under the Illinois Compiled Statutes or under this
code; or
      2.   Any physical condition, use or occupancy or any building or its
appurtenances considered an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not
limited to, abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations, and unsafe fences
or structures; or
      3.   Any building which has unsanitary or nonfunctioning sewerage or
plumbing facilities; or
      4.   Any building designated by the code enforcement officer as unsafe
for human habitation or use; or
      5.   Any building which is manifestly capable of being a fire hazard, or
manifestly unsafe or insecure as to endanger life, limb or property; or
      6.   Any building which is unsanitary, or which is littered with rubbish
or solid waste, or which has an uncontrolled growth of weeds; or
      7.   Any building that is dangerous, in a state of dilapidation,
deterioration or decay; faulty construction; open or vacant and the doors,
windows, or other openings are boarded up or secured, by any means other than
conventional methods used in the design of the building or permitted for new
construction of similar type; damaged by fire to the extent as not to provide
shelter, in danger of collapse or failure and dangerous to anyone on or near
the premises; or
      8.   Any building defined as a "dangerous, unsafe building" by this
section, as it may be amended.
   UNOCCUPIED BUILDING: A building or portion thereof which lacks the habitual
presence of human beings who have a legal right to be on the premises,
including buildings ordered vacated by the code enforcement officer pursuant to
authority granted to him by this code.
In determining whether a building is "unoccupied", the code enforcement officer
shall find one or more of the following factors, among others:
      1.   A building at which substantially all lawful residential or business
activity has ceased.
      2.   The percentage of the overall square footage of occupied to
unoccupied space or the overall number of occupied and unoccupied units shall
be considered.
      3.   The building is substantially devoid of contents. The condition and
value of fixtures or personal property in the building are relevant to this
determination.
      4.   The building lacks utility services, i.e., water, sewer, electric or
natural gas.
      5.   The building is the subject of a foreclosure action.
      6.   The building is not actively for sale as part of a contractual
agreement to sell the building, the building lacks "For Sale", "For Rent" or
similar signage.
      7.   The presence or recurrence of uncorrected code violations.
   VACANT BUILDING: A building or portion of a building which is:
      1.   Unoccupied and unsecured; or
      2.   Unoccupied and secured by boarding or other similar means; or
      3.   Unoccupied and a dangerous structure; or
      4.   Unoccupied and condemned by the code enforcement officer pursuant to
applicable provisions of this code; or
      5.   Unoccupied and has multiple code violations; or
      6.   Unoccupied and the building or its premises has been the site of
unlawful activity within the previous six (6) months; or
      7.   Condemned by the code enforcement officer and unlawfully occupied;
or
      8.   Unoccupied for over one hundred eighty (180) days and during which
time the code enforcement officer has issued an order to correct public
nuisance conditions and same have not been corrected in a code compliant
manner; or
      9.   Unoccupied for over two (2) years.
   But not including:
      Unoccupied buildings which are undergoing construction, renovation, or
rehabilitation and which are in compliance with all applicable ordinances,
codes, legislation, and regulations, and for which construction, renovation or
rehabilitation is proceeding diligently to completion.
   B.   Determination By Code Enforcement Officer:
      1.   Within one hundred twenty (120) days after the effective date
hereof, the code enforcement officer shall evaluate all buildings in the
village he believes to be unoccupied on the effective date of this section and
make a determination for each as to whether the building is a "vacant building"
within the meaning of this section. The code enforcement officer may determine
that a building which meets any of the criteria set forth herein is not to be
regulated under this section for a stated period, if upon consideration of
reliable, substantiated and sufficient evidence, he or she determines that
regulation of the building under this section would not serve the public
health, welfare, and safety and makes written findings in support of his
decision. The determination shall be in writing and shall state the factual
basis for the determination.
      2.   For buildings the code enforcement officer determines to be "vacant
buildings", he shall, within fourteen (14) days of making that determination,
send notice of his written determination with the factual findings to the last
taxpayer of record listed on the most recent Kankakee County tax roll. Said
notice of determination shall be sent by both certified mail, return receipt
requested and first class United States mail, with proper postage prepaid.
Failure of delivery shall not excuse a person from complying with this section.
The code enforcement officer may personally serve or cause personal service of
the notice of determination. Any person making such service shall execute an
affidavit attesting to the facts of service. The code enforcement officer shall
maintain an affidavit of such mailing for each notice of determination sent.
      3.   The notice shall require the owner to arrange a mutually convenient
time within fourteen (14) days of the notice to arrange a code compliance
inspection of the interior of the vacant building to determine the extent of
compliance with village property, building codes, health, fire, water and sewer
codes. In the event that the owner shall fail to arrange an appointment, the
code enforcement officer shall send a notice establishing a date and time for
said inspection. The owner shall pay the two hundred dollar ($200.00)
inspection fee to the village within thirty (30) days of the inspection. An
unpaid fee shall be a lien upon the premises.
      4.   The notice shall contain a copy of the ordinance codified herein, a
copy of the registration form the owner is required to file pursuant to this
section, and a notice of the owner's right to appeal the code enforcement
officer's determination.
   C.   Appeal Of Determination:
      1.   An owner of a building determined by the code enforcement officer to
be a vacant building as provided for in this section may appeal that
determination to the village attorney or his or her designee. Such appeal shall
be in writing and shall be filed with the village attorney within fifteen (15)
days of the date of mailing of the notice of determination. The filing of an
appeal stays the owner's obligation to register his building as required by
this section. The appeal shall contain a complete statement of the reasons the
owner disputes the code enforcement officer's determination, shall set forth
specific facts in support thereof, and shall include all evidence the owner
relies upon to support the appeal. The village attorney shall decide the appeal
on the basis of facts presented by the owner in his or her written appeal and
the code enforcement officer's written determination.
      2.   The burden is upon the owner to present sufficient evidence to
persuade the village attorney that had the evidence been known to the code
enforcement officer at the time the code enforcement officer made the
determination, the code enforcement officer would more likely than not have
determined that the subject building was not a "vacant building" within the
meaning of this section.
      3.   The village attorney shall send written notice of his decision to
the owner within ten (10) days of his or her receipt of the appeal. The village
attorney may, but is not required to, seek additional information from the
owner. The village attorney may, upon written notice thereof to the owner, take
no more than ten (10) additional days, to decide the appeal if he or she
determines that such additional time is required for consideration of the
appeal.
      4.   An owner who wishes to challenge applicability of this section to
his/her building without the code enforcement officer's determination having
been made, shall set forth specific facts to support nonapplicability in
writing to the code enforcement officer. In the event the code enforcement
officer determines that the subject building is a "vacant building", the owner
shall have the right to appeal the code enforcement officer's determination to
the village attorney as provided herein.
   D.   Obligation To Register: The owner of a building who knows, or from all
the facts and circumstances should know, that his or her building is or has
become a "vacant building" within the meaning of this section after the
effective date hereof or the owner of a building, which the code enforcement
officer determines at any time to be a "vacant building", or the owner of a
building whose appeal from the code enforcement officer's determination has
been denied by the village attorney shall take the actions provided for in this
section within fifteen (15) days after either the date of the code enforcement
officer's notice of determination or occurrence of the facts which would cause
a reasonable person to believe that the building was a "vacant building", or
denial of the appeal, whichever is applicable. Registration does not exonerate
the owner from compliance with all applicable codes and ordinances, including
this section, nor does it preclude any of the actions the village is authorized
to take pursuant to this section or elsewhere in this code.
      1.   Registration Requirements:
         a.   Register the building with the code enforcement officer, on a
form provided by the code enforcement officer and pay the one hundred dollar
($100.00) annual nonprorated vacant building registration fee. The form shall
include, as a minimum, the name, street address, and telephone number of the
owner; the case name and number of any litigation pending concerning or
affecting the building, including bankruptcy cases; and the name, street
address, and telephone number of all persons with any legal interest in the
building or the premises. The form shall require the owner to identify a
natural person twenty one (21) years of age or older who maintains a permanent
address in Kankakee County, Illinois, to accept service on behalf of the owner
with respect to any notices the code enforcement officer sends pursuant to this
section or service of process in any proceeding commenced to enforce any
provision of this section, and file with the code enforcement officer on the
registration form, the name, address, telephone number, of said person. A
street address is required. A post office box is not an acceptable address. In
the event that the property becomes occupied prior to the expiration of six (6)
months after the original determination, one-half (1/2) of the fee paid shall
be refunded to the owner;
         b.   Renew the vacant building registration each year on the
anniversary date of the first filing for the time the building remains vacant
and pay the required one hundred dollar ($100.00) annual fee; and
         c.   File an amended registration within fifteen (15) days of any
change in the information contained in the annual registration. A new
registration is required for any change in ownership whatsoever.
      2.   Notice; Inspection: The form shall require the owner to indicate his
or her "acceptance of notice by posting" consenting to service of notices sent
or required to be sent, pursuant to this section, by posting on the building if
the owner fails to renew the registration if required, or maintain as current
with the code enforcement officer the information required regarding the person
designated to accept notice and service of process.
The owner shall allow for a code compliance inspection of the interior of the
vacant building and shall pay the two hundred dollar ($200.00) fee therefor
within thirty (30) days of the inspection. Such inspection will determine the
extent of compliance with village property, building codes, health, fire, water
and sewer codes. The village shall send the inspection report to the owner
within thirty (30) days.
      3.   Insurance: Obtain liability insurance and maintain such insurance
for as long as the building is vacant, and file evidence of such insurance with
the code enforcement officer, as follows: an amount equal to three (3) times
the assessed valuation of the real estate and all improvements thereon as
determined by the Kankakee County assessor.
      4.   Vacant Building Plan: At the time a building is registered as
required herein, the owner shall submit a vacant building plan. The code
enforcement officer may prescribe a form for the plan. If the owner fails to
submit the plan as provided for by this section, the code enforcement officer
may determine the plan. The plan shall contain the following as a minimum:
         a.   A plan of action to repair any doors, windows, or other openings
which are boarded up or otherwise secured by any means other than conventional
methods used in the design of the building or permitted for new construction or
similar type. The proposed repair shall result in openings being secured by
conventional methods used in the design of the building or by methods permitted
for new construction of similar type with board removed. Boarding shall be
accomplished with materials and methods described by the code enforcement
officer. The owner shall maintain the building in an enclosed and secure state
until the building is reoccupied or made available for immediate occupancy. If
the owner demonstrates that securing of the building will provide adequate
protection to the public, the code enforcement officer may waive the
requirement of an enclosure.
         b.   For buildings and premises thereof which are determined by the
code enforcement officer as being or containing public nuisances, as defined in
this section, then the vacant building plan shall contain a plan of action to
remedy such public nuisance(s).
         c.   A time schedule identifying a date of commencement of repair and
date of completion of repair for each improperly secured opening and nuisance
identified by the code enforcement officer.
         d.   When the owner proposes to demolish the vacant building, then the
owner shall submit a plan and time schedule for such demolition.
         e.   A plan of action to maintain the building and premises thereof in
conformance with this section.
         f.   A plan of action, with a time schedule, identifying the date the
building will be habitable and occupied or offered for occupancy or sale. The
time schedule shall include date(s) of commencement and completion of all
actions required to achieve habitability. No plan which provides for compliance
with this section or, which will not, as determined by the code enforcement
officer, achieve such compliance, within six (6) months, in the case of a
vacant boarded building, and two (2) years, in the case of a vacant, unboarded,
and code compliant building will be approved.
         g.   All premises upon which unoccupied or vacant buildings are
located and the exteriors shall at all times be maintained in compliance with
this code.
         h.   Exterior lighting according to standards established by the code
enforcement officer and available from the code enforcement officer.
      5.   Signage: Affix in a public place and visible to the public located
upon or adjacent to the main entrance door to any building which is boarded, a
weatherproof notice, and providing the following information: The name,
address, and telephone number of the owner, and in addition, for buildings
which are the subject of a foreclosure action, the name, address, and telephone
number of the plaintiff and the plaintiffs attorney, if any, in the foreclosure
action. The sign must be placed so that its message is legible from the public
way.
   E.   Approval Of Plan:
      1.   Review Building Plan: The code enforcement officer shall review the
proposed vacant building plan in accordance with the standards below. The code
enforcement officer shall send notice to the owner of the vacant building of
his determination.
      2.   Standards For Plan Approval: In considering the appropriateness of a
vacant building plan, the code enforcement officer shall include the following
in his or her consideration and shall make written findings as to each:
         a.   The purposes of this section and intent of the village council to
minimize the time a building is boarded or otherwise vacant.
         b.   The effect of the building and the proposed plan on adjoining
property.
         c.   The length of time the building has been vacant.
         d.   The presence of any public nuisances on the property.
         e.   The likelihood that the plan or portion(s) thereof will prevent
or ameliorate the condition it is designed to address.
   F.   Authority To Modify Plan, Right Of Appeal: The code enforcement officer
shall, upon notice to the vacant building owner, have the right to modify the
vacant building plan by modifying the dates of performance, the proposed
methods of action, or by imposing additional requirements consistent with this
section he or she deems necessary to protect the public health, safety, or
welfare.
   G.   Failure To Comply With Plan: Failure to have an approved plan within
thirty (30) days of filing the registration form or failure to comply with the
approved plan shall constitute a violation of this section subjecting the owner
of the building to penalties as provided in this section and to any remedies
the village may avail itself of as provided for herein and elsewhere in this
code, including, but limited to, an action to compel correction of property
maintenance violations.
   H.   Other Enforcement: The registration of a vacant building shall not
preclude action by the village to demolish or to take other action against the
building pursuant to other provisions of this section, this code, or other
applicable legislation.
   I.   Certification: A certificate of code compliance for vacant buildings
issued by the code enforcement officer and payment in full of all fees imposed
pursuant to this section are required prior to any occupancy of a vacant
building.
   J.   Boarding Of Buildings: It is the policy of the village of Herscher that
boarding is a temporary solution to prevent unauthorized entry into a vacant
building and that boarded buildings are a public nuisance. A vacant building
may not remain boarded longer than six (6) months unless an extension of that
time is part of a plan approved by the code enforcement officer.
A vacant building which is unboarded and code compliant and for which boarding
is determined by the code enforcement officer on the basis of police reports,
citizen complaints, and other information of other type considered reliable by
reasonable persons, to not require boarding to prevent unauthorized entry may
not remain vacant for more than two (2) years without an approved plan for
occupancy, sale, demolition, or other disposition of the building.
   K.   Enforcement And Penalties:
      1.   Any person found to have violated any provision of this section
shall be subject to a minimum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day per
violation to a maximum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per day per violation,
in addition to any other legal or equitable remedies available to the village.
Such other remedies include, but are not limited to, injunctive relief,
application to a court of competent jurisdiction for a receiver, demolition, or
condemnation, contracting for the repair or purchase of the premises, or
foreclosure of any lien the village may have thereon.
      2.   A separate and distinct offense shall be committed each day on which
such person or persons shall violate the provisions of this section.
      3.   The village may enforce this section in its administrative
adjudication system or through the court system. Administrative adjudication
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this code, as it may be
amended.
      4.   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the village from immediately
condemning as provided for in this code a building or taking other immediate
action upon a determination that the building is a public nuisance or poses an
imminent danger to the occupants of the building; or the public health, safety
and welfare. (Ord. 11-34, 10-3-2011)
8-1-10: DEMOLITION:
Any person desiring to demolish a building or structure shall file first with
the village clerk an application for a demolition permit which shall contain
the following:
   A.   A sketch showing the location of the proposed demolition. The sketch
will include locations of septic systems, cisterns, buried fuel tanks, water
lines, sewer lines, electrical lines, gas mains and/or lines, and any other
utility lines on the property on which the structure is to be demolished.
   B.   The name and address of the owner of record of the lot or lots upon
which demolition is to take place and the consent of such owner to such
proposed demolition, if the application is submitted by any person other than
the said owner.
   C.   The name and address of the person who is to perform the proposed
demolition.
   D.   The fee for a demolition permit shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). The
applicant shall also furnish the village with a five thousand dollar
($5,000.00) surety bond issued by an insurance or bonding company licensed to
do business in the state of Illinois and evidence of liability insurance in an
amount of not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for
personal injury or property damage. The village shall be named as an additional
insured on said policy during the period in which the demolition and removal of
debris takes place.
Demolition permits shall be valid for a period sixty (60) days from date of
issue. Upon request of the applicant (demolition permit holder) the village may
issue an extension of the demolition permit which shall be valid for a period
of sixty (60) days. The village shall charge the applicant/permit holder a fee
of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for any such extension. Any such
extension shall only be valid as to the property for which the original permit
was issued.
   E.   Said permits shall expire sixty (60) days from the date of issuance
unless otherwise provided for in this code.
   F.   The applicant/holder of the demolition permit shall be responsible for
removal of all debris resulting from the demolition. All such debris shall be
removed from the property on which the demolition occurred within ten (10) days
of the completion of the demolition.
   G.   Any person demolishing any structure without having first obtained a
demolition permit as provided for herein may be fined not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each day
such demolition occurs without having obtained a permit. In addition, any
person failing to remove debris from the property on which the demolition
occurred may be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each day such debris remains on the
property after its removal is required by subsection F of this section. (Ord.
12-6, 5-7-2012)
ARTICLE A. INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Adopted
8-1A-2: Amendments
8-1A-1: ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
village clerk of the village of Herscher, being marked and designated as the
international building code, 2018 edition, including all appendices, as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
building code of the village of Herscher, in the state of Illinois, for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and
the demolition of such structures as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said building code
on file in the office of the village of Herscher are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this article, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
8-1A-2 of this article. (Ord. 05-04, 1-3-2005; amd. 25-01, 1-21-2025)
8-1A-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert: "village of Herscher"
   Section 1612.3. Insert: "village of Herscher"
   Section 1612.3. Insert: (date of flood insurance study for village of
Herscher)
   Section 3410.2. Insert: (date of effectiveness of building codes within the
village of Herscher)
(Ord. 05-04, 1-3-2005)
ARTICLE B. INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
8-1B-1: Adopted
8-1B-2: Amendments
8-1B-1: ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
clerk of the village of Herscher, being marked and designated as the
international residential code, 2018 edition, including all appendices, as
published by the International Code Council, be and hereby is adopted as the
residential code of the village of Herscher, in the state of Illinois, for
regulating and governing the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement,
replacement, repair, equipment, location, removal and demolition of detached
one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses
not more than 3 stories in height with separate means of egress as herein
provided); providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said residential code on file in the office of the
village of Herscher are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as
if fully set out in this article, with additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in section
8-1B-2 of this article. (Ord. 05-01, 1-3-2005; amd. 25-01, 1-21-2025)
8-1B-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section R101.1 Insert: "village of Herscher"
      Table R301.2(1):
         a.   Severe
         b.   42" (to top of footing)
         c.   Moderate to heavy
         d.   Slight to moderate
         e.   Basic wind speed 90
         f.   Dry bulb 21/2% temp 89
         g.   33%g category c
         h.   No flood map on available FEMA community ID# 17x033
         i.   Yes
         j.   <1000-2000 (degree F days)
         k.   50 degrees F
   Section R2603.6.1 Insert: "24 inches"; "24 inches"
   Section R3103.1 Insert: "6 inches"; "6 inches"
(Ord. 05-01, 1-3-2005)
ARTICLE C. INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
8-1C-1: Adopted
8-1C-2: Amendments
8-1C-1: ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
village clerk of the village of Herscher, being marked and designated as the
international fuel gas code, 2018 edition, including all appendices, as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
fuel gas code of the village of Herscher, in the state of Illinois, for
regulating and governing fuel gas systems and gas fired appliances as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said fuel gas code on file in the office of the village
of Herscher are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this article, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in section
8-1C-2 of this article. (Ord. 05-03, 1-3-2005; amd. Ord. 25-01, 1-21-2025)
8-1C-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert: "village of Herscher"
   Section 106.5.2. Insert: delete
   Section 106.5.3. Insert: delete
   Section 108.4. Insert: ordinance violation: $500.00; zero
   Section 108.5. Insert: $100.00; $500.00
(Ord. 05-03, 1-3-2005)
ARTICLE D. INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
8-1D-1: Adopted
8-1D-2: Amendments
8-1D-1: ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
village clerk of the village of Herscher, being marked and designated as the
international plumbing code, 2018 edition, including all appendices, be and is
hereby adopted as the plumbing code of the village of Herscher, in the state of
Illinois, for regulating and governing the design, construction, quality of
materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of plumbing systems as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said plumbing code on file in the office of the village
of Herscher are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this article, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in section
8-1D-2 of this article. (Ord. 05-02, 1-3-2005; amd. Ord. 25-01, 1-21-2025)
8-1D-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert: "village of Herscher"
   Section 106.6.2. Insert: "$        per inspection"
   Section 106.6.3. Insert: delete
   Section 108.4. Insert: "an ordinance violation"; "$500.00"; "zero days"
   Section 108.5. Insert: "$100.00"; "$500.00"
   Section 305.6.1. Insert: (number of inches the sewage disposal systems and
building sewers shall be below grade in millimeters)
   Section 904.1. Insert: (number of inches that vent pipes extended through a
roof shall be terminated)
(Ord. 05-02, 1-3-2005)
ARTICLE E. INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE
SECTION:
8-1E-1: Adopted
8-1E-2: Amendments
8-1E-3: Geographic Limits
8-1E-1: ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
board of trustees of the village of Herscher, being marked and designated as
the international fire code, 2018 edition, including all appendices, as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
fire code of the village of Herscher, in the state of Illinois, for regulating
and governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion
hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances,
materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the
occupancy of buildings and premises as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said fire code on
file in the office of the village of Herscher are hereby referred to, adopted,
and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this article, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
8-1E-2 of this article. (Ord. 05-05, 1-3-2005; amd. Ord. 25-01, 1-21-2025)
8-1E-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert: "village of Herscher"
   Section 109.3. Insert: "ordinance violation"; "$500.00"; "zero"
   Section 111.4. Insert: "$100.00"; "$500.00"
(Ord. 05-05, 1-3-2005)
8-1E-3: GEOGRAPHIC LIMITS:
The geographic limits referred to in certain sections of the 2003 international
fire code are hereby established as follows:
   Section 3204.3.1.1 (geographic limits in which the storage of flammable
cryogenic fluids in stationary containers is prohibited): "village of Herscher"
   Section 3404.2.9.5.1 (geographic limits in which the storage of class I and
class II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings is prohibited):
"village of Herscher"
   Section 3406.2.4.4 (geographic limits in which the storage of class I and
class II liquids in above-ground tanks is prohibited): "village of Herscher"
   Section 3804.2 (geographic limits in which the storage of liquefied
petroleum gas is restricted for the protection of heavily populated or
congested areas): "village of Herscher"
(Ord. 05-05, 1-3-2005)
ARTICLE F. INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
8-1F-1: Adopted
8-1F-2: Amendments
8-1F-1: ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
village clerk of the village of Herscher, being marked and designated as the
international mechanical code, 2018 edition, including all appendices, as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
mechanical code of the village of Herscher, in the state of Illinois, for
regulating and governing the design, construction, quality of materials,
erection, installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement,
addition to, use or maintenance of mechanical systems as herein provided;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
mechanical code on file in the office of the village of Herscher are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
article, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in section
8-1F-2 of this article. (Ord. 05-06, 1-3-2005; amd. Ord. 25-01, 1-21-2025)
8-1F-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert: "village of Herscher"
   Section 106.5.2. Insert: "$        per inspection"
   Section 106.5.3. Insert: delete
   Section 108.4. Insert: "ordinance violation"; "$500.00"; "zero"
   Section 108.5. Insert: "$100.00"; "$500.00"
(Ord. 05-06, 1-3-2005)
ARTICLE G. PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
8-1G-1: Adopted
8-1G-2: Amendments
8-1G-1: ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
village clerk of the village of Herscher, being marked and designated as the
international property maintenance code, 2018 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the property
maintenance code of the village of Herscher, in the state of Illinois, for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; and each and all
of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
property maintenance code on file in the office of the village clerk are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
article, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes prescribed in
section
8-1G-2 of this article. (Ord. 10-7, 7-6-2010; amd. Ord. 25-01, 1-21-2025)
8-1G-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1 Title. Insert "village of Herscher".
   Section 102.3 Application Of Other Codes. Delete "international zoning code"
and replace with "village of Herscher zoning ordinance".
   Section 103.5 Fees. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 106.4 Violation Penalties. Replace with the following language:
      "Any person who shall violate a provision of this code, or fail to comply
therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, shall be subject to fines
of a minimum of $100 and a maximum of $500 for each violation. Each day that a
violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate
offense."
   Section 302.4 Weeds. Insert "eight (8) inches".
   Section 304.14 Insect Screens. Insert "April 1st to November 30th".
   Chapter 5 Plumbing Facilities And Fixture Requirements. Delete all
references to the "international plumbing code" and replace with "Illinois
state plumbing code".
   Section 602.3 Heat Supply. Insert "November 1st to April 30th".
   Section 602.4 Occupiable Work Spaces. Insert "November 1st to April 30th".
(Ord. 10-7, 7-6-2010)
CHAPTER 2
EARTH HOME REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purpose And Intent
8-2-2: Provisions Declared Reasonable And Minimum Standard
8-2-3: Earth Home Defined
8-2-4: Additional Plan Requirements
8-2-5: Adjoining Landowner Permission
8-2-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
This Chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To ensure sound and harmonious construction of conventional and
innovative residential construction by establishing minimum standards for
design and construction of said innovative construction.
   B.   To ensure the development of land to the highest possible use with all
the necessary protection against deterioration and obsolescence which would
adversely affect the living environment or tax base.
   C.   To provide a common ground for understanding and a sound working
relationship between the Village and the builder and to safeguard the interest
of the homeowner and the Village. (1983 Code)
8-2-2: PROVISIONS DECLARED REASONABLE AND MINIMUM STANDARD:
This Chapter sets forth requirements which are considered reasonable and are
held in every instance to be the minimum for the promotion of the public
health, safety, comfort, morals and general welfare and the regulations herein
should encourage orderly growth, development and improvement in the Village.
(1983 Code)
8-2-3: EARTH HOME DEFINED:
"Earth home" is hereby defined as a single-family detached dwelling unit with
all rooms for habitation on one or more levels, and constructed in such a
manner that portions of the structure may be covered with earth. (1983 Code)
8-2-4: ADDITIONAL PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
Plans and specifications submitted with permits for earth home construction, in
addition to all other provisions contained in the Building Title and the Zoning
Title 1 , shall:
   A.   Contain at least eight hundred (800) square feet of floor area;
   B.   Have at least twenty percent (20%) of the total length of the perimeter
wall entirely exposed;
   C.   Provide for yard setback distances measured from the respective lot
lines to the point where the earth covering begins to slope;
   D.   Include building plans with the seal of a registered architect or
engineer attached thereto, drainage plans, final grading plans, soil bearing
characteristics and water table information. (1983 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10 of this Code.
8-2-5: ADJOINING LANDOWNER PERMISSION:
No earth home shall be constructed on a site within four hundred fifty feet
(450') of property, or adjoining property, on which an existing nonearth home
single- or multi-family residence exists or for which a building permit has
been applied for or issued for such nonearth home single- or multi-family
residence without the permission of each owner of said property. "Adjoining"
includes land directly across a public way. The owner or owners of said
property shall be determined as they appear on the tax records of this County.
(1983 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GARDEN SHED REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Garden Shed Defined
8-3-2: Building Permit Required
8-3-3: Size And Number Limitations
8-3-4: Construction And Maintenance Requirements
8-3-5: Zoning Title Compliance
8-3-1: GARDEN SHED DEFINED:
As used in this chapter, "garden shed" is hereby defined to include any
structure used for the storage of lawn mowers, garden tractors, rototillers,
garden and lawn tools and equipment, lawn and patio furniture, and other
similar lawn and garden items. (Ord., 5-20-1985)
8-3-2: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
A building permit shall be obtained whenever a garden shed is constructed,
installed, altered, converted, remodeled, structurally repaired, moved or
changed. At the time of application for said permit, a plan shall be submitted
to the building inspector. The building inspector shall inspect the location of
the proposed construction and the foundation forms before any concrete is
poured. (Ord., 5-20-1985; amd. Ord. 00-5, 3-20-2000)
8-3-3: SIZE AND NUMBER LIMITATIONS:
No garden shed shall exceed one hundred sixty eight (168) square feet in size
nor a height of twelve feet (12'). No more than one garden shed per lot shall
be allowed. (Ord. 11-8, 6-20-2011)
8-3-4: CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
All garden sheds shall be maintained in a reasonable condition and shall be
fastened to a concrete base which shall be a minimum of six inches (6") thick
on the outer eight inches (8") of said slab and the remaining portion of said
slab shall be a minimum of four inches (4") thick. (Ord., 8-16-1993)
8-3-5: ZONING TITLE COMPLIANCE:
All setback requirements specified in the zoning title of this code and
regulating the construction of accessory buildings as well as all other
accessory building regulations shall apply to the construction of garden sheds.
No more than one accessory and garden shed per lot shall be allowed. The area
occupied by the construction of any garden shed when added to the area occupied
by any existing or subsequently constructed accessory building cannot exceed
the maximum area to be occupied by accessory buildings as specified in the
zoning title of this code. (Ord., 5-20-1985)
CHAPTER 4
STORM SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Storm Sewers Defined
8-4-2: Prohibited Connections
8-4-3: Inspectors
8-4-4: Penalties
8-4-1: STORM SEWERS DEFINED:
As used in this Chapter, a "storm sewer" is defined as the sewer which carries
storm, surface and ground waters and into which no sewage or other waste is
intentionally admitted.
8-4-2: PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS:
No person shall connect within the Village any down-spouts, or any other
similar device directly into the storm sewer system within the Village.
8-4-3: INSPECTORS:
The Building Inspector and any other duly authorized employee of the Village
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in order to determine compliance with the provisions of
this Chapter.
8-4-4: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this Chapter shall be
served by the Village with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection A herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
violation. Each day in which such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
liable to the Village for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the Village
by reason of such violation. (Ord. 1986-2, 1-6-86)
CHAPTER 5
MULTIPLE DWELLING CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Multiple Dwelling Defined
8-5-2: Construction Requirements
8-5-1: MULTIPLE DWELLING DEFINED:
As used in this Chapter, "multiple dwelling" is hereby defined to include any
building or portion thereof designed for or occupied by more than two (2)
"families" as defined in Section 10-1-3 of this Code. (Ord. 1987-1, 9-8-1987)
8-5-2: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
The exterior of all multiple dwelling units hereinafter constructed within the
Village limits shall be constructed of aluminum siding, brick, stone or other
similar maintenance-free materials. (Ord. 1987-1, 9-8-1987)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Sidewalk Required
8-6-2: Sidewalk Construction Specifications
8-6-3: Conveyance Defined
8-6-4: Tract Of Land Defined
8-6-5: Corner Lots
8-6-6: Maintenance Of Sidewalks
8-6-7: Exemption From Chapter
8-6-8: Enforcement
8-6-9: Penalty
8-6-10: Penalty Avoidance; Escrow
8-6-11: Voluntary Residential Sidewalk Reimbursement
8-6-12: Voluntary Commercial Sidewalk Reimbursement
8-6-13: Mandated Sidewalk Replacement
8-6-1: SIDEWALK REQUIRED:
Prior to conveyance of any tract of land on which a structure or building is in
existence or prior to the occupancy or use of any new building or structure,
the seller as to conveyances and owner as to occupancy or use shall install
sidewalks according to the specifications as hereinafter set forth on that
portion of their premises fronting a public street in the village. (Ord. 1987-
2, 9-8-1987)
   A.   The term "nonpublic sidewalk" shall refer to any sidewalk constructed
by the property owner or tenant within the property lines not required to be
constructed by village ordinance. (Ord., 12-19-1994)
8-6-2: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
A sidewalk constructed within the village shall consist of 6-bag mix reinforced
or fibrecrete concrete and shall be a minimum of four feet (4') in width and
four inches (4") in depth and shall be located parallel to the property line;
provided, however, if there is in existence a structure, building, or tree, in
said area said sidewalks shall be installed in a manner which will comply with
the requirement of being as parallel to the property line as is feasible; and
said sidewalks shall be located one foot (1') outside the property line except
in subdivisions where existing sidewalks have been constructed otherwise, in
which instance a sidewalk shall conform to such existing sidewalks. On new
sidewalk construction a base of three inches (3") of compacted sand or three
inches (3") of stone shall be provided. The top surface elevation of the
finished sidewalk shall be a minimum of four inches (4") higher than the crown
of the adjacent street and the sidewalk grade shall be established by the
village building inspector. No concrete sidewalk within the village shall be
poured prior to inspection and approval of the subsurface base and formed
location by the building inspector. Sidewalks which intersect with street
curbing at street intersections shall be of such a design and construction as
to make them handicapped accessible. (Ord., 8-16-1993)
   A.   Nonpublic sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the same
specifications as public sidewalks set forth in this section, provided,
however, that nonpublic sidewalks shall not have any minimum width. (Ord., 12-
19-1994)
8-6-3: CONVEYANCE DEFINED:
As used in this chapter, a "conveyance" is hereby defined as including
transfers of ownership by deed or by assignment of beneficial interest in a
land trust, or by entering into an installment contract for deed whether said
agreement is recorded or unrecorded. (Ord. 1987-2, 9-8-1987)
8-6-4: TRACT OF LAND DEFINED:
As used in this chapter, "tract of land" is hereby defined to include any lot
or tract of land located within the village limits, and adjoining lots or
parcels of land owned by the same person and fronting the same public street
shall be considered one tract of land for purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 1987-
2, 9-8-1987)
8-6-5: CORNER LOTS:
On corner lots in the village, sidewalks shall be installed on both frontages
abutting the public streets. (Ord. 1987-2, 9-8-1987)
8-6-6: MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALKS:
The owner of any lot on which a sidewalk is installed shall maintain said
sidewalk in a manner which ensures the safe and beneficial use of said sidewalk
by the residents of the village and the general public. No sidewalk shall be
removed by any person unless a replacement sidewalk is installed within thirty
(30) days of the date of such removal. (Ord. 1987-2, 9-8-1987)
8-6-7: EXEMPTION FROM CHAPTER:
The following shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Unimproved lots or tracts of land not falling within the definition of
section
8-6-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Any lot or tract of land on which, in the opinion of the village
inspector, it is not economically or structurally feasible for the placement of
sidewalks along the lot frontage of the public street due to the terrain or
placement of preexisting trees or other major improvements. (Ord. 1987-2, 9-8-
1987)
   C.   Any lot or tract of land located within a C-1, M-1 or M-2 district on
which, in the opinion of the village board, it is not economically practical
for the placement of sidewalks along the lot frontage of the public street due
to the current or intended use of the lot or tract of land. Such request for
exemption shall be filed with the village clerk prior to any conveyance and in
a timely manner which will allow said village board to consider said request
for exemption. (Ord., 4-16-1990)
8-6-8: ENFORCEMENT:
Enforcement of these provisions shall rest with the local building inspector.
(Ord. 1987-2, 9-8-1987)
8-6-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be
subject to a fine according to section
1-4-1 of this code and each day that said violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. (Ord. 1987-2, 9-8-1987)
8-6-10: PENALTY AVOIDANCE; ESCROW:
No violation of this chapter shall be deemed to have occurred if prior to
conveyance or occupancy the seller or owner has caused to be placed into an
escrow account approved by the village a sum equal to the estimated cost of
installation of sidewalks on the premises to be conveyed or occupied and
provided the holder of said escrowed funds is authorized by seller or owner to
disburse the funds to the village treasurer in the event said sidewalks are not
installed within thirty (30) days of conveyance, occupancy or suitable weather
for such installation. Upon such disbursement village shall be authorized to
install such sidewalks and shall use such funds disbursed to reimburse village.
If the sidewalks are installed by owner or owner's agent said escrowed funds
shall only be disbursed after inspection and approval of the installation by
the village building inspector. (Ord., 3-18-1991)
8-6-11: VOLUNTARY RESIDENTIAL SIDEWALK REIMBURSEMENT:
Effective upon final passage of this chapter, the village shall reimburse
owners of residential property located in the village an equal to fifty percent
(50%) of the cost as determined by the lowest responsible bid (inclusive of
labor and materials) for the owner’s voluntary installation of new sidewalk(s)
which replace(s) existing sidewalk(s) adjacent to such owners' property,
provided that prior to such reimbursement the village building inspector must:
   A.   Take measurements of the proposed sidewalk;
   B.   Approve the materials and method of installation of the new sidewalk;
and
   C.   Issue a permit for the installation of the new sidewalk;
and, provided that after completion of the new sidewalk, the village building
inspector must:
   D.   Perform a final inspection;
   E.   Approve the installation of the sidewalk, as completed; and
   F.   Approve the request for reimbursement in writing. (Ord. 13-10, 9-16-
2013; amd. Ord. 22-08, 7-18-2022)
8-6-12: VOLUNTARY COMMERCIAL SIDEWALK REIMBURSEMENT:
Effective upon final passage of this chapter, the village shall reimburse
owners of commercial property located in the village an equal to fifty percent
(50%) of the cost as determined by the lowest responsible bid (inclusive of
labor and materials for owner’s voluntary installation of new sidewalk(s) which
replace(s) existing sidewalk(s) adjacent to such owners' property, provided
that prior to such reimbursement the village building inspector must:
   A.   Take measurements of the proposed sidewalk;
   B.   Approve the materials and method of installation of the new sidewalk;
and
   C.   Issue a permit for the installation of the new sidewalk;
and, provided that after completion of the new sidewalk, the village building
inspector must:
   D.   Perform a final inspection;
   E.   Approve the installation of the sidewalk, as completed; and
   F.   Approve the request for reimbursement in writing. (Ord. 13-10, 9-16-
2013; amd. Ord. 22-08, 7-18-2022)
8-6-13: MANDATED SIDEWALK REPLACEMENT:
Effective October 1, 2013, when a property owner is mandated, by the state of
Illinois or the village of Herscher, to replace sidewalk on the public right of
way which lies adjacent to the owners' property, the village will reimburse the
property owner in an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the cost (inclusive
of labor and materials) of the replacement of the old sidewalk; provided,
however, that the village must approve a written cost estimate for any such
sidewalk replacement prior to the commencement of installation of such
replacement sidewalk; and provided that prior to such reimbursement the village
inspector must:
   A.   Take measurements of the proposed sidewalk;
   B.   Approve the materials and method of installation of the new sidewalk;
and
   C.   Issue a permit for the installation of the new sidewalk;
   and, provided that after completion of the new sidewalk, the village
building inspector must:
   D.   Perform a final inspection;
   E.   Approve the installation of the sidewalk, as completed; and
   F.   Approve the request for reimbursement in writing.
   G.   Sidewalks shall be constructed to comply with all applicable
ordinances, statutes, laws and regulations of the Village of Herscher, State of
Illinois and the United States. (Ord. 13-10, 9-16-2013; amd. Ord. 22-08, 7-18-
2022)
TITLE 9
SUBDIVISIONS1
1. As of July 1998, subdivision regulations are being maintained by the
village.
TITLE 10
ZONING
Purpose And Interpretation   1
Rules And Definitions   2
General Provisions   3
Zoning Districts And Map   4
Residential Districts   5
E-1 Estate Residential District   5A
R-1 Single-Family Residential District   5B
R-2 Two-Family Residential District   5C
R-3 Multiple-Family Residence District   5D
Commercial Districts   6
C-1 Downtown Commercial District   6A
C-2 Commercial District   6B
I-1 Light Industrial District   7
A-1 Agricultural District   8
Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses   9
Off-Street Parking And Loading   10
Signs   11
Administration And Enforcement   12
Photovoltaic Systems   13
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Authority
10-1-4: Interpretation
10-1-5: Separability
10-1-6: Scope Of Regulations
10-1-1: TITLE:
This Title is a Comprehensive Amendment to the 1974 Herscher Zoning Ordinance,
and shall be known and may be cited as the ”Herscher Zoning Ordinance.”
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
This Title is adopted pursuant to the State of Illinois Revised Statutes for
the following purposes:
   A.   Promotion of the public health, safety, morals, comfort and general
welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the Village by:
      1.   Requiring provisions for adherence to land use patterns deemed to
provide for development in the best interest of the entire Village as
indicated, explained and substantiated in the official plans of the Village.
      2.   Protecting ground water supplies by controlling inappropriate land
uses where soils and geological characteristics present the possibility of
diminishing supplies or contamination by pollutants.
      3.   Requiring provisions of adequate open space for sunlight, clean air,
privacy, noise abatement, recreation, pedestrian circulation, safe sight
distances for operation of motor vehicles.
      4.   Requiring provisions for adequate water supply and sewage disposal.
      5.   Requiring provisions that promote adequate police and fire
protection.
      6.   Providing for the opportunity to create a variety of housing
opportunities and life styles, employment, industrial and commercial
enterprises.
      7.   Prohibiting the intrusion of incompatible uses into residential,
commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational and other necessary natural
and man-made areas.
      8.   Requiring provisions for adequate and essential facilities, services
and utilities.
      9.   Requiring provisions of adequate control, operation and maintenance
of facilities necessary for public use.
   B.   Conserve the values of property throughout the Village by:
      1.   Prohibiting the intrusion of incompatible uses into residential,
commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, natural resources and other
necessary natural and man-made areas.
      2.   Requiring provisions of adequate open space for sunlight, clean air,
privacy, noise abatement, recreation, pedestrian circulation and safe sight
distances for operation of motor vehicles.
      3.   Requiring provisions for coordinated and harmonious land uses.
      4.   Requiring provisions for promoting adherence to land use patterns
deemed to provide for development in the best interest of the entire Village.
   C.   Lessening or avoiding congestion in the public streets and highways of
the Village by:
      1.   Requiring provisions for safe and adequate circulation of motor
vehicles, bicyclists and pedestrians.
      2.   Requiring provisions for adequate open space for safe site distances
for operation of motor vehicles.
      3.   Requiring provisions for coordinated and harmonious development.
   D.   Lessening or avoiding the hazards to persons and damage to property
resulting from the accumulation of runoff of storm or flood water within the
Village by:
      1.   Requiring provisions for controlling development within floodplains
or areas historically known to flood.
      2.   Requiring provisions for sediment and erosion control.
The standards and requirements contained in this Title, and the district
mapping reflected on the Herscher Zoning District Map, are intended to
implement the objectives of the Comprehensive Plan for the Village of Herscher.
10-1-3: AUTHORITY:
In order to ensure that the above purposes are realized, the Village has,
pursuant to the State of Illinois Revised Statutes, the power to:
   A.   Regulate and restrict the location and use of buildings, structures and
land.
   B.   Regulate and restrict the intensity of use.
   C.   Establish building or setback lines on or along any street, traffic
way, drive, parkway or storm or flood water runoff channel or basin.
   D.   Divide the entire Village into districts of such numbers, shapes, areas
and such different classes, according to the use of land and building, the
intensity of use (including the height of buildings and structures and
surrounding open space) and other classification as may be deemed best suited
to carry out the purpose.
   E.   Prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the character
of such districts.
   F.   Prevent additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures which would result in avoiding the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed.
10-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this Title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion and protection of the public health, safety, morals and welfare.
   B.   Conflicting Laws: Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of the
Title upon the: (1) use of land or buildings; (2) bulk of buildings; (3) floor
area requirements; (4) lot area requirements; (5) yard requirements; (6) other
requirements are either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable
conditions imposed by other provisions of the Title, or of any other law,
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any kind, the regulations which
are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or requirements shall
govern.
   C.   Existing Agreements: This Title is not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant or other private agreement, provided that where the
regulations of this Title are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
requirements than such easements, covenants or other private agreements, the
requirements of this Title shall govern.
   D.   Existing Violations: No building, structure or use, not lawfully
existing at the time of the adoption of this Title, shall become or be made
lawful solely by reason of the adoption of this Title, shall become or be made
lawful solely by reason of the adoption of this Title and to the extent that,
and in any manner that, said unlawful building, structure or use is in conflict
with the requirements of this Title, said building, structure or use remains
unlawful hereunder.
10-1-5: SEPARABILITY:
It is hereby to be the intention of the Village President and Board of Trustees
that the several provisions of this Title are separable, in accordance with the
following:
   A.   Provisions Of Title: If any court of competent jurisdiction shall
adjudge provisions of the Title to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect
any other provision of this Title not specifically included in said judgment.
   B.   Property Application: If any court of competent jurisdiction shall
adjudge invalid the application of any provisions of this Title to a particular
property, building or other structure, such adjustment shall not affect the
application of said provision to any other property, building or structure not
specifically included in said judgment.
10-1-6: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
It is hereby declared that the provisions of the Title shall apply to all
properties as hereinafter specifically provided:
   A.   New Uses: No building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be
erected, constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, moved or structurally altered,
and no building, structure or land shall hereafter be used, occupied or
arranged or designed for use or occupancy, nor shall any excavating or grading
be commenced in connection with any of the above matters, except as permitted
by the regulations herein which are applicable to the zoning district in which
such building, structure or land is located.
   B.   Existing Uses: Except as otherwise provided, all structural alterations
or relocations of existing buildings occurring hereafter, and all enlargements
of or additions to existing uses occurring hereafter, shall be subject to all
regulations herein which are applicable to the zoning district in which such
buildings, uses or land shall be located.
   C.   Existing Special Uses: Where a structure and use thereof of land
lawfully exists on the effective date of the Title, and is classified by this
Title as a special use in the district where it is located, such use shall be
considered a lawful special use. A special use permit issued in accordance with
procedures herein set forth shall be required only for any expansion or major
alteration of such existing legal special use.
If the special use ceases for a period of more than six (6) months, the special
use permit shall be void and the special use cannot again be started.
   D.   Nonconforming Uses: Any lawful building, structure or use existing at
the time of enactment of these zoning provisions may be continued, even though
such building, structure or use does not conform to the provisions herein for
the district in which it is located, and whenever a district shall be changed
hereafter, then the existing lawful use may be continued, subject to the
provisions of Chapter 9 of this Title.
   E.   Individual Lots Of Record: An individual lot of record in existence at
the time of the adoption of this Title which can fulfill at least eighty
percent (80%) of the required lot area and at least eighty percent (80%) of the
required lot width, may be developed for a use permitted within the zoning
district in which the lot is located, provided that it can be developed in full
compliance with the yard and setback requirements of the Title, with the
exception of R-2 Two-Family Residential lots existing prior to the date of this
chapter. R-2 Two-Family Residential lots of record in existence at the time of
the adoption of this chapter may comply with the front setback regulations set
forth in the 1974 Herscher Zoning Ordinance. Otherwise, an individual lot of
record in existence at the time of the adoption of this Title, which is unable
to meet the requirements of the Title as to lot area, lot width and yard
requirements can be developed only after a variance is granted by the Zoning
Board of Appeals. Any nonconforming lot may continue to be used as a legal
nonconforming use or building as provided for in Chapter 9 of this Title, in
the same manner as used at the time of adoption of the Title.
   F.   Contiguous Parcels: Except as provided in Chapter 9 of this Title, when
two (2) or more parcels of land, each of which lacks adequate area and
dimension to qualify for a permitted use under the requirements of the use of
district in which they are located, are contiguous and are held in one
ownership, at the time or subsequent to the adoption of this Title or
amendment, they shall be used as one zoning lot for such use, unless said
parcels meet at least eighty percent (80%) of the required lot width and lot
area as described in this Title, in which case, the parcels may be developed
pursuant to the requirements of Section 10-1-6E, above.
   G.   Building Permits: Where a building permit for a building or structure
has been issued in accordance with law prior to the effective date of this
Title, and provided that construction is begun within ninety (90) calendar days
of such effective date and diligently pursued to completion, within one (1)
year, said building or structure may be completed in accordance with the
approved plans on the basis of which the building permit was issued, and
further may upon completion be occupied under a certificate of occupancy by the
use for which originally designed, subject thereafter to the provisions of
Section
10-1-4,
10-1-5 and 10-1-6 of this Chapter and Chapter 3 of this Title.
   H.   Special Permits: Where the Zoning Official has issued a special use
permit, a temporary use permit, or a permit for a variance pursuant to the
provisions of this Title, such permit shall become null and void unless work
thereon is substantially under way within six (6) months of the date of the
issuance of such permit by the Zoning Official.
   I.   No land shall be used for public motor vehicle access to any other lot
or land unless that portion of the land has been officially approved as a
street, public or private, by the proper authorities.
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: General
10-2-2: Rules Of Word Construction
10-2-3: Definitions
10-2-1: GENERAL:
The rules and definitions contained in this Chapter shall be observed and
applied in the interpretation of all other sections herein, except when the
context clearly indicates otherwise.
10-2-2: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words used in
the singular number shall include the plural number and the plural the
singular.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   C.   The word "may" is permissive.
   D.   The word "lot" shall include the words "plot", "parcel"; the word "
building" includes all other structures or improvements of every kind,
regardless of similarity to buildings, and the phrase "used for" shall include
the phrases "arranged for", designed for", "intended for", “maintained for",
and "occupied for".
   E.   The word "person" includes firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well as an individual.
   F.   The masculine gender includes feminine and neuter.
10-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, when used in this Title, shall have the meanings
set forth, except where otherwise specifically indicated. Words and terms not
defined shall have the meaning indicated by the common dictionary definition.
ABUTTING:       To have a common property line or district line.
                An "accessory building or use" is one which:
                a.   In the case of a building, is a detached structure; and
                b.   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use; and
                c.   Is subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal building or
ACCESSORY       principal use served; and
BUILDING or     d.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants of the
USE:            principal building or principal use served; and
                e.   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or potential use
                served with the single exception of such accessory off-street parking facilities
                as are permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same zoning lot with the
                building or use served.
ADJACENT:       Lying near or in the immediate vicinity.
ADJOINING:      Touching or contiguous, as distinguished from lying near.
ADVERTISING     See Sign Advertising.
DEVICE:
                Land including necessary buildings and structures, for the raising of soil crops
                or the raising of domestic animals as the principal occupation of the residents
                or users thereof. It shall also include truck-farming, beekeeping, the raising of
AGRICULTURE:    fruit and berries, and selling the products thereof, but shall not include
                mechanized industrial animal farms. The land area (farm) necessary to constitute
                an agricultural use is twenty (20) acres. Agriculture shall not include the
                commercial feeding of garbage to swine or other animals.
                A public or private way, at the rear or side of property, permanently reserved as
ALLEY:          a means of secondary vehicular access to abutting property. Frontage on said
                alley shall not be construed as satisfying the requirements of the Title related
                to frontage on a dedicated street.
ALTERATIONS:    Any change in size, shape, character, occupancy, or use of a building or
                structure.
ANIMAL          A structure or portion thereof designed or used for the care, observation, or
HOSPITAL:       treatment of domestic animates by a registered veterinarian.
ANTENNA         Mast, pole, tripod or tower utilized for the purposes of either transmission or
STRUCTURE:      reception purposes or both.
                One or more rooms in an apartment building, or combination apartment and
APARTMENT:      commercial building, arranged, intended or designed or occupied as a dwelling
                unit of a single-family, an individual, or a group of individuals.
                A multi-family dwelling originally constructed to accommodate three (3) or more
APARTMENT       apartments, designed with more than one dwelling unit connected to a common
BUILDING:       corridor or entranceway, in contrast to single- or two-family dwellings converted
                for multi-family use.
                A building or portion thereof, containing facilities or washing more than two (2)
AUTOMOBILE      automobiles, using production line methods with a chain conveyor, blower, steam
LAUNDRY:        cleaning device, or other mechanical devices; or providing space, water and
                equipment for the hand washing of automobiles, whether by the customer or the
                operator.
AUTO REPAIR,    Complete repair, overhaul, and rebuilding of automobile motors and bodies,
MAJOR:          including overall painting.
AUTO REPAIR,    Incidental repairs, replacement of parts, and motor service to automobiles, but
MINOR:          excluding any operation specified under "Automobile Repair, Major."
                The sale of new and used automobiles and other motor vehicles in operating
                condition; the storage of automobiles and other motor vehicles in operating
AUTOMOBILE      condition and the repair and servicing of such vehicles, including body work,
SALES:          painting, motor rebuilding, where conducted within a completely enclosed
                building, but not including storage of trucks of more than five (5) tons in
                weight or buses.
                Any building or premises used for the dispensing, sale, or offering for sale at
AUTOMOBILE      retail to the public, of automobile fuels stored only in underground tanks and
SERVICE         located wholly within the lot lines; and the sale and installation of tires,
STATION:        batteries, other minor accessories, and minor auto repair, but not including a
                bulk plant, taking of major auto repairs, automobile wrecking, automobile sales,
                or automobile laundries where no chain conveyor is employed may be included.
                Any vehicle, without motor power, used or so constructed as to permit it being
AUTOMOBILE      used as a conveyance upon the public streets and highways and licensable as such,
TRAILER:        constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy as a dwelling or sleeping
                place for one or more persons, including also a self-propelled vehicle having
                body designed as living quarters.
                A roof-like cover, temporary in nature, which projects from the wall of a
AWNING:         building for the purpose of shielding a doorway or window from the elements and,
                in some cases, over-hangs a public way.
BASEMENT:       That portion of a building having more than one-half (1/2) of its height below
                the average lot grade.
BILLBOARD:      See Sign, Advertising.
                A building, other than a hotel, where meals for three (3) or more persons and not
                to exceed twelve (12) persons not a family are served for compensation to regular
BOARDING HOUSE: patrons by previous arrangement. If a number greater than twelve (12) are
                regularly served, the establishment shall be classified as a restaurant. Rest
                homes, nursing homes, homes for the aged, homes for children and penal
                institutions shall not be classified as "boarding homes."
                A line on the Zoning District Map designating the edge of a use district. Such a
BOUNDARY LINE:  boundary line may be a boundary line for two (2) use districts depending on the
                particular use districts located on each side of said line.
BOAT:           A small vessel propelled on water by oars, sails, or an engine.
                Permanently located, roofed, structure designed or intended for the enclosure,
BUILDING:       shelter or protection of persons, animals or moveable property of any kind and
                which is permanently affixed to the land.
BUILDING,       See Accessory Building or Use.
ACCESSORY:
BUILDABLE AREA: The space remaining on a zoning lot after the minimum yard requirements of the
                Title have been complied with.
BUILDING,       A building surrounded by an open space on the same lot.
DETACHED:
BUILDING        See Height of Building.
HEIGHT:
                The line nearest the front of and across a zoning lot, establishing the minimum
BUILDING LINE:  open space to be provided between the front line of a building or structure and
                the street right-of-way line.
BUILDING,       See Nonconforming Building.
NONCONFORMING:
BUILDING,       A nonaccessory building in which a principal use of the lot, on which it is
PRINCIPAL:      located, is conducted.
BUILDING        The line parallel to the street identifying the minimum distance between a street
SETBACK LINE:   right-of-way or property line and the nearest building foundation of any
                structure on the lot.
BUILDING, UNIT  One or more buildings located or grouped upon a lot and led under one ownership,
GROUP:          such as a school, institution, church or temple, industrial plant, shopping
                center, townhomes, apartment buildings, and similar uses.
                The term to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings or structures and
                location of same with respect to one another and includes the following:
                a.   Size and height of buildings.
                b.   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines, streets,
BULK:           to other buildings.
                c.   Gross floor area of buildings in relation to lot lines, streets, or to other
                buildings.
                d.   All open spaces allocated to buildings.
                e.   Amount of lot area per dwelling unit.
                A bulk storage plant shall mean any place where flammable liquids of ten thousand
BULK PLANT:     (10,000) gallons or more are received by tanker, pipe line, tank car or truck and
                are stored or blended in bulk for the purpose of distributing such liquids by
                tank trucks, pipe line, tank car or other container.
                The word "business" or the word "commerce" when used in the Title means the
BUSINESS:       engaging in the purchase, sale, barter, or exchange of goods, wares, or
                merchandise, or maintenance or operation of offices or recreational or amusement
                enterprises.
CAPACITY IN     The maximum number of persons that can avail themselves of the services (or
PERSONS:        goods) of an establishment, at any one time, with reasonable comfort and safety.
CARPORT:        An open sided, roofed automobile shelter, usually formed by extension of the roof
                from the side of a building.
CONTIGUOUS:     In contact, adjoining, or touching another object or item as distinguished from
                being adjacent.
CORNER LOT:     See Lot, Corner.
CERTIFY or      The specific inspection or tests where required have been performed and that such
CERTIFICATION:  tests or inspections verify compliance with the applicable requirements of this
                Title signed under oath and notarized.
COMPREHENSIVE   Extensively developed and evolving plan or any elements thereof, indicating the
PLAN:           proposed future development of the Village as prepared through the Planning
                Commission.
                The level of the established curb in front of the building measured at the center
                of such front. Where a building faces on more than one street, the "curb level"
CURB LEVEL:     shall be the average of the levels of the curbs at the center front of each
                street. Where no curb elevation has been established, the level of the centerline
                of the street shall be considered the "curb level".
                A portion of the Village within which certain uniform regulations and
DISTRICT:       requirements, or various combinations thereof, apply under the provisions of this
                Title.
DUPLEX          Two one-family dwellings separated only by a vertical party wall without
RESIDENCE:      openings. A duplex dwelling shall be considered as one building for the purposes
                of determining yard requirements.
                A building or portion thereof, but not including a house trailer, mobile or
DWELLING:       manufactured home, designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy,
                including one-family dwelling units, two-family dwelling units, and multi-family
                dwelling units, but not including hotels, boarding or lodging houses.
DWELLING,       A residential building which is joined to another dwelling at one or more sides
ATTACHED:       by a party wall or walls.
DWELLING,       A residential building which is entirely surrounded by open space on the same
DETACHED:       lot.
DWELLING,       A residential building containing three (3) or more dwelling units.
MULTI-FAMILY:
DWELLING,       A residential building containing one (1) dwelling unit only.
SINGLE-FAMILY:
DWELLING, TWO-  A residential building containing two (2) dwelling units only.
FAMILY:
                A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip or parcel of land by the
EASEMENT:       general public, a corporation, or a certain person or persons for a specific
                purpose or purposes.
                Services provided by public and private utilities necessary for the exercise of
                the principal use or service of the principal structure. These services include
                underground, surface, or overhead gas, electrical, steam, water, sanitary
ESSENTIAL       sewerage, storm water drainage, and communication systems and accessories
SERVICES:       thereto, such as poles, towers, weirs, drains, vaults, culverts, laterals,
                sewers, pipes, catch basins, water storage tanks, conduits, cables, fire alarm
                boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, pumps, lift stations, hydrants, etc.,
                but not including buildings that do not need to be in the immediate area of the
                uses they service.
                An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage, or
FAMILY:         adoption, or a group of individuals not related by blood, marriage, or adoption,
                living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
FARM:           Land being used for agricultural purposes.
FARM HOMESTEAD: The building located on a farm that is the residence of the farm owner or tenant
                operator.
FENCE:          Any construction of wood, metal, wire mesh, masonry, or other material erected
                for the purpose of assuring privacy, protection, or restraining animals.
FENCE, CLOSED:  A fence, including gates, which conceals from view from adjoining properties,
                streets, or alleys, activities conducted behind it.
                A fence, including gates, which has, for each one (1) foot wide segment extending
FENCE, OPEN:    over the entire length and height of the fence, sixty percent (60%) of the
                surface area in open spaces which afford a direct view through the fence.
                Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other material is deposited,
FILL:           placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported, or moved by man to a new
                location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
                The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the building
FLOOR AREA (for measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of
determining     walls separating two (2) buildings. The " floor area of a building" shall include
Floor Area      the basement floor area when more than one-half (1/2) of the basement height is
Ratio, FAR):    above the established curb level, floor space for mechanical equipment, attic
                space having headroom of seven feet, ten inches (7' 10"), enclosed porches, and
                floor area devoted to accessory uses.
FLOOR AREA (for
determining     The gross floor area taken from the outside walls of the building and any
off-street      basement floor area devoted to retailing activities, and floor area devoted to
parking and     the production or processing of goods or to business or professional offices.
loading
requirements):
                The floor area ratio of the building or other structure on any lot is determined
                by dividing the floor area of such building or structure by the area of the lot
                on which the building or structure is located. When more than one building or
FLOOR AREA      structure is located on a lot, then the floor area ratio is determined by
RATIO:          dividing the total floor area of all buildings or structures by the area of the
                lot, or, in the case of planned unit development, by the net site area. The floor
                area ratio requirements, as set forth under each zoning district, shall determine
                the maximum floor area allowable for a building or other structure (including
                both principal accessory buildings) in direct ratio to the gross area of the lot.
                All the property fronting on one side of a street between the two (2) nearest
FRONTAGE:       intersecting streets, measured along the line of the street, or if dead- ended,
                then all of the property abutting on one side between an intersecting street and
                the dead end of the street.
GARAGE,         A detached accessory building or portion of the main building, designed,
PRIVATE:        arranged, used, or intended to be used for the storage of passenger automobiles
                of the occupants of the premises.
                A building other than a private garage, used for the care, incidental servicing,
                and sale of automobile supplies, or where motor vehicles are parked or stored for
GARAGE, PUBLIC: remuneration, hire, or sale within the structure, but not including trucks,
                tractors, truck trailers, and commercial vehicles exceeding one and one-half (1½)
                tons' capacity.
                A dwelling to provide a socially dependent family environment for developmentally
                or mentally disabled patients, as specified in the 1988 Fair Housing Act
GROUP HOME:     Amendment of the Civil Rights Act of 1968. For purposes of this Title, the
                definition shall not include "halfway houses", uses for the recovering chemically
                dependent, prison work release programs, or any use that does not house solely
                the developmentally disabled.
GROUP HOME,     A group home of nine (9) to fifteen (15) residents including live-in staff.
LARGE:
GROUP HOME,     A group home of eight (8) or fewer residents including live-in staff.
SMALL:
                The vertical distance measured from the sidewalk level or its equivalent
                established grade opposite the middle of the front of the building to the highest
HEIGHT OF       elevation of the roof in the case of a slant or flat roof; to the deck line of a
BUILDING:       mansard roof; and to the mean height level between eaves and ridge of a gable,
                hip or gambrel roof; provided that where buildings are set back from the street
                lines, the height of the building may be measured from the average elevation of
                the finished lot grade at the front of the building.
                An occupation or profession practiced by a member of the family residing on the
                premises in connection with which there is no indication from the exterior, other
                than one unaniminated, nonilluminated sign of not more than one square foot in
                size, that the building is being utilized in part for any purpose other than that
                of a dwelling. Any commodity intended for sale or use elsewhere shall be stored
HOME            on the premises in a completely enclosed structure. No more than one person is
OCCUPATION:     employed other than members of the family residing on the premises; and no
                mechanical or electrical equipment is used which creates noise, odor, vibration,
                or other activity in such a manner as to create a public nuisance or hazard at
                the property lines. A professional person may use his residence for consultation,
                emergency treatment, or performance of individual religious rites. Home
                occupations, further, shall not utilize more than twenty-five percent (25%) of
                the total floor area of any one story of the principal building.
INDUSTRIAL      A mechanized farm operation, confined to a limited amount of space, to raise
ANIMAL FARM:    animals or poultry under controlled conditions of food, water, and exercise.
                Any parcel of land where waste, scrap metal, paper, rags, or similar materials
JUNK YARD:      are brought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled,
                including auto and building wrecking yards, but excluding similar uses taking
                place entirely within a completely enclosed building.
                Any premises or portion thereof on which more than a combined total of four (4)
KENNEL,         dogs, cats or other domestic animals or pets over six (6) months of age are kept
COMMERCIAL:     for the purpose of sale; or where any number of animals are cared for in return
                for remuneration.
                A legally divided area or portion of land five (5) acres or less in size under
                single ownership or control that is intended to be occupied by one use, group of
LOT:            uses, one main building, or structure. Within all districts, all lots shall be
                lots of record when less than five (5) acres in size as required by and in
                conformance with the Village Subdivision Regulations and the State Plat Act.
LOT AREA:       The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side, and rear lot line.
                A lot located at the intersection of two (2) streets or a lot bounded on two (2)
LOT, CORNER:    sides by a curving street and any two (2) cords of which form an angle of one
                hundred twenty (120) degrees or less measured on the lot side.
                That percentage of a lot which, when viewed directly from above, would be covered
LOT COVERAGE:   by a structure or structures, or any part thereof, excluding projecting of roof
                areas.
LOT DEPTH:      The distance between the midpoints of the front line and the midpoint of the rear
                lot lines measured within the lot boundaries.
LOT LINE,       The front property line of a zoning lot, abutting or within a street. On a comer
FRONT:          lot, either lot line along either street may be considered to be a front lot
                line.
LOT, DOUBLE     A lot other than a comer lot having frontage on two (2) or more streets. An alley
FRONTAGE:       shall not be considered a street.
LOT LINE,       A lot line common with another lot.
INTERIOR:
LOT LINE:       The property boundary line of a lot.
LOT LINE, REAR: The boundary of a lot which is most distant from, and is most nearly parallel to,
                the front lot line or front lot lines.
                A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been legally
LOT OF RECORD:  recorded, or land which has a parcel index number within the Village at the time
                this Title is adopted.
                A comer lot at right angles or approximately right angles to the general pattern
LOT, REVERSED   of the area, the street side lot line of which is substantially a continuation of
CORNER:         the front lot line to the rear. The rear of the corner lot is adjacent to the
                side of another lot, whether across an alley or not.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Lot lines other than front or rear lot lines.
                The horizontal distance between side lot lines, or between the side lot line and
LOT WIDTH:      the lot line adjoining a street of a comer lot, measured along the required
                minimum building setback line created by the front yard requirement of the
                district in which the lot is located.
                A parcel of land, composed of one or more recorded lots or a parcel of land
                described by metes and bounds that is of sufficient size to meet the minimum
                requirements of the Title concerning use, coverage, width, area, yards, or other
LOT, ZONING:    requirements of this Title and having frontage on an improved public street, and
                which is designated by its owner or developer as a tract of land to be used,
                developed, or built upon as a unit, under single ownership and control. A "zoning
                lot" may or may not coincide with the definition of a "lot of record".
                A building assembly or system of building sub- assemblies, designed for
MANUFACTURED    habitation as a dwelling for one or more persons, including the necessary
HOUSING:        electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilating, and other service systems, which is
                of closed or open construction and which is made or assembled by a manufacturer,
                on or off the building site, with a permanent foundation.
MARQUEE or      A roof like structure of a permanent nature which projects from the wall of a
CANOPY:         building and, in some cases, overhangs the public way.
                A movable or portable unit, which is eight (8) body feet or more in width and is
                thirty two (32) feet or more in length, and constructed to be towed on its own
                chassis (comprised of frame and wheels) from the place of construction to the
                location or subsequent locations, subject to the provisions of Chapter 15 of the
                Illinois Vehicle Code, and designed to be used without a permanent foundation and
                connected to utilities for year round occupancy with or without a permanent
MOBILE HOME:    foundation. The term shall include: (1) units containing parts that may be
                folded, collapsed, or telescoped when being towed and that may be expanded to
                provide additional cubic capacity; and (2) units composed of two (2) or more
                separately towable components designed to be joined into one integral unit
                capable of being separated again into the components for repeated towing.
                The term shall include units designed to be used for residential, commercial,
                educational, or industrial purposes, excluding, however, recreational vehicles.
                A parcel or tract of land developed with facilities for locating three (3) or
                more "mobile homes", provided each mobile home contains a kitchen, flush toilet,
MOBILE HOME     shower or bath and that such mobile home park shall be for use only by
PARK:           nontransient dwellers remaining continuously for more than one year, whether or
                not a charge is made. It shall not include a sales lot in which motor vehicles or
                unoccupied trailers are parked for the purpose of inspection or sale.
MOTOR HOME,     A self-contained motor vehicle, not used commercially, designed, or permanently
MINI MOTOR      converted to provide living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use,
HOME, VAN       with direct walkthrough access to the living quarters from the driver's seat.
CAMPER:
MOTOR VEHICLE:  Any passenger vehicle, truck, tractor, tractor-trailer, trailer, or semi-trailer
                propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
NONCONFORMING   A structure which does not comply in some respect with the lot size requirements
STRUCTURE:      or bulk regulations applicable to new structures in the zoning district in which
                it is located.
NONCONFORMING   An existing use of a structure or land which does not comply in some respect with
USE:            the use regulations applicable to new uses in the zoning district in which it is
                located.
NURSERY, CHILD  An establishment for the part-time care of five (5) or more children of pre-
CARE:           elementary school age in addition to the members of the family residing therein.
                An institution for the care of children or the aged or infirm, or a place of rest
NURSING HOME:   for those suffering bodily disorders, but not including facilities for surgical
                care or institutions for the care and treatment of mental illness, alcoholism, or
                narcotics addiction.
ODOR THRESHOLD: The lowest concentration of odorous matter in air that will produce an olfactory
                response in a human being.
                Land used or occupied for the purpose of buying or selling merchandise stored or
OPEN SALES LOT: displayed out-of-doors prior to sale. (Such materials include, but are not
                limited to, passenger cars, trucks, motor scooters, motorcycles, boats,
                agricultural equipment, and monuments.)
OWNER:          Any individual, firm, or corporation having a possessory interest entitled to
                exclusive possession in land, buildings, or possessions.
PARCEL:         All contiguous land in one ownership.
PARKING LOT:    Public or private land intended for the use as a facility for parking motor
                vehicles. Parking may be with or without fee.
                Space within a public or private parking area of not less than one hundred eighty
PARKING SPACE,  (180) square feet, nine feet by twenty feet (9' X 20'), exclusive of access
AUTOMOBILE:     drives, for the storage of one passenger automobile or commercial vehicle under
                one and one-half (1½) tons' capacity.
PARTICULATE     Material other than water which is suspended in or discharged into the atmosphere
MATTER:         in a finely divided form as a liquid or solid.
PARTY WALL:     A solid common wall which extends from its footing below grade to the underside
                of floor/roof and divides the buildings.
                A compact and contiguous land area that is designed for educational, religious,
PERMANENT OPEN  recreational, or institutional purposes, or such land which is recommended for
SPACE:          such designation by the Village at or before the time of approval of a
                subdivision or planned development.
PERMITTEE:      Any person to whom a permit is issued.
                Any person, firm, or corporation, public or private, the State of Illinois and
PERSON:         its agencies or political subdivisions, and the United States of America, its
                agencies and instrumentalities, and any agent servant officer, employee of any of
                the foregoing.
PORCH:          A roofed-over structure projecting out from the wall or walls of a main structure
                and commonly open to the weather in part.
PRINCIPAL       A structure in which a principal use of the lot on which the structure is located
STRUCTURE:      is conducted.
PRINCIPAL USE:  The main use of land or structures as distinguished from a subordinate or
                accessory use.
PUBLIC OPEN     A publicly-owned area including, but not limited to, the following: parks,
SPACE:          playgrounds, forest preserves, waterways, parkways, and streets.
                Any person, firm, or corporation duly authorized to furnish, under regulation, to
PUBLIC UTILITY: the public, cable television, electricity, gas, steam, telephone, telegraph,
                transportation, water, or sewerage systems.
PUBLIC WAY:     Any sidewalk, street, alley, highway, or other public thoroughfare.
                Recreational vehicle" or "RV" means a vehicular-type unit primarily designed as
                temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use that
                either has its own motive power or is mounted on, or towed by, another vehicle.
                The basic types of RV entities are: camping trailer, fifth wheel trailer, motor
                home, park trailer, travel trailer, truck camper, and tiny house trailer which
                are individually defined as follows:
                1. “Camping trailer" is a vehicular portable unit mounted on wheels and
                constructed with collapsible partial side walls that fold for towing by another
                vehicle and unfold at the campsite to provide temporary living quarters for
                recreational, camping or travel use.
                2. “Fifth wheel trailer" is a vehicular unit, mounted on wheels, designed to
                provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, of
                such size or weight as not to require special highway movement permit(s), of
                gross trailer area not to exceed four hundred (400) square feet (37.2m2) in the
                set-up mode, designed to be towed by a motorized vehicle that contains a towing
                mechanism that is mounted above or forward of the tow vehicle's rear axle.
                3. “Motor home" is a vehicular unit designed to provide temporary living quarters
                for recreational, camping or travel use, built on or permanently attached to a
RECREATIONAL    self-propelled motor vehicle chassis or on a chassis cab or van that is an
VEHICLE:        integral part of the completed vehicle.
                4. “Park trailer" is a recreational vehicle that meets the following criteria:
                a. Built on a single chassis mounted on wheels;
                b. Having a gross trailer area not exceeding four hundred (400) square feet in
                the set-up mode;
                c. Certified by the manufacturer as complying with Recreational Vehicle Industry
                Association, ANSI (American National Standards Institute) A119.5 standards.
                5. “Travel trailer" is a vehicular unit, mounted on wheels, designed to provide
                temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, of such size
                or weight as not to require special highway movement permits when towed by a
                motorized vehicle, and of gross trailer area less than three hundred twenty (320)
                square feet (29.7m2).
                6. “Truck camper" is a portable unit constructed to provide temporary living
                quarters for recreational, travel or camping use, consisting of a roof, floor and
                sides, designed to be loaded onto and unloaded from the bed of a pickup truck.
                7. “Tiny house trailer" is a portable housing unit built on or permanently
                attached to a single chassis mounted on wheels or on a trailer and constructed to
                provide temporary living quarters for recreational, travel or seasonal use,
                consisting of a roof, floor and sides.
                Any change in a structure, including a structural alteration (other than
                incidental repairs and normal maintenance) which may prolong its useful life, or
REMODELING:     the useful life of its supporting members such as bearing walls or partitions,
                columns, beams, girders or foundations; or the construction of any addition to,
                or enlargement of, a structure; or the removal of a structure.
                A business where the dispensing of edible food-stuffs and/or beverages on the
RESTAURANT:     premises is the principal business operation, including a cafeteria, coffee shop,
                lunchroom, and dining room.
RETAIL SALES:   The sale of goods, merchandise and commodities for use or consumption.
RIGHT OF WAY,   A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities.
RAILROAD:
ROADSIDE STAND: A structure for the display and sale of agricultural products grown on the
                premises or in the area.
                A public or private institution which offers instruction in any of the branches
SCHOOL:         of learning and study comparable to that taught in the public schools under the
                Illinois school laws, including pre-kindergarten, elementary school, and junior
                and senior high schools, but excluding trade, business, or commercial schools.
SHOPPING        A group of commercial establishments located under one roof, not having interior
CENTER:         access to each individual establishment.
                Any writing (including letters, words, or numerals), pictorial representation
                (including devices, symbols, or trademarks), flag, banner, streamer, pennant,
                string of lights, or display calculated to attract the attention of the public,
SIGN:           or any other figure of similar character which:
                a. Is a structure or any part thereof, or a portable display, or is attached to,
                painted on or in any other manner represented on a building or other structure or
                on the ground.
                b. Is used to announce, direct attention to or advertise.
SIGN,           A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity, service, or
ADVERTISING     entertainment conducted, sold, or offered elsewhere than upon the premises where
(BILLBOARD):    such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
                Any illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not maintained stationary
SIGN, FLASHING: and/or constant in intensity and color at all times when such sign is in use. For
                the purpose of the Title, any revolving, illuminated sign shall be considered a
                "flashing sign."
                The entire area within a single continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme limits
SIGN, GROSS     of a sign and in no case passing through or between any adjacent elements of the
SURFACE AREA    same. However, such perimeter shall not include any structural or framing
OF:             elements lying outside the limits of such sign with two (2) visible surfaces, the
                gross surface area shall be the sum of all sides of the sign.
SIGN, GROUND:   A sign which is supported by one or more uprights or braces in or upon the
                ground.
SIGN            A sign indicating the name and address of a building, or the name of an occupant
IDENTIFICATION: thereof, and the practice of a permitted occupation therein.
SIGN LOCATION:  The sign location is determined by measuring from the furthermost projecting
                point of the sign to the front lot line.
SIGN,           A sign which is suspended from or affixed to any building wall or other structure
PROJECTING:     and extends beyond the building wall or parts thereof or structure more than
                eighteen inches (18").
SIGN, ROOF:     A sign erected, constructed, and maintained above the roof of any building.
SIGN, TEMPORARY An advertising device of a nonpermanent type, used principally for commercial
MOBILE:         purposes.
SIGN, WALL:     A sign affixed, painted, posted, or placed on a building or structure.
SMOKE:          Small gas-borne particles other than water that form a visible plume in the air.
                A specific use of land or buildings, or both, described and permitted herein,
SPECIAL USE:    subject to special provisions and which, because of its unique characteristics,
                cannot be properly classified as a permitted use.
STABLE,         A structure which is located on a lot on which a dwelling is located, and which
PRIVATE:        is designed, arranged, used, or intended to be used for housing horses for the
                private use of occupants of the dwelling, but in no event for hire.
STABLE, PUBLIC: A building where horses are kept for remuneration, hire, or sale.
STORAGE,        The outdoor accumulation of vehicles, equipment, or products or materials for
OUTDOOR:        permanent or temporary holding.
                That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the
                surface of the floor next above it or if there be no floor above it, then the
STORY:          space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. Any portion of a story
                exceeding fourteen (14) feet in height shall be considered as an additional story
                for each fourteen (14) feet or fraction thereof.
STREET          All of the property fronting on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting
FRONTAGE:       streets, or in the cases of a dead-end street, all of the property along one side
                of a street between an intersecting street and the end of such dead-end streets.
                Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent location on
STRUCTURE:      the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on the ground.
                With reference to the foregoing, a structure shall include buildings, fences,
                walls and signs.
                Any structure, basin, chamber or tank containing an artificial body of water for
SWIMMING POOL:  swimming and wading, which uses or needs external buttresses or which is dug into
                the ground and having a depth of two (2) feet or more at any point.
SWIMMING POOL,  Any swimming pool, located on private residential property, the use of which is
PRIVATE:        intended for the owner and guests.
                A vehicle without motor power used or adaptable for living, sleeping, business,
                or storage purposes, having no foundation other than wheels, blocks, skids,
TRAILER:        jacks, horses, or skirting, and has been recently or may be equipped with wheels
                or other devices for transporting the structure from place to place. A permanent
                foundation shall not change its character unless the entire structure is erected
                in accordance with the Village Building Code.
TRAILER,        A vehicle standing on wheels or on rigid supports which is used for transporting
TRANSPORT:      boats, cargo, or property.
USE:            The purposes for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged, or
                intended, or for which it is occupied, maintained, let, or leased.
                A use which may be lawfully established in a particular district or districts,
USE, PERMITTED: provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations, and performance
                standards (if any) of such districts.
                The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a subordinate or
USE, PRINCIPAL: accessory use. A "principal use" may be either a "permitted use" or a "special
                use."
WHOLESALE       Sale to retailers for resale and not for direct consumption.
SALES:
YARD:           Open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level to
                the sky, except for the permitted obstructions listed in this Title.
                A space extending the full width of the lot between any building and the front
YARD, FRONT:    lot line and measured perpendicular to the building at the closest point to the
                front lot line. On a corner lot, each yard that abuts a street right-of-way shall
                be considered a front yard.
                A space extending across the full width of the lot between the principal building
YARD, REAR:     and the rear lot line and measured perpendicular to the building to the closest
                point of the rear lot line.
                A space extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the principal
YARD, SIDE:     building and the side lot line and measured perpendicular from the side lot line
                to the closest point of the principal building.
YARD,           The required front, side, or rear yard, between a business or manufacturing
TRANSITIONAL:   district and a residential district.
ZONING MAP:     The map or maps incorporated into this Title as a part hereof, designating zoning
                districts.
ZONING          The individual appointed by the President, by and with the consent of the Village
OFFICIAL:       Board, to administer and enforce the Zoning Ordinance of the Village.
 
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Lots
10-3-2: Open Space On Lots
10-3-3: Accessory Buildings
10-3-4: Exemptions
10-3-5: Water Supply And Sewage Disposal
10-3-6: Screening
10-3-7: Home Occupations
10-3-8: Miscellaneous Provisions
10-3-9: Manufactured Home Park Regulations
10-3-1: LOTS:
   A.   Number Of Buildings On A Lot: Not more than one (1) principal building
may be located on a single lot of record or a single lot unless otherwise
authorized within each zoning district.
   B.   Division Of Lots: No lot shall hereafter be divided into two (2) or
more lots for the purpose of transfer of ownership, unless the division shall
conform with all the applicable regulations of the Village Subdivision
Regulations and this Title, except as permitted under the State Plat Act.
   C.   Through Lots: On vacant through lots, the front lot lines shall be
along the street right-of-way designated by the Zoning Official, except that
when a front lot line has been established on one (1) or more lots in the same
block and all have front lot lines established along the same street right-of-
way line, the street right-of-way line designated as the front lot line for
such lot or lots shall be the front line on all vacant through lots for such
block. Only such obstructions as herein permitted in front yards shall be
located in that part of a rear yard adjoining a street that is equivalent in
depth to a required front yard.
   D.   Comer Lots: On a comer lot, the front lot line shall be the lot line
having the shortest dimension along the street right-of-way line. The required
front yard setback on corner lots shall apply to each side of the lot facing a
street.
   E.   Two Uses On A Lot: Where two (2) or more permitted or special uses,
each requiring a minimum area and frontage, are provided in the same building
or on the same lot, the required area and frontages shall be the sum of the
areas and frontage required for each use individually.
   F.   Street Frontage And Access: Every lot must have frontage on a public
street and must be provided with facilities for ingress and/or egress to and
from such public street conforming to such standards as to design and location
as meet the requirements set forth by the Village and are approved by the road
authority onto whose road or street such ingress and/or egress is to be made.
10-3-2: OPEN SPACE ON LOTS:
The following general provisions dealing with open space, lot coverage, yards,
setbacks, vision clearance, and permitted obstructions are provided for
herewith:
   A.   Provisions Of Open Space: The provisions of yards, courts, and other
open spaces and minimum lot area legally required for a building shall be a
continuing obligation of the owner of such building or property on which it is
located, as long as the building is in existence. Furthermore, no legally
required yards, courts, or other open space, or minimum lot area allocated to
any building, shall by virtue of change of ownership, or for any other reason,
be used to satisfy yard, court, or other open space or minimum lot area
requirements for any other building.
   B.   Location Of Open Space: All yards, courts, and other open space
allocated to a building or group of buildings shall be located on the same
zoning lots as such building or group of buildings.
   C.   Yards For Existing Buildings: No yard now or hereafter provided for a
building existing on the effective date of the Zoning Ordinance shall
subsequently be reduced below, or further reduced if already less than, the
minimum yard requirement of the Title for equivalent new construction. However,
a yard adjoining a street may be reduced to provide right-of-way for a street
widening.
   D.   Required Setbacks: Notwithstanding any other provision of this Title,
no building or structure shall be erected, constructed, structurally altered,
or enlarged within thirty (30) feet of a planned public right-of-way.
   E.   Exception For Established Setbacks:
      1.   Where fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage of one (1) side of
a street between two (2) intersecting streets is developed with buildings that
have observed (within a variance of ten (10) feet or less) a front yard greater
in depth than required herein, new buildings shall not be erected closer to the
street than the average front yard so established by the existing buildings.
      2.   Where fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage on one (1) side of
a street between two (2) intersecting streets is developed with buildings that
have not observed a front yard as herein required, then:
         a.   Interior Lots:
            (1)   Where a building is to be erected within one hundred (100)
feet of existing buildings on both sides, the minimum front yard shall be a
line drawn between the closest front corners of the two (2) existing buildings.
            (2)   Where a building is to be erected within one hundred (100)
feet of an existing building on one (1) side only, it may be erected as close
to the street as the existing building.
         b.   Corner Lots: The depth of the setback lines shall be as normally
required in the district where the lot is located.
   F.   Vision Clearance: At the intersection of roads or at the point of
ingress and egress onto roads, no structure, parked vehicle, or plant material
shall obstruct a clear path of motor vehicle driver's vision of approaching
vehicles within a triangular square determined by a diagonal line connecting
two (2) points measured seventy-five (75) feet equidistant from the point of
intersection with the centerlines of the roads and the points of ingress and
egress. See Appendix A attached to the Zoning Ordinance for a sample
illustration.
   G.   Permitted Obstructions In Required Yards: The following shall not be
considered to be obstructions when located in the required yards specified:
      1.   In All Yards:
         a.   Open terraces not over three (3) feet above the average level of
the adjoining ground, but not including permanently roofed-over terrace or
porch;
         b.   Awnings and canopies, but not projecting more than ten (10) feet
out, and at least seven (7) feet above the average level of the adjoining
ground;
         c.   Steps, four (4) feet or less above grade which are necessary for
access to a permitted building or for access to a zoning lot from a street or
alley;
         d.   Chimneys projecting eighteen (18) inches or less into the yard;
         e.   Arbors, trellises, flag poles, fountains, sculptures, plant
boxes, and other similar ornamental objects;
         f.   All fences and walls in the side and rear yards only: and
         g.   Overhanging eaves and gutters projecting three (3) feet or less
into the yard.
      2.   Swimming pools, ten (10) feet from property lines, buildings and/or
structures in side and rear yards only.
      3.   In Front Yards: One-story bay windows projecting three (3) feet or
less into the yard.
      4.   In Rear Yards: Enclosed, attached, or detached off-street parking
spaces, accessory shed, tool rooms, and similar buildings or structures for
domestic or agricultural storage, balconies, breezeways, and open porches, one-
story bay windows projecting three (3) feet or less into the yard. In a
residential district, no accessory building shall be nearer than five (5) feet
to the rear lot line, nor nearer than ten (10) feet to any principal building
unattached.
      5.   Open off-street parking may be permitted in side yards.
   H.   Fences And Walls:
      1.   No fence shall be erected or substantially altered in the Village
without a building permit issued therefore by the Village Building Inspector,
after he has collected the permit fee required.
Any fence which shall be erected or shall be in the process of erection, or
maintained contrary to the provisions of the Title, is deemed a nuisance, and
it shall be the duty of the Building Official and/or Zoning Official to abate
the same.
      2.   The following fences are authorized:
         a.   Hazard Enclosures: This fence is intended to enclose swimming
pools, pets, excavations, etc. This fence must be a minimum of forty eight (48)
inches high with the mesh material spaced close enough to prevent children and
animals from entering. All gates shall be equipped with child-proof latches.
         b.   Security Or Protection Fence (Commercial Or Industrial): A fence
used for enclosing the lot, or part of the lot, for security and protection of
property.
         c.   Retention Fence (Residential): A fence to retain children,
animals, etc. or to prevent outside intrusion. This fence may be installed in
side and rear yards only, with a minimum fence height of forty-eight (48)
inches and a maximum height of seventy two (72) inches. All structural members
of a fence must face the owner of the fence.
      3.   No private fences shall be allowed or constructed on public streets,
highways, or alley rights-of-way. Fences may, by permit, be placed on public
utility easements as long as the structures do not interfere in any way with
existing underground, ground, or over ground utilities. Further, the Village or
any utility company having authority to use such easements shall not be liable
for repair or replacement of such fences in the event they are moved, damaged,
or destroyed by virtue of the lawful use of said easement. Fences in violation
of this subsection may be summarily removed by the Village.
      4.   No barbed or barbed wire shall be allowed on private property in
residential zones or on lots in any zone being used for single-, two-, or
multi-family dwelling purposes. No barbed wire or barbed wire fences shall be
allowed on private property in business or industrial zones where the property
lines of such property abut lots or parcels zoned or being used for single-,
two- or multiple- family purposes or on fences in front yards.
   No fences shall be constructed of material obviously intended to inflict
great bodily harm should a person or animal attempt to climb or scale it. Such
material includes, but is not limited to, electrically charged wires or other
electrical conduit, broken glass, razor blades, and sharp or ragged metal
spikes or spears. Barbed wire may be used only as authorized.
      5.   All fences shall be constructed in conformity with the wind, stress,
foundation, structural, and other requirements of the building codes and
ordinances of the Village.
   All fences shall be maintained in good, structurally sound repair and in a
neat, clean, presentable, and attractive condition. If, on inspection by the
Building Inspector or Zoning Official, any fence, in his determination, does
not meet the requirements of this subsection, he shall order the owner or
occupier of the premises, by registered or certified mail, to make the
necessary repairs or improvements within thirty (30) days. Should the owner or
occupier of the premises fail to make repairs or improvements as directed, he
shall be in violation of the Title, and the Building Inspector or Zoning
Official shall cause a complaint to be issued and processed against said owner
or occupier in accordance with the rules of the Circuit Court of Kankakee
County, Illinois.
      6.   In commercial and industrial zones, fences may not exceed six (6)
feet in height in commercial areas and eight (8) feet in industrial areas above
ground level, and the use of barbed wire is prohibited, except that the top one
(1) foot of any fence along a side or rear lot lines in the industrial zone may
be constructed of barbed wire. Barbed wire shall not be used, installed, or
constructed on fences fronting any street. However, the Village, public
utilities, school district, other governmental agencies, or owners of property
on which hazardous operations exist, after first obtaining permission of the
Village Board, may erect barbed wire along fences fronting on public streets or
abutting residential property which otherwise conforms to this Section.
      7.   In commercial and industrial zoned districts, no fence or walls
shall be erected, constructed, or maintained within the first fifty (50) feet
from the front lot line.
However, a four (4) foot decorative fence may be erected within the first fifty
(50) feet. For purposes of security only, fences for commercial or industrial
zoned districts may be provided alongside and rear yard lot lines.
      8.   Fences existing at the time of adoption of this subsection H which
are not in violation of subparagraph H5 above, and are not located on public
streets, highways, and alley rights-of-way, but which violate other sections of
the Title, may continue to be maintained and to exist but may not be replaced,
if destroyed or removed, to the extent that the violation would be continued.
   I.   Hedges:
      1.   Hedges, plantings, shrubbery, etc., when used as a screen or fence
in the front yard in all zoning districts, shall be maintained and trimmed at a
maximum of two (2) feet above ground level.
      2.   When fences are allowed on commercial or industrial zoned
properties, and these properties abut residential districts, a six (6) foot
high landscape screening or hedge is required on all lot lines, except those
that form the front yards.
      3.   In all districts or special uses allowing outdoor storage, a six (6)
foot high hedge or screening shall be planted to enclose all areas which are
visually exposed to the front yard.
10-3-3: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Policy: Accessory buildings and uses are allowed in the various
districts as prescribed in each district and shall be compatible with the
principal use. Accessory buildings shall be constructed on a slab or other
approved impervious surface.
   B.   Location: Each accessory building or portion thereof, shall be located
to the rear of the rear line of the principal building, and no closer to the
side or rear lot lines than the distance equal to the side yard requirement of
the district to which it is accessory.
   C.   Time Of Construction: No accessory building or structure shall be
constructed prior to the start of construction of the principal building to
which it is accessory.
   D.   Reverse Comer Lots: On a reverse comer lot in a residential district,
which is a lot of record prior to the adoption of this Title, no accessory
building or portion thereof located in a required rear yard shall be closer to
the side lot line abutting the street than the required front yard on the
adjacent lot to the rear. Further, in the above instance, no such accessory
building shall be located within five (5) feet of any part of a rear lot line
which coincides with a side lot line or portion thereof in a residential
district.
   E.   Swimming:
      1.   Hard Sided Pools, forty-eight (48) inches in height and over: All
owners of private swimming pools which are permanently affixed or built on the
real estate and are forty-eight (48) inches and over in height with hard
sidewalls must have either: (1) a fence around the entire top of the pool,
which fence must be affixed to the pool, and shall also have a removable
ladder, which ladder must be removed when such pools are not in use, or; (2) a
fully enclosed fence with a minimum height of forty-eight (48) inches and a
maximum height of seventy-two (72) inches around the yard in which the pool is
located.
      2.   Soft-sided Temporary Pools, under forty-eight (48) inches in height:
All owners of private swimming pools which are under forty-eight (48) inches in
height and have soft sidewalls, are not required to have any fence around the
pool or around the yard in which the pool is located, but any ladder used with
such pool must be removed once such pools are not in use.
      3.   In-ground Pools:
         a.   All owners of private in-ground pools are required to have a
fully enclosed fence with a minimum height of 48 inches and a maximum height of
seventy-two (72) inches around the yard in which the pool is located.
         b.   Gates shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching
devices designed to keep, and capable of keeping, such gate securely closed at
all times when not in actual use.
         c.   All electrical devices used in conjunction with or connected to
all pools must be grounded and protected by approved ground fault interrupt
circuits.
   F.   1.   A detached accessory building or portion of the principal building
designed, arranged, used or intended to be used for storage of automobiles of
the occupants of the premises shall not exceed nine hundred forty-nine (949)
square feet in area. Further, the total area of all structures attached to or
detached from any one principal building that are designed, arranged, used or
intended to be used for the storage of automobiles of the occupants of the
premises shall not exceed nine hundred forty-nine (949) square feet in area. In
no case shall the area for storage of automobiles be located in more than one
location of each dwelling unit, except as permitted as a special use under this
Title. The building or structure shall have a continuous foundation and shall
be constructed of wood, aluminum, vinyl or brick siding. No metal sided or
pole-type structures shall be permitted in any Residential District. The height
of said structure shall not exceed twenty-five (25) feet.
      2.   Accessory sheds and tool rooms of similar buildings or structures
used for domestic storage shall not exceed one hundred sixty eight (168) square
feet in area nor any side be greater than fourteen (14) feet in length. The
height of said structure shall be no greater than twelve (12) feet or the
height of the residence on the lot, whichever is lower. The width of the door
shall not be greater than eight (8) feet.
   G.   Special Use -- Pool House: Minimum requirements: An accessory building,
adjacent to an in-ground swimming pool, or hard-sided pool. It shall be built
to match the principal structure's style, color scheme, and of similar
materials, with a maximum height of fifteen (15) feet. The pool house shall
include electrical service, and is to include an operational toilet, shower,
and a sink. Each side shall include a window or a door. Maximum width of the
doors shall be no greater than six (six) feet. Standard setbacks apply.
   H.   Non-commercial Greenhouses: A temporary or permanent accessory
structure used exclusively for the production and storage of live plants. There
is to be no storage of non-plant productions materials, temporary or otherwise.
      1.   Permanent Greenhouses:
         a.   Shall be anchored to a slab or foundation;
         b.   Shall be made of glass, acrylic glass or other rigid materials;
         c.   Shall be no greater than one hundred (100) square feet, and of a
height not to exceed ten (10) feet;
         d.   Shall be located to the rear of rear yards; and
         e.   Standard setbacks apply.
      2.   Prefabricated Greenhouse:
         a.   Must include a permanent anchoring device, that is not readily
dislodged, and for which is intended to secure a structure for an indefinite
period, e.g. concrete;
         b.   Shall be constructed of rigid materials, or acrylic glass;
         c.   Shall not exceed ninety six (96) square feet, and a height not to
exceed ten (10) feet;
         d.   Shall be located to the rear of rear yards; and
         e.   Standard setbacks apply.
      3.   Number Of Accessory Structures Per Principal Building: No more than
one (1) detached accessory structure designed, arranged, used or intended to be
used for the storage of automobiles of the occupants of the premises and one
(1) detached accessory shed, tool room or similar building or structure used
for domestic storage may be permitted for each principal structure, unless
authorized as a special use as provided in Chapter 12 of this Title.
10-3-4: EXEMPTIONS:
Existing Agricultural Exemptions: The provisions of this Title shall not be
exercised so as to impose regulations or require permits with respect to land
used or to be used for existing agricultural purposes or with respect to the
erections, maintenance, repair, alterations, remodeling or extension of
buildings or structures used or to be used for [missing text]. Existing
agricultural purposes shall conform to building or setback lines, and shall be
subject to the building permit requirements of 10-1-6G of this Title. Also, in
the interest of public health, a residence and its water supply and sewage
disposal facilities in connection with an agricultural use, shall not be
exempt. In the event that the land ceases to be used solely for agricultural
purposes, then and only then shall the provisions of the Title apply.
   A.   Public Utility Exemption: As required by statute, the type or location
of any poles, towers, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, or any other
similar distribution equipment of a public utility is exempt from the
requirements of this Title.
   B.   Underground Installations Exemption: Pipelines and other underground
installations, to the extent that the same are completely buried beneath the
surface of the soil, are exempt from the requirements of the Title; provided,
that any incidental or associated structures, installations, or equipment,
except markers, used in connection with such pipe lines or other underground
installations, and which protrude or are extended above the surface of the
soil, shall, to the extent of such protrusion or extension, be subject to all
of the applicable provisions hereof.
10-3-5: WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
Every residence, business, trade, or industry hereafter established shall
provide such facilities conforming to standards of design and location approved
by the Kankakee County Health Department and any new water supply and sewage
disposal facilities hereafter provided for existing uses shall conform to such
standards.
10-3-6: SCREENING:
When required by this Title, screening shall be designed, planted, or
constructed and maintained in such a way as to comply with the intent of the
several zoning districts as well as being developed in terms of the following
general guidelines:
   A.   Type: The use of natural vegetation and grasses earth berms should be
used whenever possible.
      1.   No screening should interfere with sight requirements for safe
ingress and egress.
      2.   Earthen berms shall have a side slope not less than four (4) feet
horizontal to one (1) foot vertical.
   B.   Height:
      1.   Screening should be of sufficient height to adequately screen areas
from adjacent property lines, but may not be higher than six (6) feet without a
variance, excluding natural vegetation growth.
      2.   Maximum Height: No fence or wall for screening shall be erected,
placed, or maintained along a lot line of any nonresidential zoned property,
adjacent to residential zoned property to a height exceeding six (6) feet.
      3.   Screening between rear and side lot lines of commercial, industrial,
or other uses and residential properties shall be a minimum of six (6) feet
high. Proper screening materials shall be approved by the Zoning Official.
10-3-7: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Definition: A home occupation is a business, profession, occupation or
trade conducted for gain entirely within a residential building or within a
structure that is accessory to a residential building.
   B.   Permitted: Any home occupation that is customarily incidental to the
principal use of a building as a dwelling shall be permitted in any dwelling
unit.
   C.   In addition to all of the use limitations applicable in the district in
which a home occupation is located, no home occupation shall be permitted
unless it complies with the following restrictions in all residential
districts:
      1.   No person who is not a member of the immediate family occupying such
dwelling unit shall be employed in connection with the occupation.
      2.   There shall be no manufacturing or processing of any sort.
      3.   No sign shall advertise the presence or conduct of a home
occupation.
      4.   No wholesale, jobbing or retail business shall be permitted unless
it is conducted entirely by mail or telephone and does not involve the receipt,
sale, shipment, delivery, or storage of merchandise on or from the premises,
provided, however, that articles produced by members of the immediate family
residing on the premises may be sold from and stored upon the premises.
      5.   There shall be no alteration of the principal residential building
which changes the character thereof as a dwelling.
      6.   No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the area of one (1) story
of a single-family dwelling not more than twenty percent (20%) of the area of
any other dwelling unit, shall be devoted to the home occupation.
      7.   No mechanical or electrical equipment may be used except such types
as are customary for purely domestic, household or hobby purposes.
      8.   There shall be no storage outside a principal building or accessory
structure of equipment or materials used in the home occupation.
      9.   The home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the principal
residential building or in a private garage accessory thereto.
   D.   Particular Home Occupations Permitted: Customary home occupations
include, but are not limited to, the following list of occupations, provided,
however, that each listed occupation shall be subject to the requirements of
this Section.
      1.   Dressmakers, seamstresses, and tailors.
      2.   Music teachers, but regular instruction shall be limited to one
pupil at a time, except for occasional groups.
      3.   Artists, sculptors, and authors or composers.
      4.   Office facilities for architects, engineers, lawyers, insurance
agents and members of similar professions.
      5.   Offices of duly ordained leaders of a religious or spiritual
community.
      6.   Office facilities for real estate and other salesmen, sales
representatives and manufacturers representatives, when no retail or wholesale
transactions are conducted on the premises.
      7.   Homecrafts, such as model-making, rug-weaving, lapidary work, and
craft woodworking, provided, however, that no machinery or equipment shall be
used or employed, other than that which would customarily be incidental to
residential occupancy. Such machinery or equipment shall include that which
would customarily be employed in connection with a hobby or a vocation not
conducted for gain or profit.
   E.   Particular Home Occupations Prohibited: The following uses are
prohibited in residential zones:
      1.   Barber shops and beauty shops.
      2.   Dancing schools.
      3.   Funeral homes.
      4.   Nursery schools and day care centers, unless specifically permitted
by the district regulations as a special use.
      5.   Restaurants.
      6.   Stables.
      7.   Tourist homes and lodging houses, unless specifically permitted by
the district regulations.
      8.   Renting of trailers.
      9.   Medical or dental offices, clinics or hospitals.
      10.   Animal kennels or hospitals.
10-3-8: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Kennel Restrictions: No person shall keep more than four (4) adult dogs
or cats, or combination thereof, unless they are kept on a property
specifically zoned to allow a veterinary clinic, animal hospital, or kennel.
For purposes of this Title, when an animal reaches six (6) months, it shall be
considered an adult animal.
10-3-9: MANUFACTURED HOME PARK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Districts: Manufactured home parks shall be allowed as a
special use in the R1-Single Family Residential District and only if
specifically authorized by the Village Board as allowed in Chapter 12 of this
Title.
   B.   Permitted Uses:
      1.   Manufactured homes, factory-built homes or any other similar homes
including movable or portable dwellings constructed for towing on its own
chassis and connection to utilities without use of a permanent foundation for
purposes of single family permanent habitation.
      2.   Club houses/management office.
      3.   Recreation facilities, for use exclusively by the residents of the
development.
   C.   Permitted Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory uses
provided they are constructed on a concrete pad and separated from the home by
a minimum distance of ten (10) feet.
      1.   One private garage or carport per site not to exceed nine hundred
forty (940) square feet.
      2.   Storage shed not to exceed one hundred sixty-eight (168) square
feet. No side dimension shall be greater than fourteen (14) feet.
   D.   Lot Size Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Lot Area: 7,200 square feet.
      2.   Minimum Lot Width: 60 feet.
      3.   Minimum Lot Area for Corner Lots: 9,000 square feet.
      4.   Minimum Corner Lot Width: 75 feet.
      5.   Minimum Manufactured Home Size: 924 square feet.
   E.   Yard Setback Requirements:
      1.   Front Setback: 25 feet.
      2.   Side Yard Setbacks: 10 feet.
      3.   Rear Yard Setback: 20 feet.
      4.   Corner Lot Setback: 25 feet.
      5.   Maximum Structure Height: 12 feet.
      6.   Maximum Lot Coverage: 30%.
   F.   Development Standards:
      1.   All utilities, including but not limited to: water, sewer, electric,
gas, telephone, and cable television must be located in underground
unobstructable locations including individual connections to each dwelling unit
pad. Each dwelling unit shall be individually metered for utility service.
      2.   Development of the site shall be based on the site analysis to
determine: geology and soil, existing vegetation, structures, and road
networks, visual features and present and proposed use of a site.
      3.   The development shall be laid out to avoid adversely affecting
ground water and aquifer recharge, to reduce cut and fill; to avoid unnecessary
impervious cover; to prevent flooding, to provide adequate access to lots and
sites; and to mitigate adverse effects of shadow, noise, odor, traffic,
drainage, and utilities on neighboring properties. An underground storm sewer
system shall be provided, in accordance with Village standards, to serve any
manufactured home subdivision.
      4.   All developments shall be required to provide at least twenty-five
percent (25%) of the buildable land area as open space. Developed open space
shall be designed to provide active recreational facilities to serve the
residents of the area. Undeveloped open space shall be designed to preserve
important site amenities or environmentally sensitive areas.
      5.   Landscaping shall be provided as part of the site plan and
subdivision design. It shall be provided comprehensively throughout the site;
integrating the various elements of site design, preserving and enhancing the
particular identity of the site, and creating a pleasing site character.
Landscaping shall include plant materials such as trees, shrubs, ground covers,
perennials, and annuals, and other materials such as rocks, water, sculpture,
art, walls, fences and paving materials.
      6.   A landscape plan prepared by a qualified expert shall be submitted
with each subdivision development request. The plan shall identify existing and
proposed trees, shrubs, and ground covers; natural features such as rock
outcroppings; and other landscaping elements. The plan shall show where they
are or will be located and planting and/or construction details. Special
attention shall be paid so as to substantially screen the development from all
adjoining zoning districts and land uses as outlined in Section 
10-3-6 of this Title.
      7.   Lot layout shall provide for clustering or various angle
arrangements of the lots, as opposed to a grid pattern.
   G.   Manufactured Home Stand:
      1.   Placements: The manufactured home stand shall be so placed as to
provide for the practical placement on the site of both the manufactured home
and its appurtenant structures and the retention of the manufactured home on
the site in a stable condition and in satisfactory relationship to its
surroundings.
      2.   Location: The location of each manufactured home stand shall be at
such elevation, distance, and angle in relation to the access street and the
manufactured home lot driveway that placement and removal of the manufactured
home is practical.
      3.   Construction: Concrete slab or concrete runways.
      4.   Gradient: There shall be a minimum of two percent (2%) longitudinal
and adequate crown or cross-gradient and surface drainage.
      5.   Undercarriage: Each manufactured home unit shall be skirted via a
structural treatment similar to that of the home unit or a landscaping
treatment conforming to the subdivision landscaping plan in such a manner so as
not to permit the undercarriage of the unit to be visible. Each unit shall have
its wheels removed and appropriate means of anchoring the units shall be
provided so as to reduce the potential for damage during periods of high winds.
      6.   Additions To Manufactured Homes: No permanent or semi-permanent
structure shall be affixed to a manufactured home. This does not apply to
awnings or any expansion unit specifically manufactured for manufactured homes.
The maximum lot coverage of the manufactured home shall not exceed thirty
percent (30%) of the total lot area.
   H.   Electric Lighting And Outlets: All street entrances, exits, and
driveways shall be lighted at night. All required lighting shall follow Village
lighting standards.
   I.   Patios:
      1.   Size: The minimum size of each manufactured home patio shall be two
hundred twenty-five (225) square feet.
      2.   Location: Every patio shall be conveniently located near the
entrance of the manufactured home, open space areas of the site and other
facilities, fitted to terrain and natural features, and related to anticipated
manufactured home models.
      3.   Elevation: Where practical, the elevation of the patio shall equal
the elevation of the manufactured home stand. Where conditions permit, the
patio and adjoining yard area may be as much as two (2) feet higher than the
manufactured home stand in order that the level of the patio and outdoor living
area will be close to the floor of an in-place manufactured home.
      4.   Construction: Any sub-grading shall be well drained, uniformly
graded and compacted. Construction shall be an impervious surface.
   J.   Storage:
      1.   Storage facilities shall be provided for the active storage of
outdoor equipment, furniture or tools, and for the inactive storage for such
materials which are used only seasonally or infrequently, and cannot be stored
in the manufactured home.
      2.   Storage facilities shall be designed to enhance the appearance of
the park, constructed out of materials similar to the manufactured home,
coordinated with appropriate landscaping plan, provide for hazardous weather
protection, and must be maintained in coordination with other features of the
manufactured home.
   K.   Fencing: All fencing shall comply with regulations set forth in Chapter
3 of this Title.
   L.   Garbage And Waste:
      1.   A sufficient number of adequate fly-proof and water tight containers
shall be supplied for the storage of garbage.
      2.   Garbage and waste areas shall be fenced in and completely screened
from public rights-of-way.
   M.   Park Attendant:
      1.   Each development shall be in charge of a responsible attendant or
manager at all times. Duties of the attendant or manager will include the
maintenance of the park, its facilities and equipment, in a clean, orderly and
sanitary condition, and be answerable for any violation of the provisions of
this chapter.
   N.   Streets And Sidewalks:
      1.   The road system shall be designed to permit the safe, efficient, and
orderly movement of traffic; to meet, but not exceed the needs of the present
and future population served; to have a simple and logical pattern; to respect
natural features and topography; to meet the needs of snow plows, fire trucks,
school buses (if necessary), ambulances, and other emergency vehicles; and to
present an attractive streetscape. The road system shall be designed to serve
the needs of the development and to discourage use by through traffic.
      2.   All lots shall front on residential access or sub-collector streets;
not on collector streets. The right-of-way of residential streets shall be in
accordance with the subdivision regulations and recommend by the Village
Engineer. All streets shall have curbs, gutters, street lights, street trees,
storm sewers, and sidewalks accompanying same in accordance with Village's
design standards.
      3.   Streets may be either public or private. The responsibility of said
roads and their maintenance shall be agreed upon by the developer and the
Village Board during the special use process.
      4.   All residential parking will be off-street. No on-street parking is
allowed.
      5.   Off-street parking shall be provided in front and side yards only.
Two (2) off-street parking spaces shall be provided per dwelling unit. The off-
street parking surface shall be covered with a concrete surface. Each space
shall not be less than ten (10) feet wide and twenty feet (20) feet deep.
Enclosed garage space shall not count toward the required off-street parking
requirements.
      6.   All sidewalks and driveways shall be concrete and meet Village
standards.
   O.   Manufactured Home Sales:
      1.   Manufactured home sales are permitted on a limited basis. One home
may be used for a model, and one model is allowed for each park. This model
must follow all structural and aesthetic guidelines as outlined for a
manufactured residence.
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-4-1: Districts Established
10-4-2: Zoning Map
10-4-3: Entire Area Zoned
10-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The Village of Herscher, for the purpose of this Title, is hereby divided into
the following zoning districts:
   E-1   Estate Residential District.
   R-1   Single-Family Residential District.
   R-2   Two-Family Attached Residential District.
   R-3   Multi-Family Residential District.
   C-1   Downtown Commercial District.
   C-2   Commercial District.
   I-1   Light Industrial District.
   A-1   Agricultural District.
10-4-2: ZONING MAP:
   A.   Authorization: The location and boundaries of the districts established
by this Title are indicated upon the map entitled, "Official Zoning Map,
Village of Herscher, Illinois", which, together with all explanatory matter
thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this Title.
   B.   Location Of Map: The Official Zoning Map shall be located in the office
of the Village Clerk and shall be the final authority as to the current zoning
status of land and buildings, subject to such authorized amendments which be in
effect.
   C.   Interpretation Of District Boundaries: Where uncertainty exists as to
the boundaries of districts as shown on the Official Zoning Map, the following
rules shall apply:
      1.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
      2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
      3.   Boundary, lines which follow or approximately follow plotted lot
lines of other property lines as identified by the "Tax Identification Number"
of the parcel assigned by the County of Kankakee shall be construed as
following such lines.
      4.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed
to be midway between the main tracks.
      5.   Boundaries indicated as following shore lines shall be construed to
follow such shore lines, and in the event of change in the shore line, shall be
construed as moving with the actual shore line boundaries indicated as
approximately following the centerline of streams, or other bodies of water
shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
      6.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in subsection C1 through C3 above shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be determined by
dimensions shown on the Map, or in the absence of dimensions, by the scale of
the Map.
      7.   Where a zoning district boundary line divides a lot in single
ownership on the effective date of this Title, the regulations of this Title
for either portion of such lot may, at the owner’s discretion, apply to the
entire area of the lot or twenty five (25) feet beyond the zoning district
boundary lines, whichever is the lesser distance.
      8.   All streets, alleys, public ways and railroad rights-of-way, if not
otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as
the property immediately abutting upon such alleys, streets, public ways and
railroad rights-of-way, unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be
deemed to be the district boundary.
      9.   Streets or alleys which are shown on the Map and which have
heretofore been vacated, or which are vacated hereafter, shall be in the same
district as the land abutting both sides of the street or alley. If the land
abutting each side of the street or alley was located in different districts
before the street or alley was vacated, the centerline of the vacated street or
alley shall be the district boundary.
      10.   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map, or in other circumstances
not covered by subsection C1 through C9 above, the Planning Commission's
decision may be presented to the Village Board in the same matter as an
amendment to the Zoning Ordinance as outlined in Chapter 12 of this Title.
   D.   Changes: If, by amendment to this Title, any change is made in any
district boundary, is shall be shown on the Official Zoning Map. The date of
the latest updating of the Official Zoning Map shall be shown on the face of
the Map.
   E.   Availability: Zoning Maps, certified by the Village Clerk as showing
the districts created, approved and as amended, shall be available for public
reference and/or sale in the office of the Village Clerk.
10-4-3: ENTIRE AREA ZONED:
It is the intent that the entire area of zoning jurisdiction, including all
land and water areas, streets, alleys, railroads and other rights-of- way, be
included in the districts established by this Title. If any area is not shown
on the Official Zoning Map as being included in any district, it shall be
deemed to be in the R-1 Residential District.
Any additions to the Village, resulting from annexation, shall be zoned
according to the annexation agreement. If the annexation agreement does not
mention for which zoning district the property will be classified, the property
shall automatically be classified in the E-1 Residential District.
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. E-1 ESTATE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Purpose
10-5A-2: Policy
10-5A-3: Uses Permitted
10-5A-4: Special Uses Permitted
10-5A-5: Temporary Permit Uses Permitted
10-5A-6: Accessory Uses
10-5A-7: Prohibited Uses
10-5A-8: Special Provisions
10-5A-1: PURPOSE:
The Residential Zoning District E-1 is hereby established to further the use of
lands optimally suited to neither prime agricultural nor high density urban
uses because of location, topography, soil characteristics, wetness,
vegetation, or other natural or man-induced factors and where portions of the
land may be kept open to protect and conserve hilly areas, wetlands, prairies,
wooded regions, and other unique areas for the public benefit and perpetuation
of the diversity of natural eco-systems.
To provide lands for large lot, single-family residential uses which are the
optimum use due to topography, soils, natural characteristics, man-made
features, and/or location and existing uses.
To provide the opportunity to keep horses, or other large animals, and the
right to practice in a limited manner agriculture, floriculture, horticulture,
silvaculture, cultivation of field or garden crops, and similar related
activities, but within the limits of smaller lots.
10-5A-2: POLICY:
To achieve the purpose of the E-1 Estate Residential District, it shall be the
policy of the Village to:
   A.   Foster uses where adequate police and fire protection are available.
   B.   Allow a minimum two (2) acre lot for single-family residential use and
other permitted compatible uses where each domicile may be served by an on-site
sewage disposal system.
   C.   Zone E-1 lands least adaptable for sustained long-term agriculture uses
and/or least suitable for dense urbanized development because of location,
topography, geology, soil types, hydrologic characteristics, or other natural
features of the land.
10-5A-3: USES PERMITTED:
No land shall be used or occupied and no building, structure, or premises shall
be erected, altered, enlarged, occupied, or used, except as otherwise provided
in this Title for other than one or more of the following specified uses:
   A.   Residential Uses: Single-family detached dwellings.
   B.   Public, quasi-public, and governmental buildings and facilities:
      1.   Churches and other places of worship.
      2.   Municipal buildings.
      3.   Public and parochial schools.
      4.   Public parks, public playgrounds and public community center
buildings.
   C.   Agricultural Uses:
      1.   Gardening and general farming, for private use only, but not
including poultry and livestock.
      2.   Greenhouses for private use only; nurseries for private use only.
10-5A-4: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted only if specifically authorized by the
Village Board as allowed in Chapter 12 of this Title:
   A.   Similar and compatible uses to those allowed as "permitted uses" in
this District.
   B.   Clubhouses, country clubs, public or private golf courses, tennis
clubs, swimming pools, and similar recreational uses.
   C.   Public utility buildings and structures.
   D.   Kennels for boarding so long as the owners of the kennel reside on the
zoning lot, and an adequate means for controlling noise, wastes, and other
nuisances to adjoining residential properties are in place at the time the
building permit or special use is granted.
   E.   Nurseries and greenhouses for wholesale use only.
   F.   Cemeteries.
   G.   Horses, but not more than one per acre, and housed in a barn at least
one hundred (100) feet from any property line. Horses shall not be grazed in a
front or side yard, and over-grazing is prohibited. Approval of the
construction of said barn shall also be part of the special use application.
   H.   Nursery schools, day schools, and child care centers.
   I.   More than one detached accessory structure or portions of principal
buildings designed, arranged, used, or to be used for the storage of
automobiles of the occupants of the premises, per principal building.
   J.   More than one detached accessory shed, tool room, or similar building
or structure used for domestic storage, per principal building.
10-5A-5: TEMPORARY PERMIT USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Official of a permit, the
following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
   A.   Temporary building, trailer, or yard for construction materials and/or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning
district. Each permit shall specify the location of both building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period
of not more than six (6) calendar months and shall not be renewed for more than
four (4) successive periods at the same location.
   B.   Temporary office, both incidental and necessary for the sale or rental
of real property. Each permit shall specify the location of the office and the
area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period of
not more than one year and shall not be renewed for more than five (5)
successive periods at the same location.
10-5A-6: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses, buildings or other structures customarily incidental to and
commonly associated with a principal or conditioned permitted use may be
permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same ownership
and on the same lot as the permitted use, do not include structural features
inconsistent with the permitted use, and do not involve the conduct of any
business, trade, or industry.
   A.   Garages, carports, or other parking spaces for the exclusive use of the
resident occupants of the premises.
   B.   Swimming pools, exclusively for the use of the residents and their
guests and setback from every property line at least twenty (20) feet.
   C.   Real estate signs in accordance with the applicable regulations of
Chapter 11 of this Title.
   D.   Gardening, greenhouse, and other facilities for raising of plant
materials, fruits, and vegetables.
   E.   Home occupations.
10-5A-7: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in Sections
10-5A-3 through
10-5A-6, inclusive.
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: A separate ground area of not less than two (2) acres
shall be designated, provided, and continuously maintained for each parcel
containing a permitted or special use.
   B.   Minimum Lot Frontage: A minimum lot frontage of two hundred (200) feet
shall be provided for each parcel containing a permitted or special use.
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: All structures shall be set back at least fifty (50)
feet from the front lot line.
      2.   Side Yard: All structures shall be set in from the side lot line a
distance of not less than twenty (20) feet or ten percent (10%) of the lot
frontage, whichever is greater.
      3.   Rear Yard: All principal structures shall be set in a distance of
not less than thirty (30) feet from the rear lot line.
   D.   Maximum Height: No principal structure shall exceed thirty five (35)
feet in height, and no accessory structure shall exceed twenty (20) feet in
height, except as provided elsewhere in this Title.
   E.   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed thirty percent (30%).
   F.   Minimum Size of Dwelling: Each single-family detached dwelling, and any
other structure occupied in whole or in part for residential purposes, shall
contain at least one thousand seven hundred (1,700) square feet of livable
floor area exclusive of garages and any story below grade. All residential
units shall be required to have an attached garage having space for storage of
a minimum of two (2) passenger automobiles.
10-5A-8: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Parking Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in Chapter 10 of this Title.
   B.   Sign Regulations: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in Chapter 11 of this Title.
   C.   Trucks: Trucks shall be parked or stored only in accordance with the
requirements of Chapter 10 of this Title.
   D.   Tents: Tents shall not be erected, used or maintained on any lot,
except such tents that are customarily used for temporary purposes.
ARTICLE B. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Purpose
10-5B-2: Policy
10-5B-3: Uses Permitted
10-5B-4: Special Uses Permitted
10-5B-5: Temporary Uses Permitted
10-5B-6: Accessory Uses
10-5B-7: Prohibited Uses
10-5B-8: Site And Structure Requirements
10-5B-9: Special Provisions
10-5B-1: PURPOSE:
The Residential District R-1 as hereby established to provide for an
environment of predominately single-family dwellings with certain additional
compatible uses which serve the residents living in the District. The R-
1 District is also established to implement the purpose and intent for
residential districts where provision for compatible community facilities and
services are available or can be made available in the near future.
10-5B-2: POLICY:
To achieve the purpose of the R-1 Single-Family District, it shall be the
policy of the Village to:
   A.   So locate R-1 Districts to other districts nearby or adjacent to
available Municipal police and fire protection so as to protect these
residential areas from the danger of fire, explosion, or noxious fumes and the
irritations of offensive odors, noise, smoke, vibrations, glare, or other
threats to health and well being.
   B.   So locate R-1 Single-Family Districts where paved roads meeting current
Village standards may serve the residents providing convenience and safety in
transportation where mobility is not impeded and where hazards and the
intensity or potential for accidents are avoided or minimized.
10-5B-3: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Residential Uses:
      1.   Single-Family detached dwellings.
      2.   Small Group Home, as defined in Chapter 2 of this Title and provided
no group home is established within six hundred (600) feet.
      3.   Churches and other places of worship.
      4.   Municipal buildings.
      5.   Public and parochial schools.
      6.   Public libraries.
      7.   Public parks, public playgrounds and public community center
buildings.
10-5B-4: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
   A.   The following uses shall be permitted only if specifically authorized
by the Village Board as allowed in Chapter 12 of this Title:
      1.   Similar and compatible uses to those allowed as "permitted uses" in
this District.
      2.   Clubhouses, country clubs, public or private golf courses, tennis
clubs, swimming pools, and similar recreational uses.
      3.   Nursery schools and day care centers, when accessory to the
principal residence on the premises.
      4.   Public utility buildings and structures.
      5.   Nurseries for private use only.
      6.   Greenhouses for private use only.
      7.   More than one detached accessory structure or portions of principal
buildings designed, arranged, used, or intended to be used for the storage of
automobiles of the occupants of the premises, per principal building.
      8.   More than one detached accessory shed, tool room or similar building
or structure used for domestic storage, per principal building.
      9.   A carriage house is permitted provided it meets the minimum
standards listed below:
         a.   An accessory dwelling of a principal residential structure
intended for storing vehicles. It shall consist of a minimum of one full
bathroom and one bedroom.
         b.   Minimum one-half acre lot size.
         c.   Minimum size of one thousand (1,000) square feet and maximum of
fifty percent (50%) of the square footage of the principal structure, including
the attached garage.
         d.   Height Restrictions: If the principal structure is one story,
then the Carriage House cannot be taller than the principal structure. If the
principal structure is two or more stories, then the Carriage House cannot be
taller than seventy-five percent (75%) of a two story structure.
         e.   Driveway Construction Specifications: All driveway specifications
contained in Title 8 Chapter 1 Section 7 apply.
         f.   The Carriage House must have a twenty (20) foot setback from the
principal structure and a forty (40) foot setback from the front of the
property. All other standard setbacks also apply.
         g.   All primary exterior materials shall match or be of similar décor
to the primary exterior materials of the principal structure.
         h.   All windows shall match or be of similar décor to the windows in
the principal structure.
         i.   All utilities shall be buried.
         j.   In consideration of the Village approving a Carriage House
Special Use Permit, the owner must record a "Carriage House Agreement" with the
Kankakee County Recorder. The Agreement shall be prepared by the Village and
shall be signed by both the Village and the owner. The owner shall pay all
required County recording fees. Said agreement shall be binding on the heirs,
assigns, and subsequent owners of the property. Any future changes to the
Agreement must be signed by the current owner and the Village and re-recorded
with the Kankakee County Recorder.
10-5B-5: TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Official of a permit, the
following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
   A.   Temporary building, trailer, or yard for construction materials and/or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning
district. Each permit shall specify the location of both building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period
of not more than six (6) calendar months and shall not be renewed for more than
four (4) successive periods at the same location.
   B.   Temporary office, both incidental and necessary for the sale or rental
of real property. Each permit shall specify the location of the office and the
area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period of
not more than one year and shall not be renewed for more than five (5)
successive periods at the same location.
10-5B-6: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses, buildings, or other structures customarily incidental to and
commonly associated with a principal or conditioned permitted use may be
permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same ownership
and on the same lot as the permitted use, do not include structural features
inconsistent with the permitted use, and do not involve the conduct of any
business, trade, or industry.
   A   Garages, carports, or other parking spaces for the exclusive use of
residential occupants of the premises.
   B.   Swimming pools, exclusively for the use of the residents and their
guests, and set back from every property line at least ten (10) feet.
   C.   Real estate signs in accordance with the applicable regulations of
Chapter 11 of this Title.
   D.   Gardening, raising of plant material, fruits, and vegetables.
   E.   Keeping of household pets exclusively for the use of personal enjoyment
of residents of the premises and not for commercial purposes as defined as
kennels in Chapter 2 of this Title.
   F.   Home occupations.
10-5B-7: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in Sections
10-5B-3 through
10-5B-6, inclusively.
10-5B-8: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: A separate ground area of not less than ten thousand
five hundred (10,500) square feet shall be designated, provided, and
continuously maintained for each parcel containing a permitted and special use.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: A minimum lot width of eighty (80) feet shall be
provided for each parcel containing a permitted or special use. Comer lots
shall have a minimum lot width of ninety (90) feet.
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: All structures shall be set back at least thirty (30)
feet from the front lot line.
      2.   Side Yard: All structures shall be set in from the side lot line a
distance not less than ten feet (10) feet or ten percent (10%) of the lot
width, whichever is greater.
      3.   Rear Yard: All principal structures shall be set in a distance of
not less than twenty five (25) feet from the rear property line.
   D.   Maximum Height: No principal structure shall exceed thirty five (35)
feet in height, no detached garage shall exceed fifteen (15) feet, or the
height of the principal structure, whichever is less, and no other accessory
structure shall exceed twelve (12) feet in height, except provided in Section
10-3-3.
   E.   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed fifty percent (50%).
   F.   Minimum Size of Dwelling: Each single-family detached dwelling, and any
other structure occupied in whole or in part for residential purposes, shall
contain at least one thousand three hundred fifty (1,350) square feet of
livable floor area, exclusive of garages and any story below grade. All
residential units shall be required to have an attached garage having space for
storage of a minimum of two (2) passenger automobiles.
10-5B-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Parking requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in Chapter 10 of this Title.
   B.   Sign Regulations: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in Chapter 11 of this Title.
   C.   Trucks: Trucks shall be parked or stored only in accordance with the
requirements of Chapter 10 of this Title.
   D.   Tents: Tents shall not be erected, used, or maintained on any lot,
except such tents that are customarily used for temporary recreational
purposes.
   E.   Residential Driveways: Shall be constructed of asphalt, concrete or
brick pavers and meet the conditions set forth in Section
10-10-1-5M.
ARTICLE C. R-2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5C-1: Purpose
10-5C-2: Policy
10-5C-3: Uses Permitted
10-5C-4: Special Uses Permitted
10-5C-5: Temporary Uses Permitted
10-5C-6: Accessory Uses
10-5C-7: Prohibited Uses
10-5C-8: Site And Structure Requirements
10-5C-9: Special Provisions
10-5C-1: PURPOSE:
The Two-Family Residential District R-2 as hereby established to provide for an
environment of predominately two-family attached dwellings with certain
additional compatible uses which serve the residents living in the District.
The R-2 District is also established to implement the purpose and intent for
residential districts where provision for compatible community facilities and
services are available or can be made available in the near future.
10-5C-2: POLICY:
To achieve the purpose of the R-2 Two-Family District, it shall be the policy
of the Village to:
   A.   To locate R-2 Districts to other districts nearby or adjacent to
available Municipal police and fire protection so as to protect these
residential areas from the danger of fire, explosion, or noxious fumes and the
irritations of offensive odors, noise, smoke, vibrations, glare, or other
threats to health and well being.
   B.   To locate R-2 Districts where paved roads meeting current Village
standards may serve the residents providing convenience and safety in
transportation where mobility is not impeded and where hazards and the
intensity or potential for accidents are avoided or minimized.
10-5C-3: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Residential Uses:
      1.   Two-Family attached dwellings.
      2.   Single-Family detached dwellings.
      3.   Small Group Homes, as defined in Chapter 2 of this Title and
provided no group home is established within six hundred (600) feet.
      4.   Churches and other places of worship.
      5.   Municipal buildings.
      6.   Public and parochial schools.
      7.   Public libraries.
      8.   Public parks, public playgrounds and public community center
buildings.
10-5C-4: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
   A.   The following uses shall be permitted only if specifically authorized
by the Board as allowed in Chapter 12 of this Title:
      1.   Similar and compatible uses to those allowed as "permitted uses" in
this District.
      2.   Clubhouses, country clubs, public or private golf courses, tennis
clubs, swimming pools, and similar recreational uses.
      3.   Nursery schools and day care centers, when accessory to the
principal residence on the premises.
      4.   Public utility buildings and structures.
      5.   More than one detached accessory structure or portions of principal
buildings designed, arranged, used, or intended to be used for the storage of
automobiles of the occupants of the premises, per principal building.
      6.   More than one detached accessory shed, tool room or similar building
or structure used for domestic storage, per principal building.
10-5C-5: TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Official of a permit, the
following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
   A.   Temporary building, trailer, or yard for construction materials and/or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning
district. Each permit shall specify the location of both building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period
of not more than six (6) calendar months and shall not be renewed for more than
four (4) successive periods at the same location.
   B.   Temporary office, both incidental and necessary for the sale or rental
of real property. Each permit shall specify the location of the office and the
area of permitted operation.
Each such permit shall be valid for a period of not more than one year and
shall not be renewed for more than five (5) successive periods at the same
location.
10-5C-6: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses, buildings, or other structures customarily incidental to and
commonly associated with a principal or conditioned permitted use may be
permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same ownership
and on the same lot as the permitted use, do not include structural features
inconsistent with the permitted use, and do not involve the conduct of any
business, trade, or industry.
   A.   Garages, carports, or other parking spaces for the exclusive use of
residential occupants of the premises.
   B.   Swimming pools, exclusively for the use of the residents and their
guests, and set back from every property line at least ten (10) feet.
   C.   Real estate signs in accordance with the applicable regulations of
Chapter 11 of this Title.
   D.   Gardening, raising of plant material, fruits, and vegetables.
   E.   Keeping of household pets exclusively for the use of personal enjoyment
of residents of the premises and not for commercial purposes as defined as
kennels in Chapter 2 of this Title.
   F.   Home occupations.
10-5C-7: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in Sections
10-5C-3 through
10-5C-6, inclusively.
10-5C-8: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: A separate ground area of not less than eleven
thousand five hundred (11,500) square feet shall be designated, provided, and
continuously maintained for each parcel containing a permitted and special use.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width. A minimum lot width of eighty five (85) feet shall
be provided for each parcel containing a permitted or special use. Corner lots
shall have a minimum lot width of one hundred (100) feet.
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: All structures shall be set back at least thirty (30)
feet from the front lot line.
      2.   Side Yard: All structures shall be set in from the side lot line a
distance not less than ten feet (10) feet or ten percent (10%) of the lot
width, whichever is greater.
      3.   Rear Yard: All principal structures shall be set in a distance of
not less than twenty five (25) feet from the rear property line.
   D.   Maximum Height: No principal structure shall exceed thirty five (35)
feet in height, no detached garage shall exceed fifteen (15) feet, or the
height of the principal structure, whichever is less, and no other accessory
structure shall exceed twelve (12) feet in height, except provided in Section
10-3-3.
   E.   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed fifty percent (50%).
   F.   Minimum Size Of Dwelling: Each attached dwelling unit, and any other
structure occupied in whole or in part for residential purposes, shall contain
at least one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of livable floor area,
exclusive of garages and any story below grade. Each residential unit shall be
required to have an attached garage having space for storage of a minimum of
two (2) passenger automobiles.
10-5C-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Parking requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in Chapter 10 of this Title.
   B.   Sign Regulations: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in Chapter 11 of this Title.
   C.   Trucks: Trucks shall be parked or stored only in accordance with the
requirements of Chapter 10 of this Title.
   D.   Tents: Tents shall not be erected, used, or maintained on any lot,
except such tents that are customarily used for temporary recreational
purposes.
   E.   Residential Driveways: Shall be constructed of asphalt or concrete and
meet the conditions set forth in Section
10-10-1-5M.
ARTICLE D. R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5D-1: Purpose
10-5D-2: Policy
10-5D-3: Uses Permitted
10-5D-4: Special Uses Permitted
10-5D-5: Temporary Uses Permitted
10-5D-6: Accessory Uses
10-5D-7: Prohibited Uses
10-5D-8: Site Snd Structure Requirements
10-5D-9: Special Provisions
10-5D-1: PURPOSE:
The Multiple-Family Residence District R-3 as hereby established to permit
existing multi-family developments and to provide for an environment of
predominately attached, semi-attached and two-family attached dwellings with
certain additional compatible uses which serve the residents living in the
District. The R-3 District is also established to implement the purpose and
intent for residential districts by providing an appropriate density where
provision for compatible community facilities and services are available or can
be made available in the near future.
10-5D-2: POLICY:
To achieve the purpose of the R-3 Multiple-Family Residence District, it shall
be the policy of the Village to:
   A.   So locate R-3 Districts to other districts nearby or adjacent to
available Municipal police and fire protection so as to protect these
residential areas from the danger of fire, explosion, or noxious fumes and the
irritations of offensive odors, noise, smoke, vibrations, glare, or other
threats to health and well being.
   B.   So locate R-3 Districts where paved roads meeting current Village
standards may serve the residents providing convenience and safety in
transportation where mobility is not impeded and where hazards and the
intensity or potential for accidents are avoided or minimized.
   C.   So locate R-3 Districts to minimize its effects on single-family
developments.
10-5D-3: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Residential Uses:
      1.   Attached residential dwellings.
      2.   Semi-attached dwellings.
      3.   Two-Family attached dwellings and the property is under single
ownership.
      4.   Large and Small Group Homes, as defined in Chapter 2 of this Title
and provided no group home is established within six hundred (600) feet.
   B.   Public, quasi-public, and governmental buildings and facilities:
      1.   Churches and other places of worship.
      2.   Municipal buildings.
      3.   Public and parochial schools.
      4.   Public libraries.
      5.   Public parks, public playgrounds and public community center
buildings.
10-5D-4: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
   A.   The following uses shall be permitted only if specifically authorized
by the Board as allowed in Chapter 12 of this Title:
      1.   Similar and compatible uses to those allowed as "permitted uses" in
this District.
      2.   Clubhouses, country clubs, public or private golf courses, tennis
clubs, swimming pools, and similar recreational uses.
      3.   Public utility buildings and structures.
      4.   Nursery school, day nursery, and child care center, but not allowed
in a multifamily residence unit.
      5.   Other multi-family dwellings not listed as permitted use.
      6.   More than one accessory structure or portions of principal buildings
designed, arranged, used, or intended to be used for the storage of automobiles
of the occupants of the premises, per dwelling unit.
      7.   More than one detached accessory shed, tool room or similar building
or structure used for domestic storage, per principal building.
10-5D-5: TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Official of a permit, the
following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
   A.   Temporary building, trailer, or yard for construction materials and/or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning
district. Each permit shall specify the location of both building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period
of not more than six (6) calendar months and shall not be renewed for more than
four (4) successive periods at the same location.
   B.   Temporary office, both incidental and necessary for the sale or rental
of real property. Each permit shall specify the location of the office and the
area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period of
not more than one year and shall not be renewed for more than five (5)
successive periods at the same location.
10-5D-6: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses, buildings, or other structures customarily incidental to and
commonly associated with a principal or conditioned permitted use may be
permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same ownership
and on the same lot as the permitted use, do not include structures or
structural features inconsistent with the permitted use, and do not involve the
conduct of any business, trade, or industry.
   A.   Detached garages or structures associated with automobile storage for
the exclusive use of residential occupants of the premises of residential uses,
provided the parking space quantity does not exceed the number of units in a
building. Said garages may exceed the size limitations stipulated in Section
10-3-3 of this Title.
   B.   Swimming pools, exclusively for the use of the residents and their
guests, and set back from every property line at least twenty (20) feet.
   C.   Real estate signs in accordance with the applicable regulations of
Chapter 11 of this Title.
   D.   Keeping of household pets exclusively for the use of personal enjoyment
of residents of the premises and not for commercial purposes as defined as
kennels in Chapter 2 of this Title.
   E.   Home occupations.
10-5D-7: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in Sections
10-5D-3 through
10-5D-6, inclusively.
10-5D-8: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: A separate ground area of not less than fifteen
thousand (15,000) square feet shall be designated, provided, and continuously
maintained for each parcel containing a multi-family dwelling and special use.
This requirement shall not pertain to conveyances for individual attached,
semi-attached or two-family dwelling units. For:
      1.   Thirty (30) feet from the front lot line.
      2.   Side Yard: All structures shall be set in from the side lot line a
distance not less than fifteen (15) feet.
      3.   Rear Yard: All principal structures shall be set in a distance of
not less than forty (40) feet from the rear property line.
   B.   Maximum Height: No principal structure shall exceed two and one-half (2
1/2) stories or thirty five (35) feet in height, no detached garage shall
exceed fifteen (15) feet, or the height of the principal structure, whichever
is less, and no other accessory structure shall exceed twelve (12) feet in
height, except provided in Section
10-3-3.
   C.   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed seventy percent (70%).
   D.   Minimum Size Of Dwelling: Each dwelling shall contain at least the
following square feet of floor area for each dwelling unit: multi-family
buildings, a ground area of three thousand (3,000) square feet shall be
required for each dwelling unit in the building.
   E.   Minimum Lot Width: A minimum lot width of eighty five (85) feet shall
be provided for each parcel containing a two (2) unit building, and one hundred
twenty (120) feet containing a multi-family building. Corner lots containing
multi-family dwellings shall contain a minimum of one hundred forty (140) feet
of lot width.
   F.   Yards:
   G.   Front Yard: All structures shall be set back at least thirty [text
missing].
      1.   One thousand (1,000) square feet for one (1) and two (2) bedroom
units.
      2.   One thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet for three (3) or more
bedroom units.
10-5D-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Parking requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in Chapter 10 of this Title.
   B.   Sign Regulations: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in Chapter 11 of this Title.
   C.   Trucks: Trucks shall be parked or stored only in accordance with the
requirements of Chapter 10 of this Title.
   D.   Trailers And Boats: Travel trailers and boats shall not be parked or
stored on a zoning lot in an R-3 District.
   E.   Tents: Tents shall not be erected, used, or maintained on any lot,
except such tents that are customarily used for temporary recreational
purposes.
CHAPTER 6
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. C-1 DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Purpose
10-6A-2: Policy
10-6A-3: Uses Permitted
10-6A-4: Special Uses Permitted
10-6A-5: Temporary Uses Permitted
10-6A-6: Accessory Uses Permitted
10-6A-7: Prohibited Uses
10-6A-8: Site And Structure Requirements
10-6A-9: Special Provisions
10-6A-1: PURPOSE:
To preserve the historical characteristics and heritage of the traditional
central commercial area of the Village, which by its nature requires special
regulation design to enhance the area and insure that future development or
redevelopment is not incompatible with the historical character of the area.
The area included within this district has historical significance as being the
Commercial Business Center of the Village as it was originally laid out.
10-6A-2: POLICY:
To achieve the purpose of commercial districts and preserve the C-1 Downtown
Commercial District, it shall be the policy of the Village to:
   A.   Insure that all redevelopment or new development is consistent in
appearance with surrounding buildings and historical characteristics of the
area.
   B.   Promote sound community planning to preserve the heritage, aesthetic
interest, values, and customs related to the historic significance of the area.
   C.   Preserve the economic stability of retail trade and personal service
business of the Traditional Downtown Commercial District.
10-6A-3: USES PERMITTED:
No land shall be used or occupied and no building, structure, or premises shall
be erected, altered, enlarged, occupied or used, except as otherwise provided
in this Title for other than one or more of the following uses:
   A.   Retail businesses which supply commodities on the premises:
      1.   Antique store.
      2.   Appliance store.
      3.   Apparel stores.
      4.   Art and school supply store.
      5.   Art gallery.
      6.   Automobile parts and supply store.
      7.   Automobile repair, minor.
      8.   Automobile sales dealership.
      9.   Bakery, in which the manufacture of goods is limited to goods
retailed on the premises only.
      10.   Bicycle store - retail, rental and repair.
      11.   Billiard and pool hall.
      12.   Book and stationary store.
      13.   Business machine store.
      14.   Camera store.
      15.   Candy and confectionery store.
      16.   China and glassware store.
      17.   Dairy products store.
      18.   Delicatessen.
      19.   Department store.
      20.   Drapery store.
      21.   Drive-in uses, when accessory to a permitted use.
      22.   Drug store.
      23.   Dry goods store.
      24.   Floral shop.
      25.   Floor coverings, including rugs and carpets.
      26.   Furniture store.
      27.   Gift shop.
      28.   Grocery and food store.
      29.   Hardware store.
      30.   Hobby shop.
      31.   Ice cream store.
      32.   Jewelry store.
      33.   Leather goods and luggage store.
      34.   Linoleum and tile store.
      35.   Locksmith.
      36.   Meat market.
      37.   Merchandising machines, sale of products.
      38.   Music store.
      39.   Newsstand.
      40.   Office supplies and stationary store.
      41.   Paint and wallpaper store.
      42.   Pet shop.
      43.   Radio and television sales.
      44.   Record shop.
      45.   Restaurants.
      46.   Shoe store.
      47.   Sporting goods store.   
      48.   Tobacco shop.   
      49.   Toy store.
      50.   Variety store.
   B.   Personal service establishments which perform services on the premises:
      1.   Beauty parlor.
      2.   Dry cleaner.
      3.   General minor repair or fix-it-shop, excluding automobile repair.
      4.   Interior decorating shop.
      5.   Laundry.
      6.   Meeting hall.
      7.   Tailor or dressmaker.
      8.   Travel bureau.
      9.   Undertaking establishment and funeral parlor.
   C.   Business service establishments:
      1.   Banks.
      2.   Bowling alley.
      3.   Business and management consultants.
      4.   Business office.
      5.   Chamber of Commerce.
      6.   Charitable organization.
      7.   Civic association.
      8.   Credit agency.
      9.   Currency exchange.
      10.   Employment agency.
      11.   Financial institution.
      12.   Insurance agency.
      13.   Investment carrier.
      14.   Investment company.
      15.   Labor union and organization.
      16.   Loan agency.
      17.   Mail order house.
      18.   Merchants association.
      19.   News syndicate.
      20.   Newspaper office.
      21.   Parking lot, commercial.
      22.   Picture framing.
      23.   Professional membership association.
      24.   Radio and television service and repair.
      25.   Real estate office.
      26.   Savings and loan.
      27.   Security and commodity broker.
      28.   Social service and fraternal association.
      29.   Trade association.
      30.   Theater, indoor only.
      31.   Video rental establishments, including repair of video equipment.
   D.   Professional office establishments:
      1.   Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping.
      2.   Artists and industrial designers.
      3.   Attorney and law office.
      4.   Chiropractor's office.
      5.   Dentist's office.
      6.   Doctor's, surgeon's and/or physician's office.
      7.   Engineering and architectural services.
      8.   Laboratories - medical and dental.
      9.   Land Surveyors.
      10.   Medical and dental clinics.
      11.   Optician's office.
      12.   Osteopath's office.
      13.   Private clinic.
      14.   Professional consultants.
      15.   Professional offices.
      16.   Scientific research agencies.
   E.   Public, quasi-public and governmental buildings and facilities:
      1.   Churches.
      2.   Essential services (as defined in Section 2 of this Title).
      3.   Museum, art gallery.
      4.   Office building.
      5.   Post office.
      6.   Public utility establishment.
   F.   Retail businesses-alcohol sales and consumption, as permitted by the
Liquor Commissioner.
   G.   Other uses similar to the above listings as approved by the Zoning
Official.
10-6A-4: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted only if specifically authorized by the
Board as allowed in Chapter 12 of this Title.
   A.   Nursery school, day nursery, and child care center.
   B.   Residence when on the second floor of a commercial establishment.
   C.   Drive-in banking and saving and loan facilities.
   D.   Drive-in restaurants.
   E.   Bars, taverns, and cocktail lounges as permitted by the Liquor
Commissioner.
10-6A-5: TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Official of a permit, the
following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
   A.   Temporary building, trailer or yard for construction materials and/or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the Zoning
District. Each permit shall specify the location of the building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period
of not more than six (6) calendar months and shall not be renewed for more than
four (4) successive periods at the same location.
   B.   Temporary office, both incidental and necessary for the sale or rental
of real property. Each permit shall specify the location of the office and the
area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period of
not more than one year and shall not be renewed for more than five (5)
successive periods at the same location.
   C.   Christmas tree sales, each such permit shall be valid for a period of
not more than sixty (60) days.
   D.   Parking lot designated for a special event; provided, however, that
each permit shall be valid only for the duration of the designated special
event.
   E.   Temporary mobile signs as provided in Chapter 11 of the Title.
10-6A-6: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
Accessory uses, buildings, or other structures and devices customarily
incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted use or special use may
be permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership, on the same zoning lot, and do not include structures or features
inconsistent with the permitted use or special use.
10-6A-7: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in Sections
10-6A-3 through
10-6A-6, inclusive.
10-6A-8: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Five thousand (5,000) square feet of separate ground
area shall be provided for each parcel containing a permitted or special use.
   B.   Minimum Lot Frontage: A minimum lot frontage of fifty (50) feet shall
be provided for each parcel used for a permitted or special use.
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: All structures shall be set back the same distance as
the setback from the front lot line as the structures located on adjacent
parcels and as approved by the Zoning Official.
      2.   Side Yard: No side yards shall be required. However, adequate
provision for maintenance of side walls and internal vehicular circulation
shall be made.
      3.   Rear Yard: All structures shall be set back at least ten (10) feet
from the rear lot line.
   D.   Maximum Height: No structure or portion thereof shall exceed a height
of thirty five (35) feet.
   E.   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed two hundred percent (200%).
10-6A-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Outdoor Storage: No outdoor storage shall be permitted.
   B.   Parking Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in Chapter 10 of this Title.
   C.   Sign Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in Chapter 11 of this Title.
   D.   Scope of Operations: All business establishments shall be retail trade
or service establishments dealing directly with consumers and all goods
produced on the premises shall be sold on the premises where produced.
   E.   Screening: Where a commercial or office use abuts or is across the
street from a residential district, adequate screening shall be provided as set
forth in Section
10-3-6.
ARTICLE B. C-2 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Purpose
10-6B-2: Policy
10-6B-3: Uses Permitted
10-6B-4: Special Uses Permitted
10-6B-5: Temporary Uses Permitted
10-6B-6: Accessory Uses Permitted
10-6B-7: Prohibited Uses
10-6B-8: Site And Structure Requirements
10-6B-9: Special Provisions
10-6B-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   To promote areas which primarily serve the needs of motorists in a
manner conducive to generating business development.
   B.   To promote regulations for highway associated uses through adequately
sized parcels of land allowing for setbacks, clear vision and safe ingress and
egress.
10-6B-2: POLICY:
To achieve the purpose of the C-2 District, it shall be the policy of the
Village to:
   A.   Promote the grouping of C-2 uses to major thoroughfares and to
discourage the hazards to safety and nuisance of traffic congestion along
public streets.
   B.   Require adequate off-street parking and limited access to road through
the use of frontage roads.
10-6B-3: USES PERMITTED:
No land shall be used or occupied and no building enlarged, occupied, or used,
except as otherwise provided in this Title, for other than one or more of the
following specified uses:
   A.   Any use allowed in the C-1 Traditional Downtown District.
   B.   Retail business, which supply commodities on the premises:
      1.   Agriculture implement sales and service.
      2.   Automobile accessories, parts, and supplies stores.
      3.   Automobile service station.
      4.   Building services and supplies.
      5.   Camper sales.
      6.   Drive-in uses when accessory to a permitted use.
      7.   Restaurants.
      8.   Motor vehicle dealer and motor home dealer.
      9.   Motorcycle sales.
      10.   Tire, battery, and accessory dealer.
      11.   Used car lot.
   C.   Business service establishment which perform services on the premises:
      1.   Automobile diagnostic center or clinic.
      2.   Automobile repair, minor.
      3.   Automobile undercoating establishment.
      4.   Equipment rental and leasing service.
      5.   Lawn mowing repair service.
      6.   Motorcycle service and repair.
   D.   Public, quasi-public and governmental buildings and facilities:
      1.   Public, quasi-public and governmental buildings and facilities
permitted in the C-1 District.
      2.   Ambulance service.
      3.   Essential services, as defined.
      4.   Public service or Municipal fifty percent (50%) of the retail sales
of the establishment.
      5.   Package liquor sales.
      6.   Other uses similar to the above listings garage.
   E.   Retail business - alcohol sales and consumption, subject to approval by
the Liquor Commissioner:
Ancillary use in restaurants. Establishments serving meals in a permanent
building other than "drive-ins" with the serving of alcohol drinks from only a
service bar as an ancillary use not exceeding fifty percent (50%).
   F.   As approved by the Zoning Official.
10-6B-4: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted only if specifically authorized by the
Board as allowed in Chapter 12 of this Title:
   A.   Residence, secondary to the business use of the premises and not
located below the second floor above ground level of the building.
   B.   Drive-in restaurants, drive-in banks, and other drive-in uses when
acting as a primary use in itself and not accessory to a permitted or special
use.
   C.   Automobile laundry or car wash.
   D.   Automotive repair, major.
   E.   Outdoor storage. All outdoor storage facilities for fuel, raw materials
and products shall be enclosed by a fence, wall, or plant materials adequate to
conceal such facilities from adjacent properties and the public right-of-way.
   F.   Commercial recreational uses.
   G.   Lumber yard.
   H.   Mobile home dealer.
   I.   Bars, taverns, and cocktail lounges as approved by the Liquor
Commissioner.
   J.   Mini warehouses for private storage.
10-6B-5: TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Official of a permit, the
following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
   A.   C-1 District temporary permitted uses.
10-6B-6: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices customarily
incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted use or special use may
be permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership, on the same permitted use or special use.
10-6B-7: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in Section
10-6B-3 through
10-6B-6, inclusive.
10-6B-8: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Forty thousand (40,000) square feet of separate
ground area shall be provided for each parcel used for a permitted or special
use.
   B.   Minimum Lot Frontage: A minimum lot frontage of eighty (80) feet shall
be provided for each parcel used for a permitted or special use. Comer lots
shall have a minimum of one hundred (100) feet of lot width.
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: All structures shall be set back at least thirty (30)
feet from the front lot line.
      2.   Side Yard: All structures shall be set back at least five (5) feet
from the side lot line.
      3.   Rear Yard: All structures shall be set in from the rear lot line a
distance of not less than fifty (50) feet.
      4.   Transitional Yards: Where properties in the C-2 District are
adjoining other zoning districts or across road right-of-way from other zoning
districts, the required yards shall be at least equal in dimension to the
adjoining yards in the adjoining district(s) or the front yards in the district
(s) separated from the property by road right-of-way. Where yards in the C-
2 District exceed the requirements of the adjoining district(s), the yards of
the C-2 District shall apply.
   D.   Maximum Height: No structure or portion thereof, shall exceed a height
of thirty five (35) feet, and no accessory structure shall exceed fifteen (15)
feet in height.
   E.   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed one hundred percent (100%).
10-6B-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Outdoor Sales: All outdoor sales space shall be provided with a
permanent durable concrete or asphalt surface, and shall be graded and drained
as to dispose of all surface water.
   B.   Parking Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in Chapter 10 of this Title.
   C.   Sign Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in Chapter 11 of this Title.
   D.   Waste Materials: No materials or wastes shall be deposited upon a lot
in such a form that they may be transferred off the property by natural causes
or forces.
   E.   Screening: Where a commercial or office use abuts or is across the
street from a residential district, adequate screening shall be provided as set
forth in Section
10-3-6.
Chapter 7
I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7-1: Purpose
10-7-2: Policy
10-7-3: Uses Permitted
10-7-4: Special Uses Permitted
10-7-5: Temporary Uses Permitted
10-7-6: Accessory Uses Permitted
10-7-7: Prohibited Uses
10-7-8: Site And Structure Requirements
10-7-9: Special Provisions
10-7-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   To provide for lands for development by industrial firms that have high
standards of performance that can be located in relatively close proximity to
residential and business uses.
   B.   To provide regulations that are designed to permit the operations of
most manufacturing, wholesaling and warehousing activities with adequate
protection to adjacent district uses and sufficient control of external effects
to protect one industry from another.
   C.   To provide some retail uses that service industrial uses within the
industrial areas or that do not depend upon the direct visits of retail
customers.
10-7-2: POLICY:
To achieve the purpose of the I-1 District, it shall be the policy of the
Village to:
   A.   Promote industrial development in Municipal planned industrial areas.
   B.   Locate industrial uses on lands suitable for those purposes, yet at
locations that would not be harmful or disadvantageous to nearby or adjacent
lands.
   C.   So locate the I-1 Light Industrial District to available Municipal
police and fire protection so as to protect these areas from the dangers of
fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other threats to health and well being.
   D.   Encourage the grouping of compatible industrial activities, thereby
promoting convenience, efficiency and safety in transportation.
   E.   So locate the I-1 District where existing paved roads may provide
convenience, efficiency, and safety in transportation.
   F.   Discourage the intrusion of residential and commercial uses which are
noncompatible with I-1 uses.
   G.   Locate all I-1 Districts within current sewerage disposal service
areas.
10-7-3: USES PERMITTED:
No land shall be used or occupied and no building,
structure, or premises shall be erected, altered, enlarged, occupied, or used,
except as otherwise provided in this Title, for other than one or more of the
following specified uses:
   A.   Industrial type uses:
   Animal feed -- preparation, grinding, mixing and storage.
   All light manufacturing and industrial activities, not expressly prohibited
in Section
10-7-7 including fabrication, processing, assembly, disassembly, repairing,
cleaning, servicing, testing, packaging and storage of materials, products and
goods that can be conducted wholly within enclosed buildings.
   Fertilizer and seed sales.
   Grain storage.
   Laboratories and research firms involved in research, experimentation or
testing of materials, goods or products.
   Printing, publishing, or lithography establishments.
   Vocational schools.
   B.   Wholesale and warehouse uses:
   Direct selling establishments, where products are stored and distributed,
but not displayed for retail sales.
   Establishments that warehouse and distribute beverages.
   Mini warehouses.
   Wholesale and warehouse establishments that deal in commodities which are
the product of a use permitted in the I-1 District.
   C.   Public, quasi-public and governmental buildings and facilities:
   Animal pounds and shelters.
   Essential services, as defined in Chapter 2 of this Title.
   Office building.
   Public service or Municipal garage.
   Public utility establishment.
   Vocational school.
   D.   Miscellaneous Uses:
   Automobile service station.
   Contractor offices.
   Manufactured housing sales.
   Meeting halls.
   Professional offices.
   Restaurant.
   E.   Other uses similar to the above listings as approved by the Zoning
Official.
10-7-4: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted only if specifically authorized by the
Board as allowed in Chapter 12 of this Title.
   A.   Residence of the proprietor, caretaker or watchman, when located on the
premises of the commercial or industrial use.
   B.   Outdoor storage, including contractor's yards.
   C.   Service retail businesses, such as but not limited to:
      1.   Animal hospital.
      2.   Automobile painting, repair, major and minor, including body repair
shops, but excluding salvage yards.
      3.   Banks, savings and loans.
      4.   Blueprinting establishment.
      5.   Medical clinic.
10-7-5: TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Official of a permit, the
following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
   A.   Temporary building, trailer or yard for construction materials and/or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the Zoning
District. Each permit shall specify the location of the building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period
of not more than six (6) calendar months and shall not be renewed for more than
four (4) successive periods at the same location.
   B.   Temporary office or residence both incidental and necessary for the
sale, maintenance, or rental of real property. Each permit shall specify the
location of the office and the area of permitted operation. Each such permit
shall be valid for a period of not more than six (6) months and shall not be
renewed for more than four (4) successive periods at the same location.
10-7-6: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices customarily
incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted use or special use may
be permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership, on the same parcel, and do not include structures or features
inconsistent with the permitted use or special use.
10-7-7: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in Section
10-7-3 through
10-7-6, inclusive. Any use that creates any external odor, smoke, dust, noise
or glare or that involves the use of any radio-active or highly toxic
materials, as determined by the Zoning Official.
10-7-8: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of separate
ground area shall be provided for each parcel used for a permitted or special
use.
   B.   Minimum Lot Frontage: A minimum lot frontage of eighty (80) feet shall
be provided for each parcel used for a permitted or special use.
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: All structures shall be set back at least thirty (30)
feet from the front lot line.
      2.   Side Yard: All structures shall be set back at least five (5) feet
from the side lot line.
      3.   Rear Yard: All structures shall be set in from the rear lot line a
distance of not less than fifteen (15) feet.
      4.   Transitional Yards: Where properties in the I-1 District are
adjoining a residential or commercial district, a yard shall be provided along
such side lot line, not less than thirty (30) feet in width. Where properties
in the I-1 District are adjoining or across road right-of-way from commercial
or residential zoning districts, or across road right-of-way from other zoning
districts, the required yards shall be at least equal in dimension to the
adjoining yards in the adjoining district(s) or the front yards in the district
(s) separated from the property by road right-of-way. Where yards in the I-
1 District exceed the requirements of the adjoining district(s), the yards of
the I-1 District shall apply.
   D.   Maximum Height: No structure or portion thereof, shall exceed a height
of fifty (50) feet.
   E.   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed eighty percent (80%).
10-7-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Outdoor Sales: All outdoor sales space shall be provided with a
permanent durable concrete or asphalt surface, and shall be graded and drained
as to dispose of all surface water.
   B.   Parking Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in Chapter 10 of this Title.
   C.   Sign Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in Chapter 11 of this Title.
   D.   Waste Materials: No materials or wastes shall be deposited upon a lot
in such a form that they may be transferred off the property by natural causes
or forces.
   E.   Screening: Where a commercial or industrial use abuts or is across the
street from a residential district, adequate screening shall be provided as set
forth in Section
10-3-7.
   F.   Enclosure Of Use: All industrial or commercial operations shall take
place within completely enclosed buildings, unless otherwise specified.
   G.   Glare And Heat:
      1.   Any operation or activity producing glare shall be performed within
a completely enclosed building and be conducted so that direct and indirect
illumination from the source of light on the lot shall not cause illumination
in excess of one-half (1/2) foot candle when measured at the lot line. Exposed
sources of light shall be shielded and intense sources of light shall be
controlled so as not to cause a nuisance across lot lines.
      2.   Any operation producing intense heat shall be performed within a
completely enclosed building in such a manner as not to create a public
nuisance or hazard along lot lines.
CHAPTER 8
A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Policy
10-8-3: Uses Permitted
10-8-4: Special Uses Permitted
10-8-5: Temporary Uses Permitted
10-8-6: Accessory Uses Permitted
10-8-7: Prohibited Uses
10-8-8: Site And Structure Requirements
10-8-9: Special Provisions
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The Zoning District A-1 is hereby established to further the use of
lands optimally suited for agriculture use because of location, topography,
soil characteristics, wetness, vegetation, or other natural or man-induced
factors.
   B.   To provide lands for agricultural uses which are the optimum use due to
topography, soils, natural characteristics, man-made features, and/or location
and existing uses.
   C.   To provide the opportunity to keep horses or other large animals and
the right to practice agriculture, floriculture, horticulture, silvaculture,
cultivation of field or garden crops, and similar related activities.
10-8-2: POLICY:
To achieve the purpose of the A-1 Agriculture District, it shall be the policy
of the Village to:
   A.   Foster uses where adequate police and fire protection are available.
   B.   Require a minimum, continuous area for the A-1 Agriculture District to
be twenty (20) acres in area.
   C.   Require a minimum two and one-half (2½) acre lot for permitted
compatible uses.
   D.   Zone as A-1 lands adaptable for sustained long-term agricultural uses
because of location, topography, geology, soil types, other natural features of
the land or surrounding land use.
10-8-3: USES PERMITTED:
No land shall be used or occupied, and no building, structure, or premises
shall be erected, altered, enlarged, occupied, or used, except as otherwise
provided in the Title for other than one or more of the following specified
uses:
   A.   Agricultural Uses:
      1.   Gardening and general farming, either commercial or private.
      2.   Greenhouses.
      3.   Nurseries.
   B.   Two (2) farm homesteads for each twenty (20) acres of land area.
   C.   Public utility buildings and structures and essential services, as
defined herein.
10-8-4: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted only if specifically authorized by the
Board as allowed in Chapter 12 of this Title.
   A.   Similar and compatible uses to those allowed as "permitted uses" in
this District.
   B.   Clubhouses, country clubs, private or public golf courses, tennis
clubs, swimming pools, and similar recreational uses.
   C.   Cemeteries.
   D.   Horses, but not more than one per acre, and housed in a barn at least
one hundred (100) feet from any property line. Horses may not be grazing in a
required minimum front or side yard, and over-grazing is prohibited.
   E.   Riding academy or school, provided stables and horse care facilities
are provided as approved by the Village.
   F.   Kennels.
   G.   Commercial (for profit) storage of recreation vehicles (rv's, including
campers) and boats.
10-8-5: TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED:
Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Official of a permit, the
following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
   A.   Temporary building, trailer or yard for construction materials and/or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the Zoning
District. Each permit shall specify the location of the building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Each such permit shall be valid for a period
of not more than six (6) calendar months and shall not be renewed for more than
four (4) successive periods at the same location.
10-8-6: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices customarily
incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted use or special use may
be permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership, on the same parcel, and do not include structures or features
inconsistent with the permitted use or special use.
   A.   Garages, carports, or other parking spaces for the exclusive use of the
residents or occupants of the premises.
   B.   Barns, stables, greenhouses, and other similar structures for the
exclusive use of the occupants of the premises, which are incidental to the use
of the property.
   C.   Home occupations.
10-8-7: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses not expressly authorized in Section
10-8-3 through
10-8-6, inclusive.
10-8-8: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: A separate ground area of not less than twenty (20)
acres shall be designated, provided, and continuously maintained for
agricultural uses or land containing a permitted or special use. For each farm
homestead, a two and one-half (2 1/2 ) acre lot is required, provided no more
than two (2) farm homesteads may be permitted for any twenty (20) acre area of
land.
   B.   Minimum Lot Frontage: A minimum lot frontage of two hundred (200) feet
shall be provided for each parcel used for a permitted or special use.
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: All structures shall be set back at least fifty (50)
feet from the front lot line.
      2.   Side Yard: All principal structures shall be set back at least
twenty (20) feet from the side lot line.
      3.   Rear Yard: All structures shall be set in from the rear lot line a
distance of not less than forty (40) feet or greater if otherwise stated
herein.
   D.   Maximum Height: No principal structure or portion thereof shall exceed
a height of thirty five (35) feet, and no accessory structure shall exceed
twenty (20) in height.
   E.   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed 0T3-30%.
   F.   Each single family detached dwelling, and any other structure occupied
in whole or in part for residential purposes, shall contain at least one
thousand seven hundred (1,700) square feet of livable floor area, exclusive of
garages and any story below grade. All residential units shall be required to
have an attached garage having space for storage of a minimum of two (2)
passenger automobiles.
10-8-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Sign Requirements: In accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in Chapter 11 of this Title.
CHAPTER 9
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
10-9-1: Statement Of Purpose
10-9-2: Nonconforming Buildings And Structures
10-9-3: Nonconforming Use Of Conforming Building Or Structure
10-9-4: Nonconforming Use Of Land
10-9-5: Conversion To Special Use
10-9-6: Development As Legal Nonconforming Use
10-9-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide for the regulation of nonconforming
buildings, structures and uses, and to specify those circumstances and
conditions under which those nonconforming buildings, structures and uses may
be continued.
This Title establishes separate zoning districts, each of which is an
appropriate area for the location of the uses which are permitted in that
zoning district. It is necessary and consistent with the establishment of those
districts that those nonconforming buildings, structures and uses which
substantially and adversely affect the orderly development and taxable value of
other property in the district not be continued without restriction.
10-9-2: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
Any nonconforming building or structure which existed lawfully at the time of
the adoption of this Title and which remains nonconforming, and any such
building or structure which shall become nonconforming upon the adoption of
this Title or of any subsequent amendment thereto, may be continued in
accordance with the regulations which follow:
   A.   Repairs And Alterations:
      1.   Buildings Or Structures Intended For A Nonconforming Use: Ordinary
repairs and alterations may be made to a nonconforming building or structure
which existed lawfully at the time of the adoption of this Title and which
remains nonconforming, and any such building or structure which shall become
nonconforming upon the adoption of this Title or of any subsequent amendment
thereto, may be continued only in accordance with the regulations which follow:
         a.   A building in a residential district containing nonconforming
uses may be repaired or altered to improve livable and health conditions,
provided no changes are made that would increase the number of dwelling units
or the bulk of the building.
      2.   Building Or Structure Intended For A Permitted Use: Ordinary repairs
and structural changes may be made to a nonconforming building or structure,
all or substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use permitted
in the district in which it is located; provided said repairs, alterations or
structural changes conform to the regulations of the district in which said
building or structure is located.
   B.   Additions And Enlargements: A nonconforming building or structure, all
or substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use not permitted
in the district in which it is located, shall not be added to or enlarged in
any manner.
   C.   Moving Of Building Or Structure: No building or structure which does
not conform to all of the regulations of the district in which it is located
shall be moved in whole or in part to any other location unless every portion
of such building or structure is moved or removed and the use thereof is made
to conform to all regulations of the district into which it is moved.
   D.   Restoration Of Damaged, Nonconforming Building Or Structure: A building
or structure, all or substantially all of which is designed or intended for a
nonconforming use, which is destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty or
act of God to the extent that the cost of restoration to the condition in which
it was before the occurrence will exceed fifty percent (50%) of the cost of
restoration of the entire building or structure new, shall not be restored,
unless said building or structure thereof shall conform to all site and
structure requirements of the district in which it is located. In the event
that such damage or destruction is less than fifty percent (50%) of the cost of
restoration of the building or structure, no repairs or reconstruction shall be
made unless such restoration is started within one year from the date of the
partial destruction and is diligently pursued to completion.
   E.   Discontinuance Of Use Of Nonconforming Building Or Structure: A
building, structure or portion thereof, all or substantially all of which is
not permitted in the district in which it is located, and is vacant, unoccupied
and not used on the effective date of this Title or thereafter becomes vacant
and remains unoccupied or is not used for a continuous period of one (1) year
shall not thereafter be occupied or used except by a use which conforms to the
use regulations of the district in which it is located. Such change shall be
made after a public hearing in conformance with Chapter 12 of this Title.
   F.   Expansion Of Use In Nonconforming Building Or Structure: The
nonconforming use of a part of a building or structure may be expanded within
the building or structure in which said use is presently located, but no
changes and alterations will be permitted unless such changes and alterations,
and the use thereof, conform to all the regulations of the district in which
the building or structure is located.
   G.   Change Of A Nonconforming Use In Nonconforming Building Or Structure:
The nonconforming use of a building or structure may be changed to any other
permitted use in the district in which it is located; but no change shall
extend or otherwise modify any provision made in this Title for elimination of
such nonconforming buildings or structures, and the use thereof. Once a change
has been made to a permitted use, no change can be made back to the previous
nonconforming use. No nonconforming use shall be changed to another
nonconforming use.
10-9-3: NONCONFORMING USE OF CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE:
The nonconforming use of land not involving a building or structure, or in
connection with which any building or structure thereon is incidental or
accessory to the principal use of land, may be continued subject to the
principal use of the land and subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Expansion Of Nonconforming Use: The nonconforming use of part of a
building or structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure
is designed or intended for a use permitted in the district in which it is
located, shall not be expanded into any other portion of such building or
structure.
   B.   Discontinuance: If a nonconforming use of a building or structure, all
or substantially all of which building or structure is designed or intended for
a use permitted in the district in which it is located, is discontinued for a
period of one (1) year, it shall not be renewed, and any subsequent use of the
building or structure shall conform to the use regulations of the district in
which the premises are located. Such change shall be made after public hearing
in conformance with Chapter 12 of this Title.
   C.   Change Of Nonconforming Use: No nonconforming use shall be changed to
another nonconforming use when such nonconforming use is located in a building
or structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure is
designed or intended for a permitted use.
   D.   Change To A Conforming Use: Whenever all or any part of a building or
structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure is designed
or intended for a use permitted in the district in which it is located, is
occupied by a nonconforming use and is subsequently changed to or replaced by a
use conforming to the provisions of this Title, such premises shall not
thereafter be used or occupied by a nonconforming use.
10-9-4: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
The nonconforming use of land not involving a building or structure, or in
connection with which any building or structure thereon is incidental or
accessory to the principal use of land, may be continued subject to the
principal use of the land and subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Expansion: A nonconforming use of land shall not be expanded or
extended beyond the area it occupies.
   B.   Discontinuance: If a nonconforming use of land is discontinued for a
period of (1) year, it shall not thereafter be renewed, and any subsequent use
of land shall conform to the regulations of the district in which the land is
located. Such change shall be made after a public hearing in conformance with
Chapter 12 of this Title.
10-9-5: CONVERSION TO SPECIAL USE:
Any nonconforming building, structure or use may be converted to a permitted
"special use" by the granting of a special use permit, as authorized in Chapter
12 of this Title.
This conversion may occur only when it is shown that the nonconforming
building, structure, or use is providing a particular service to the residents
of the Village, and that the use is not detrimental to the Village as a whole
or to adjacent properties.
10-9-6: DEVELOPMENTS AS LEGAL NONCONFORMING USE:
Developments that have obtained preliminary and final approval at the time this
Title is adopted, may be developed as a legal nonconforming use, lot, or
building per the zoning regulations in effect at the time of approval. However,
developments having only preliminary approval prior to the adoption of this
Title must actively petition for final approval of at least one phase of the
project within one (1) year from the date on which preliminary approval was
granted, in order to proceed with the development in accordance with the zoning
regulations, except for yard requirements which shall comply with the
provisions set forth in this Title.
CHAPTER 10
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-10-1: Off-Street Parking Spaces
10-10-1-1: Scope
10-10-1-2: General Requirements
10-10-1-3: Location
10-10-1-4: Separate Or Combined Space
10-10-1-5: Design, Development, And Maintenance
10-10-1-6: Units Of Measurement
10-10-2: Off-Street Parking Table
10-10-3: Off-Street Loading Space
10-10-3-1: General Requirements
10-10-3-2: Specific Requirements
10-10-1: OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES:
10-10-1-1: SCOPE:
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply and govern all zoning districts.
10-10-1-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The duty to provide and maintain off-street parking space shall be the
joint and shared responsibility of the operator and/or owner of the use and/or
land for which off-street parking space is required to be provided and
maintained.
   B.   For land, structures, or uses actually used, occupied, or operated on
the effective date of this Title, there shall be provided such off-street
parking space as was required for such land, structures, or uses by any
previous ordinance. If such land, structure, or uses are enlarged, expanded, or
changed, there shall be provided, for that increment of expansion only, at
least the amount of off-street parking space that would be required hereunder
if the increment were a separate land, structure, or use established or placed
into operation after the effective date of this Title.
   C.   For all uses established or placed into operation after the effective
date of this Title, there shall be constructed, provided, preserved, and
maintained the amount of off-street parking space hereinafter set forth.
   D.   All off-street parking space, whether provided in accordance with the
provisions of this Title, or in accordance with the provisions of any former
ordinance, shall be maintained as hereinafter required.
   E.   Parking and loading spaces for all types of uses may be provided either
in garages or parking areas conforming with the provisions of this Title.
   F.   Parking may be with or without charge.
   G.   Vehicles, including but not limited to, recreational type vehicles,
such as camping trucks, trucks, or trailers, shall not be parked in any front
yard, except upon a regularly constructed residential driveway. However, upon
notification to the Herscher Police Department, owners of recreational-type
vehicles may park their vehicle in their front yard for a period not to exceed
forty eight (48) hours for loading and unloading. Recreational- type vehicles
may be parked to the rear or side of the principal building.
   H.   Any application for a building permit or for an occupancy certificate
where no building permit is required, shall include therewith a plot plan drawn
to scale and fully dimensioned showing any off-street parking or loading
facilities to be provided in compliance with this Title.
10-10-1-3: LOCATION:
Off-street parking space shall be located on the same lot as the use for which
provided, except as set forth herein.
   A.   Municipally owned property.
   B.   Special Location Plan: Pursuant to the procedure hereinafter set forth,
either part or all of the required off-street parking space may be located off
the lot of the use for which the space is provided. Also, two (2) or more uses
may share the same off-street parking space and each of such uses may be
considered as having provided such shared space individually. The following
limitations shall apply to the "special location plan."
      1.   Separate From Use: Off-street parking shall be located as
hereinafter specified, where a distance is specified, such distance shall be
the walking distance measured from the nearest point of the parking facility to
the nearest point of the building that such facility is required to serve.
         a.   In all residential districts, parking facilities shall be located
on the same lot or lots with the building they are required to serve, except
that trucks with an empty weight of seven thousand (7,000) pounds or more or
exceeding ninety (90) inches in height are prohibited.
         b.   In the C2-Commercial District and Industrial District, parking
facilities shall be located within three hundred (300) feet of the building
they are required to serve.
      2.   Sharing Of Space: No use shall be considered as individually having
provided off-street parking space which is shared with one or more other uses
unless the schedules of operation of all such uses are such that none of the
uses sharing the space require the off-street parking at the same time as any
other use sharing the space.
      3.   Application: All applications for approval of a special plan
hereunder shall be filed with the Zoning Official by the owners of the entire
land area to be included with the spatial plan, the owner or owners of all
structures then existing on said land area and all encumbrances of said land
area and structures; shall contain sufficient evidence to establish to the
satisfaction of the Zoning Official that the applicants are the owners and
encumbrancers of the designated land and structures; shall contain such
information and representations required by the Title or deemed necessary; and
shall include plans showing the following details:
         a.   The location of the uses or structures for which off-street
parking space is required.
         b.   The location at which the off-street parking space is to be
located.
      4.   Procedure:
         a.   All applicants shall be reviewed and approved by the Zoning
Official. Any approval may establish necessary conditions and limitations.
         b.   Upon approval of such special location plans, a copy of such plan
shall be registered and recorded with the Kankakee County Recorder of Deeds.
         c.   All special plans recorded hereunder shall be binding upon the
applicants for such special location plan, their successors and assigns, shall
limit and control the issuance and validity of all zoning permits and zoning
certificates and shall restrict and limit the use and operation of all land and
structures included within such special location plans to all conditions and
limitations specified in such plans and approvals thereof.
         d.   All special plans registered and recorded hereunder may be
amended pursuant to the same procedures and subject to the limitations and
requirements by which such plans were approved, registered, and recorded.
10-10-1-4: SEPARATE OR COMBINED SPACE:
Separate off-street parking space shall be provided for each use or the parking
space required of two (2) or more uses located on the same lot may be combined
and used jointly; provided, however:
   A.   Where off-street parking is combined and used jointly by two (2) or
more uses having different standards for determining the amount of off-street
parking required, the parking space shall be adequate in area to provide the
sum total of off-street parking requirements of all such uses, unless it can be
demonstrated that the schedules of operation are such that [text missing].
   B.   Where off-street parking space is combined and used jointly by two (2)
or more uses having the same standard for determining the amount of off-street
parking space required, all such uses, for the purpose of this Section 10-10-1-
4, shall be considered a single unit, and the gross floor area of all such uses
in all structures on the same lot and the number of employees of all such uses
in all structures on the same lot as fixed by the applicable standard shall be
taken as a single total for the purpose of determining the amount of off-
street parking space required.
10-10-1-5: DESIGN, DEVELOPMENT, AND MAINTENANCE:
Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public or private parking area,
including commercial parking lot, and also, an automobile or trailer sales lot,
shall be designed, developed, and maintained in accordance with the following
requirements:
   A.   The plan for the design of parking lots or areas shall be subject to
approval of the Village Engineer, in accordance with standards and requirements
noted herein.
   B.   Shall not be used for sale, repair, dismantling, or serving of any
vehicles, equipment, materials, or supplies, except when parking is a permitted
principal or conditional use.
   C.   Shall be graded for proper drainage and provided with bituminous
asphalt or concrete material capable of carrying a wheel load of four thousand
(4,000) pounds maintained at all times in such a manner as to prevent the
release of dust and to be free of dust, trash, and debris.
   D.   Off-street parking areas for four (4) or more vehicles that adjoin or
are across the street from property zoned for any residential use shall have a
dense evergreen planting, fence, masonry wall, and/or such other screening in
accordance with guidelines of Section
10-3-6 of this Title.
   E.   Shall be provided with entrances and exits not less than twelve (12)
feet in width for each direction of traffic and so located as to minimize
traffic congestion, except on residential lots each off-street parking space
shall open directly upon an aisle or driveway at least twelve (12) feet wide
for each direction of traffic or such additional width and design as to provide
safe and efficient means of vehicular access to such parking space. All off-
street parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular
access to a street or alley in a manner which will least interfere with
vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   F.   Shall be provided with wheel guards or bumper guards or curbing along
perimeter parking so located that not part of the parked vehicle will extend
beyond the parking area.
   G.   Except for parallel parking spaces, each required off-street parking
space shall be at least nine (9) feet in width and at least twenty (20) feet in
length, exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns, of office or work
space. Such space shall have a vertical clearance of at least seven (7) feet
and shall be measured at right angles to the axis of the vehicle. For parallel
parking, the length of the parking space shall be increased to twenty four (24)
feet; an overhang over bumper guards, wheel guards, curbing or paving of two
(2) feet shall be allowed to be counted towards the required twenty (20) foot
length of parking spaces. In such cases, walks or green spaces that are covered
by the two (2) feet of overhang shall be required to have an additional two (2)
feet of width.
   H.   At points of ingress and egress into roads for off-street parking, no
structure, parked vehicle, sign or plant material shall obstruct a clear path
of motor vehicle driver's vision of approaching vehicles within a triangular
square determined by a diagonal line connecting two (2) points measured seventy
five (75) feet equidistant from the point of intersection with the centerline
of the road and the points of ingress and egress.
   I.   Off-street parking areas other than driveways shall not be located in
the required front yards, except through the provision of landscaping shown in
an approved landscape plan that shows adequate screening to be provided. A
minimum of fifteen (15) feet of landscaping in the front yard shall be provided
in all commercial and industrial districts. Reduction in the depth of
landscaping may be permitted as a special use if adequate provisions for
landscaping can be demonstrated.
   J.   All open vehicle parking areas containing more than twelve (12)
contiguous and adjacent parking spaces shall be effectively screened in
accordance with the guidelines noted in Section
10-3-6 of this Title.
   K.   Parking for the handicapped shall be provided at a size, number, and
location as specified by State and Federal regulations.
   L.   No pavement or curbing shall be located closer than two (2) feet from
any property line unless it can be specifically demonstrated that the intent is
to extend the parking to adjoining properties. A plan must be submitted and
approved during the review process which shows how the extension of parking
will occur.
   M.   Driveways for single-family homes shall not be less than nine (9) feet
in width nor more than thirty (30) feet in width. The maximum width of curb
cuts for single-family home driveways shall be thirty (30) feet. No more than
fifty percent (50%) of the area in front of the building setback line of a
single-family home may be covered by pavement, unless a circle drive is
utilized. No more than thirty percent (30%) of the area in front of the
building setback line of a single-family home in the A-1 Zoning District may be
covered by pavement, regardless of whether or not a circle drive is utilized.
Circle drives may be utilized only where adequate lot width is available on
lots fronting on heavily traveled roadways or other special cases, as
determined to be beneficial to traffic safety, aesthetics or other important
considerations, by the Zoning Official. Site plans drawn to scale delineating
circle driveway configuration shall be submitted to the Zoning Official as part
of a request to obtain approval for a circle drive. Where a driveway leads to a
garage, the width of the driveway shall not exceed the width of the garage.
10-10-1-6: UNITS OF MEASUREMENT:
For purposes of this Section, the following units of measurement shall apply:
   A.   Floor Area: "Floor area" shall mean the gross floor area taken from the
outside wall of the building.
   B.   Dwelling Unit: A dwelling unit shall mean one room, or a suite of two
(2) or more rooms, designed for or used by one family for living and sleeping
purposes and having only one kitchen or kitchenette.
   C.   Seat Or Bench: A seat shall be the space intended for an individual; in
places where patrons or spectators occupy benches, pews, or other seating
facilities, each twenty (20) inches of such seating facilities shall be counted
as one seat.
   D.   Employees: Employees shall mean the maximum number of permanent staff
members working on the premises at any one time.
   E.   Fractions: When units of measurement result in the requirement of a
fractional space, any fraction shall require one parking space
10-10-2: OFF-STREET PARKING TABLE:
Parking Class Uses: (Permitted or Special) Required Spaces
Parking Uses: (Permitted or       Required Spaces
Class   Special)
Class   a. Dwelling, single-
#1      family                    2 per dwelling unit
        b. Dwelling, two-family
Class   a. Dwelling, multi-family 2 per dwelling unit plus additional parking as determined by the Village
#2                                Board
        a. Convalescent home,
        extended care facilities
        or rest home, nursing
Class   home and home for the
#3      aged                      1 per each two beds, plus 1 per each two employees
        b. Institutional uses
        c. Group homes
        d. Parsonage, rectory, or
        parish house
Class   a. Medical, dental and    2 per each office or examination room plus one per employee
#4      optical clinics
        a. Library, museum, or
        other public or quasi-
Class   public uses, unless
#5      otherwise specified in    3 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
        this Chapter
        b. Philanthropic and
        charitable institutions
        a. Post office
        b. Recreational and
        community center
        buildings
Class   c. Professional office
#6      establishments, unless    4 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
        otherwise specified
        d. Personal service
        establishments, unless
        otherwise specified in
        this Chapter
        a. Business service
        establishments, unless
        otherwise specified in
Class   this Chapter
#7      b. Retail businesses      6 per 1,000 square feet of floor area
        which supply commodities
        on the premises, unless
        otherwise specified in
        this Chapter
Class   a. Nursery schools        1 per each employee plus 1 per each 3 classrooms
#8      b. Elementary schools
Class   a. High schools and       1 space per each employee plus 1 space per each 4 students based on the
#9      senior high schools       maximum number in accordance with design capacity
        a. Commercial or trade
Class   schools                   1 space per each 2 employees plus 1 space per each 2 students
#10     b. Music or dance schools
        c. Business schools
Class   a. Cocktail lounges
#11     b. Restaurants            10 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
        c. Taverns
        a. Auction halls
        b. Auditoriums and
        auditoriums as accessory
Class   to churches, school and
#12     other institutional uses  1 space per 5 seats or 90 lineal inches of seating
        c. Churches, temples, and
        synagogues
        d. Convention halls or
        exhibition halls
Class   a. Greenhouses and        1 space per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area plus 1 space per 2,000
#13     nurseries, retail         square feet of gross land area
        b. Golf driving ranges
        a. Golf courses
Class   b. Pitch and putt golf    100 spaces per 9 holes (regular golf) or 40 spaces per 9 holes (par “3"
#14     courses                   courses)
        c. Par “3" golf courses
        a. Athletic fields
        b. Grounds of
Class   recreational clubs,       1 space per 5,000 square feet of gross land area
#15     noncommercial
        c. Public parks and
        playgrounds
        a. Swimming pools
        b. Skating rinks          1 space per 2 persons based on the maximum number of persons that can be
Class   c. Dance halls            accommodated at the same time in accordance with such design capacity and
#16     d. Tennis courts and      1 space per each 2 employees
        clubs
        e. Bowling alleys
Class   a. Indoor theaters        1 space per each 4 seats
#17
Class   a. Drive-in banking       Reservoir space sufficient to accommodate a number of automobiles equal
#18     facility                  to 5 times the number of teller windows
Class   a. Automobile laundry     1 space per employee plus parking spaces equal to 5 times the maximum
#19     (mechanical)              capacity of the auto washing unit
        a. Garage for the
        storage, servicing and
        repair of motor vehicles
        including body repair,
        painting and engine
        rebuilding
        b. Mobile home display
        and sales and service
Class   c. Model garage and       5 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area plus 1 space per 2,000 square
#20     display and sales         feet of land area
        d. Motorcycle, bicycle,
        and other outdoor
        recreational vehicle
        sales, rental and service
        e. Trailer, boat, and
        camper or camper-trailer
        sales, rental and service
        f. Motor vehicle sales
        and service
Class   a. Auto service station   1 space per each pump island plus 2 spaces per each stall plus 1 space
#21                               per employee
        a. Industrial type uses
        and wholesale and
Class   warehouse uses, as        1 space per each employee
#22     defined in Chapter 7 of
        this Title
        b. Sewer treatment plants
        a. Amusement parks and
        similar establishments
        b. Billiard and pool
        halls
Class   c. Indoor amusements,     3 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area plus 3 spaces per
#23     including indoor archery, 1,000 square feet of gross land area
        rifle range and shooting
        gallery
        d. Kiddie parks
        e. Miniature golf
Class   a. Special uses not       Spaces as required by the Village Board after review by the Planning
#24     specified above           Commission
 
10-10-3: OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE:
10-10-3-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location: All required loading berths shall be located on the same
zoning lot as the use served. All motor vehicle loading berths which abut a
residential district from a commercial or industrial district shall be
completely screened therefrom by building walls or by a uniform solid fence,
wall, or door, or densely-planted, mature shrubbery or any combination thereof,
not less than five (5) feet in height. No permitted or required loading berth
shall be located within thirty (30) feet of the nearest point of intersection
of any two (2) streets. No loading berth shall be located in a required front
or side yard, and any loading berth located in a required rear yard may be open
to the sky. No pavement or curbing shall be located closer than two (2) feet
from any property line unless it can be specifically demonstrated that the
intent is to extend the loading to adjoining properties. A plan must be
submitted and approved during the review process which shows how the extension
of loading will occur.
   B.   Size: Unless otherwise specified, a required off-street loading berth
shall be at least twelve (12) feet in width by at least forty (40) feet in
length, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space, and shall have a vertical
clearance of at least fifteen (15) feet.
   C.   Access: Each required off-street loading berth shall be designated with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movement, and shall be subject to approval by
the Zoning Official.
   D.   Surfacing: All open, off-street loading berths shall be surfaced with a
bituminous asphalt or concrete material capable of bearing a live load of two
hundred (200) pounds per square foot.
   E.   Repair And Service:
      1.   Residence Districts: No motor vehicle repair work or service of any
kind shall be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in any
residence district.
      2.   Commercial Districts: No motor vehicle repair of any kind shall be
permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in commercial
districts, except emergency repair service necessary to start vehicles.
      3.   Industrial Districts: No motor vehicle repair work or service of any
kind shall be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in an
industrial district if such loading facilities are within five hundred (500)
feet of a residence district. Washing of accessory vehicles and emergency
service required to start vehicles shall be permitted.
   F.   Utilization: Space allocated for off-street loading use shall not,
while so allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off-
street parking facilities or portions thereof.
   G.   Central Loading: Central loading facilities may be substituted for
loading berths on the individual zoning lots provided the following conditions
are fulfilled:
      1.   Each zoning lot serviced shall have direct access to the central
loading area without cross streets or alley at-grade.
      2.   Total off-street loading berths provided shall meet the minimum
requirements herein specified based on the sum of the several types of uses
served. (Areas of types of uses may be totaled before computing number of
loading berths.)
      3.   No zoning lot served shall be more than five hundred (500) feet
removed from the central loading area.
      4.   The tunnel or ramp connecting the central loading area with the
zoning lot served shall not be less than seven (7) feet in width and have a
clearance of not less than seven (7) feet.
   H.   Minimum Facilities: Uses for which off-street loading facilities are
required herein, but which are located in buildings of less floor area than the
minimum prescribed for such required facilities, shall be provided with
adequate receiving facilities accessible by motor vehicle off any adjacent
alley, service, drive, or open space on the same lot.
10-10-3-2: SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Residence Districts: Off-street loading facilities accessory to uses
allowed in the residence districts shall be provided in accordance with the
following minimum requirements:
      1.   For the uses listed hereunder, one loading berth shall be provided
for buildings containing 10,000 to 100,000 square feet of gross floor area,
plus one additional loading berth for each additional 100,000 square feet of
gross floor area or fraction thereof.
         a.   Educational and cultural institutions.
         b.   Philanthropic and cultural institutions.
         c.   Religious institutions.
      2.   Planned Development, Residential: Loading berths shall be provided
on the basis of the required berths of each individual use.
      3.   Recreational And Social Facilities: For buildings containing 10,000
to 100,000 square feet of gross floor area, one loading berth shall be
provided, and for each additional 100,000 square feet of gross floor area up to
500,000 square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof in excess of
500,000 square feet.
      4.   For all other nonresidential uses, loading facilities shall be
provided in accordance with the following requirements:
         a.   For buildings containing 10,000 to 100,000 square feet of gross
floor area, there shall be provided on the same zoning lot, adequate receiving
facilities, accessible by motor vehicle, off any adjacent alley, service drive,
or open space.
         b.   For buildings containing 10,000 to 100,000 square feet of gross
floor area, two (2) off-street loading berths shall be provided.
         c.   For buildings containing over 100,000 square feet of gross floor
area, there shall be provided one loading berth for each 100,000 square feet of
gross floor area or fraction thereof.
   B.   Commercial Districts: Off-street loading spaces accessory to uses
permitted in the commercial districts shall be provided in accordance with the
following minimum requirements:
      1.   Any use listed in a residence district that also is permitted in any
of the commercial districts shall provide loading spaces as established for
that use in the preceding section for residence districts.
      2.   Establishments containing less than 7,000 square feet of gross floor
area shall be provided with adequate facilities, accessible by motor vehicle,
off any adjacent alley, service drive, or open space on the same zoning lot.
      3.   For the uses listed hereunder, one loading berth shall be provided
for buildings containing 7,000 to 40,000 square feet of gross floor area. For
buildings containing 40,000 to 100,000 square feet of gross floor area, two (2)
loading berths shall be provided, plus one additional loading berth for each
additional 100,000 square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof. Each
such loading berth for buildings in excess of 100,000 square feet of gross
floor area shall not be less than twelve (12) feet in width by fifty five (55)
feet in length.
         a.   Cartage and express facilities.
         b.   Mail order houses.
         c.   Printing and publishing.
         d.   Restricted production and repair.
         e.   Warehousing, storage, and wholesale establishments.
      4.   For the uses listed hereunder, one loading berth shall be provided
for buildings containing up to 100,000 square feet of gross floor area for each
additional 100,000 square feet of gross floor area up to 500,000 square feet,
one additional loading berth shall be provided, plus one additional loading
berth for each 50,000 square feet of gross floor area or fraction in excess of
500,000 feet.
         a.   Banks and financial institutions.
         b.   Medical and dental clinics.
         c.   Offices, business, professional and governmental.
         d.   Recreation buildings and community centers, noncommercial.
      5.   For the uses listed hereunder, one loading berth shall be provided
for buildings containing up to 100,000 square feet of gross floor area, plus
one additional loading berth for each additional 150,000 feet of gross floor
area or fraction thereof. For buildings [text missing]. Each such loading berth
for buildings in excess of 20,000 square feet of gross floor area shall not be
less than twelve (12) feet in width by fifty five (55) feet in length.
         a.   Clubs or lodges (not-for-profit), containing retail shops,
auditoriums, exhibition halls, or business or professional offices (other than
accessory).
         b.   Convention halls.
         c.   Exhibition halls.
      6.   For the uses listed hereunder, one loading berth shall be provided
for buildings containing up to 150,000 square feet of gross floor area, plus
one additional loading berth for each additional 200,000 square feet of gross
floor area or fraction thereof.
         a.   Amusement Establishments: Bowling alleys, swimming pools, and
skating rinks. For buildings containing 10,000 square feet of gross floor area,
one loading berth shall be provided, plus one additional loading berth for each
additional 100,000 square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof.
         b.   Clubs and lodges (not-for-profit), containing no retail shops,
convention halls, auditoriums, exhibition halls or business or professional
offices (other than accessory).
         c.   Meeting halls.
         d.   Parking Lots And Garages: There shall not be requirements for
off-street loading.
         e.   Schools: Music, dance, business, and trade.
         f.   Theaters, indoor.
         g.   Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors.
         h.   For all other uses, loading facilities shall be provided in
accordance with the following schedule:
 
Gross Floor Area of Establishments in Required Number and Size of Berths
Thousand of Square Feet
7 to 60                               1-(12 ft. x 30 ft.)
61 to 100                             2-(12 ft. x 30 ft. each)
For each additional 200,000 square feet in gross floor area or fraction
thereof over 100,000 square feet of gross floor area, one additional
loading berth shall be provided, such additional berth to be at least 12
feet in width by 55 feet in length
 
   C.   Industrial District: Off-street loading facilities accessory to uses
allowed in the industrial district shall be provided in accordance with the
following minimum requirements:
      1.   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair, or
storage of materials, goods, or products: For buildings containing up to 40,000
square feet of gross floor area, one loading berth shall be provided. For
buildings containing 40,000 to 100,000 square feet of gross floor area, two (2)
loading berths shall be provided, plus one additional loading berth for each
additional 100,000 square feet of floor area or fraction thereof. Each such
loading berth for buildings in excess of 10,000 square feet of gross floor area
shall be not less than twelve (12) feet in width by fifty five (55) feet in
length.
      2.   For uses listed hereunder, one loading berth shall be provided for
buildings up to 100,000 square feet of gross floor area. For each additional
100,000 square feet of gross floor area up to 500,000 square feet, one
additional loading berth shall be provided, plus one additional loading berth
for each additional 500,000 square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof
in excess of 500,000 square feet.
         a.   Medical and dental clinics.
         b.   Recreational buildings or community centers.
      3.   Motor Freight Terminals: For buildings containing 5,000 to 40,000
square feet of gross floor area, one loading berth shall be provided. For
buildings containing 40,000 to 100,000 square feet of gross floor area, two (2)
loading berths shall be provided, plus one additional loading berth for each
additional 100,000 square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof. Each
such loading berth for buildings in excess of 10,000 square feet of gross floor
area shall be not less than twelve (12) feet by fifty five (55) feet in length.
      4.   Planned Developments, Industrial: Loading berths shall be provided
on the basis of the required berths for each individual use.
      5.   For all other uses, loading facilities shall be provided in
accordance with the following schedule:
 
Gross Floor Area of Establishments in Required Number and Size of Berths
Thousand of Square Feet
7 to 40                               1-(12 ft. x 30 ft.)
41 to 100                             2-(12 ft. x 30 ft. each)
For each additional 200,000 square feet in gross floor area or fraction
thereof over 100,000 square feet of gross floor area, one additional
loading berth shall be provided, such additional berth to be at least 12
feet in width by 55 feet in length
 
CHAPTER 11
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose
10-11-2: Types Of Signs Classified
10-11-3: Permitted Locations
10-11-4: Permits And Fees Required
10-11-5: Nonconforming Signs
10-11-6: General Standards
10-11-7: Sign Provisions
10-11-7-1: All Districts
10-11-7-2: Residential Districts
10-11-7-3: Commercial Districts
10-11-7-4: Industrial District
10-11-7-5: Special Use Permits
10-11-7-6: Agriculture Districts
10-11-1: PURPOSE:
There is a significant relationship between the manner in which signs are
displayed and public safety, and the stability of the economic value of
adjoining property. The reasonable display of signs is necessary as a public
service and to the conduct of competitive commerce and industry. The
regulations in this Chapter establish minimum standards for the display of
signs in direct relationship to the functional use of property and to the
intensity of development as permitted within the zoning districts which are
provided in this Title.
10-11-2: TYPES OF SIGN CLASSIFIED:
For the purpose of this Title, signs are classified according to their function
as follows:
   A.   Ground sign.
   B.   Wall sign.
   C.   Roof sign.
   D.   Projecting sign.
   E.   Advertising sign (billboard).
   F.   Pole sign.
10-11-3: PERMITTED LOCATIONS:
No sign shall be permitted unless it is in compliance with the requirements of
this Chapter and the requirements of the zoning district in which the sign is
located.
10-11-4: PERMITS AND FEES REQUIRED:
Permits are issued by the Zoning Official and are required for all signs. Fees
for sign permits are established by the Village Board.
10-11-5: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
Any sign or sign structure lawfully existing or under construction at the time
of the adoption of this Title, or of a later amendment, but whose location or
use does not conform with that required or permitted in the regulations herein,
shall be known as nonconforming. Nonconforming signs shall be registered with
the Zoning Official.
   A.   Unsafe And Unlawful Signs: If the Zoning Official shall find that any
sign is unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the public, or has been
constructed or erected or is being maintained in violation of the provisions of
this Chapter, he shall give written notice to the person to whom the zoning
certificate has been issued. If he fails to remove or alter the sign so as to
comply with the standards herein set forth within ten (10) days after such
notice, such sign may be removed or altered to comply with the Zoning Official
at the expense of the zoning certificate issuee or owner of the property upon
which it is located. The Zoning Official shall refuse to issue a zoning
certificate to any such party or owner who refuses to pay costs so assessed.
The Zoning Official may cause any sign which is an immediate peril to property
to be removed summarily and without notice.
   B.   Maintenance And Repair: Every sign, including, but not limited to,
those signs for which no permits or permit fees are required, shall be
maintained in a safe, presentable and good structural material condition at all
times, including the replacement of defective parts, painting, cleaning and
other acts required for the maintenance of said sign. The Zoning Official shall
require compliance with all standards of this Code. If the sign is not made to
comply with adequate safety standards, the Zoning Official shall require its
removal in accordance with this Chapter.
   C.   Removal Of Obsolete Signs: Any sign which does not advertise a bona
fide business conducted or a product sold, shall be taken down and removed by
the owner, agent or property owner upon which said sign may be found within ten
(10) days after written notification from the Zoning Official. Upon failure to
comply with such notice within the time specified in such order, the Zoning
Official may cause removal of such sign, and any expense incidental thereto
shall be paid by the owner of the property to which such a sign is attached.
   D.   Alterations: No display sign or outdoor device shall be altered,
rebuilt, enlarged, extended or relocated, except in conformity with the
provisions of this Title, the repainting, changing of parts and preventative
maintenance of signs shall not be deemed to be alterations if performed by the
sign permit holder.
10-11-6: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   No sign shall block any required accessway or window.
   B.   Signs advertising the premises for sale or lease may be permitted, not
to exceed sixteen (16) square feet, except as provided in each district.
   C.   Signs advertising acreage of over twenty (20) acres for sale or lease
shall be permitted on the premises, not to exceed thirty two (32) square feet.
   D.   No sign shall be attached to a tree, utility pole or existing sign.
   E.   No handbill shall be attached to any structure unless it is part of a
permitted sign.
   F.   The following signs are exempt from the regulations of this Section,
except as provided in subsections A. and D. herein:
      1.   Memorial signs and tablet displays on private property, not
exceeding six (6) square feet in area.
      2.   Address numerals and signs not exceeding two (2) square feet in area
and bearing the names of the occupants of the premises.
      3.   Governmental flags, insignia and signs when not used for commercial
purposes.
      4.   Legal notices.
      5.   Governmental traffic and parking signs.
10-11-7: SIGN PROVISIONS:
10-11-7-1: ALL DISTRICTS:
In all districts, unless otherwise noted, the following signs are permitted in
accordance with the regulations set forth herein:
   A.   Sign Projections:
      1.   No sign shall project beyond the property line into the public way,
except for signs installed by public governmental agencies and except within
the C-1 Traditional Downtown District.
      2.   No sign shall project beyond the property line into another
property, unless proper easements or agreements are in place to allow this to
occur.
   B.   Highway and directional signs subject to the following:
      1.   All signs shall be made and installed in accordance with the
specifications of the Village, Kankakee County or the Illinois Department of
Transportation.
      2.   Only signs permitted shall be signs announcing the location of, or
directing traffic to, given locations which include, but are not limited to the
following:
         a.   Service areas for automobiles, food, lodging or camping.
         b.   Public and quasi-public areas.
         c.   Business districts.
   C.   Signs accessory to parking area, subject to the following:
      1.   Area And Number: Signs designating parking area entrances or exits
are limited to one sign for each such exit or entrance and to a maximum size of
four (4) square feet each.
      2.   Height: No sign shall project higher than ten feet (10) above the
established average grade of the parking area.
   D.   In cases where residential and commercial zoning area adjacent to each
other, no sign shall show toward or be directly visible from the adjacent
residential district.
   E.   Temporary Mobile Signs: In all commercial and industrial districts, the
use of one mobile sign shall be permitted and limited to no more than twenty
one (21) days in a year on the same premises. Each use shall be subject to a
permit. Each sign shall be subject to all applicable regulations within each
district.
10-11-7-2: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
In all residential districts the following classes of signs are permitted in
accordance with the regulations set forth herein:
   A.   Nonflashing, nonillumination accessory signs.
      1.   Name plates and identification signs, subject to the following:
         a.   Area:
            (1)   For one- and two-family dwellings, there shall be not more
than one name plate, not exceeding two (2) square feet in area for each
dwelling unit indicating the name or address of the occupant or a permitted
occupation.
            (2)   For multi-family dwellings, apartments and for buildings
other than dwellings, a single identification sign not exceeding twelve (12)
square feet in area may be displayed.
            (3)   In connection with the construction or remodeling of a
building there shall be permitted one sign not exceeding thirty two (32) square
feet in area, on corner lots two (2) such signs may be permitted. All signs
shall be removed within two (2) weeks after occupancy permits are granted for
the structure indicated.
         b.   Height: No sign shall project higher than ten (10) feet above
ground level.
         c.   Location: No sign shall be located closer to the adjoining street
than one-half (1/2) of the required setback distance.
      2.   For sale and rent signs, subject to the following:
         a.   Area And Number: There shall not be more than one such sign per
zoning lot, except that on a corner lot, two (2) signs, one facing each street
shall be permitted. No sign shall exceed nine (9) square feet in area.
         b.   Location: No sign shall be located closer to the adjoining street
than one-half (1/2) of the required setback distance.
         c.   Height: No sign shall project higher than five (5) feet above the
ground level.
   B.   Nonflashing signs, church bulletins, subject to the following.
      1.   Area And Number: There shall be not more than one sign per zoning
lot, except that on a comer lot two (2) signs, one facing each street shall be
permitted. No sign shall exceed forty eight (48) square feet in area.
      2.   Location: No sign shall be located closer than one-half (1/2) of the
required setback distance to any street.
      3.   Height: No sign shall project higher than twelve (12) feet above the
ground level.
10-11-7-3: COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
All signs on a zoning lot shall conform to a homogenous signage system which
has been submitted to the Village at the time of erection of the first sign on
the lot. In all commercial districts, the following signs shall be permitted on
a zoning lot, subject to the requirements set forth herein:
   A.   On ground or pole sign subject to the following:
      1.   Area: No sign shall have a surface area exceeding thirty two (32)
square feet per face, to a maximum of sixty four (64) square feet, including
all sides and faces of the sign. The sign post or other material used to
support the sign shall not be included in the calculation for sign area.
However, any attached or support that could appear to function as signage shall
be included in the calculation for sign area, as determined by the Zoning
Official.
      2.   Height: No part of any sign or standard shall exceed a height
greater than twenty (20) feet above the grade at the sign base. Where the sign
is placed at the top or side of a berm, the height of the sign shall be
determined from the base of the berm.
      3.   Illumination: No illuminated sign shall be of the flashing or
intermittent type, except devices denoting the time and temperature and
traveling messages. Traveling message unit devices denoting the time and
temperature and other information may be permitted.
      4.   Signage System: When multiple signs will be appropriate for a zoning
lot, all signs shall conform to a signage system which has been recorded with
the Village Zoning Official prior to the erection of the first sign on each
zoning lot.
      5.   No more than a total of one pole or ground sign per zoning lot shall
be permitted for individual establishments located within a building that
contains three (3) or more establishments.
      6.   No pole or ground sign shall be located closer than fifty (50) feet
to any other ground or pole sign.
   B.   Signs for integrated planned business developments in single ownership
and management or under unified control, subject to the following:
      1.   Area: No ground or pole sign shall have a surface area exceeding
sixty four (64) square feet per face, to a maximum of one hundred twenty eight
(128) square feet total, including all sides and faces of the sign. The sign
post or tower material used to support the sign shall not be included in the
calculation for sign area. However, any attachment or support that could appear
to function as signage shall be included in the calculation for sign area, as
determined by the Zoning Official. No more than one integrated planned business
development sign may be permitted on parcels less than two and one-half (2 1/2)
acres in area.
      2.   Height: No part of any sign or standard shall exceed a height
greater than twenty (20) feet above the grade at the sign base. Where the sign
is placed at the top or side of a berm, the height of the sign shall be
determined from the base of the berm.
      3.   Location: All signs shall be located entirely within the zoning lot
on which the use to which it pertains is located.
      4.   Illumination: No illumination sign shall be of the flashing or
intermittent type, except devices denoting time and temperature and traveling
messages. Traveling message unit devices denoting the time and temperature and
other information may be permitted. These message unit devices shall be
attached and subordinate to the permitted sign. Said devices shall be included
in the calculation for sign area. The message for these devices shall not flash
in an obtrusive manner or create a nuisance, as determined by the Zoning
Official. No rotating beam, beacon or illumination device resembling an
emergency light or public traffic signal shall be permitted.
      5.   Signage for individual establishments within the center may be
permitted on the integrated planned business development sign. However, signage
for individual establishments placed on said sign shall be included in the
calculation for the permitted area of the sign.
   C.   All On-Premises Signs are subject to the following:
      1.   Business Identification Sign: One individual business identification
sign shall be allowed for each separate individual business establishment
specifically to identify the name, location and nature of the business which
shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the area of the front face of any one
individual business establishment, or exceed sixty four (64) square feet in
area, whichever is less.
      2.   Area: The total gross area of a sign or signs on the front or rear
wall of a principal building shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the area
of the front face (including doors and windows) of the principal building, or
exceed sixty four (64) square feet in area, whichever is less. The gross area
of a sign or signs on a side wall of a principal building shall not exceed
twenty percent (20%) of the area of the side wall (including doors and windows)
of the principal building, or exceed sixty four (64) square feet in area,
whichever is less.
      3.   Location: The sign or signs may front on the front, side or rear
wall or walls of the principal building.
      4.   Projection: Signs suspended from any building shall not project more
than two and one-half (2 1/2) feet beyond the wall of the building. Its
location and arrangement shall be subject to approval by the Zoning Official.
      5.   Height: No sign shall project higher than fifteen (15) feet above
curb level, and in no case shall a sign project higher than four (4) feet above
the roof line. The bottom of such signs shall not be less than seven (7) feet
above the finished grade of the sidewalk.
      6.   Illumination: No illumination sign shall be of the flashing or
intermittent type, except devices denoting the time and temperature. Traveling
message unit devices denoting the time and temperature and other information
may be permitted. These message unit devices shall be attached and subordinate
to the permitted sign. Said devices shall be included in the calculation for
sign area. The messages on these devices shall not flash in an obtrusive manner
or create a nuisance, as determined by the Zoning Official. No rotating beam,
beacon or illumination device resembling an emergency light or public traffic
signal shall be permitted.
      7.   Signs On Marquees, Canopies And Awnings: Restrictions imposed
hereinafter on the projection of signs across property lines into the public
way shall not apply to signs located on marquees, or canopies; provided, that
any sign located on a marquee or canopy shall be affixed flat to the surface
thereof; and, further, no sign shall extend vertically or horizontally beyond
the limits of said marquee or canopy, except that individual, freestanding
letters may project to a height onto exceeding thirty (30) inches above the
same. Restrictions imposed herein on the projection of signs across property
lines into the public way shall not apply to signs located on awnings;
provided, that any sign located on an awning shall be affixed flat to the
surface thereof, shall be nonilluminated and nonflashing and shall indicate
only the name and address of the establishment on the premises. Further, no
such sign shall extend vertically or horizontally beyond the limits of said
awning.
      8.   Advertising signs (billboards) require a special use permit.
         a.   No advertising sign (billboard) shall be closer than one thousand
three hundred twenty (1,320) feet to another.
         b.   No advertising sign (billboard) shall be located within six
hundred (600) feet of any residential districts.
   D.   Signs Accessory To Automobile Service Stations: The following signs
accessory to automobile service stations are permitted.
      1.   Racks for the orderly display of cans of engine oil for convenience
in dispensing said oil may be located on or at the ends of pump islands (limit
of two (2) to each island).
      2.   Two (2) open, portable tire racks (not more than seven (7) feet in
height, including signs, and six (6) feet in length) on coasters for the
purpose of displaying new tires, shall be permitted for each gasoline or tire
service station.
      3.   Items for sale on the premises may be openly displayed within ten
(10) feet of the principal building. Products may be displayed under group
island canopies or between pumps within the area of the pump island base.
      4.   A sign may be painted on the inside and outside front face of the
enclosed tire rack, but shall not be painted on the sides or rear.
10-11-7-4: INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
In the industrial district, the following signs are permitted on a zoning lot,
subject to the requirements set forth hereinafter:
   A.   All signs permitted in the commercial districts.
   B.   Advertising sign (billboard) require a special use permit.
      1.   No advertising sign (billboard) shall be closer than one thousand
three hundred twenty (1,320) feet to another.
      2.   No advertising sign (billboard) shall be located within six hundred
(600) feet of any residential districts.
   C.   No illuminated signs shall be of the flashing or intermittent type.
10-11-7-5: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
It is recognized that from time to time signs will be needed to exceed the
standards set forth in the Chapter. Permits for such signs shall be treated as
a special use.
10-11-7-6: AGRICULTURE DISTRICTS:
In the Agriculture Districts, the following signs are permitted on a zoning
lot, and shall be treated as a special use, subject to the following
requirements as set forth hereinafter:
   A.   All signs permitted as provided for in Section
10-11-7-3A.
CHAPTER 12
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-12-1: Administrative Organization Of Title
10-12-2: Office Of Zoning Official
10-12-3: Office Of Village Clerk
10-12-4: Village Planning and Zoning Board
10-12-5: Village Board of Trustees
10-12-6: Zoning Certificates
10-12-7: Certificates of Occupancy
10-12-8: Variance
10-12-9: Appeals
10-12-10: Special Use Permits
10-12-11: Amendments
10-12-12: Notice Provisions
10-12-13: Temporary Permits
10-12-14: Fees
10-12-15: Penalties
10-12-16: Reversion
10-12-1: ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION OF TITLE:
The administration of this Title is vested in the following offices or
agencies:
The office of the Zoning Official (Section
10-12-2).
The office of the Village Clerk (Section
10-12-3).
The Village Planning and Zoning Board (Section
10-12-4).
The Village Board (Section
10-12-5).
10-12-2: OFFICE OF ZONING OFFICIAL:
   A.   The Zoning Official and his authorized organization personnel shall
administer and enforce this Title, and in addition thereto and in furtherance
of said authority, shall:
      1.   Issue all zoning certificates and make and maintain records thereof.
      2.   Issue all certificates of occupancy, and make and maintain records
thereof.
      3.   Issue "temporary permits" authorized by this Title.
      4.   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and land to determine
compliance with the Title and notify in writing the person responsible for any
violation found, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action
necessary to correct it.
      5.   Order the discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or
structures; removal of illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions,
alterations or structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being
done; or shall take any other action authorized by statute or by this Title to
ensure compliance with or to prevent violations of its provisions. Such order
may be appealed to the Village Planning and Zoning Board.
      6.   Prepare and cause to be published in a newspaper as a legal notice,
on or before March 31 of each year, maps showing the existing zoning uses,
divisions, restrictions, regulations and classifications in effect.
      7.   Maintain permanent and current records of this Title, including, but
not limited to, all maps, amendments, special use permits, planned unit
developments, variations, appeals, and applications thereof.
      8.   Advise all persons seeking zoning information of the existence of
official plans of the Village and the relationship of these plans to zoning.
      9.   Provide and maintain a source of public information relative to all
matters arising out of this Title.
      10.   Receive, file and forward to the Village Board (with copies to the
Village Planning and Zoning Board or Planning Commission where applicable) all
applications for amendments, special use permits, planned unit developments and
other matters on which the Village Board is required to pass under this Title.
      11.   Receive, file and forward to the Village Planning and Zoning Board
all applications for variations and other matters on which the Board is
required to pass under this Title.
      12.   Keep the Village Board advised on zoning activities.
      13.   Decide or make recommendations on all matters under this Title upon
which the Zoning Official is required to act.
10-12-3: OFFICE OF THE VILLAGE CLERK:
The Village Clerk and his/her authorized organizational personnel shall
administer that portion of this Title prescribing duties for the Village Clerk,
and shall:
   A.   Accept appeals filed in the Village Clerk's office and forward same to
the Village Planning and Zoning Board or Village Planning and Zoning Board for
appropriate action.
   B.   Maintain copies of this Title and the Official Zoning Map for reference
by the public.
10-12-4: VILLAGE PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD:
   A.   Creation Of Membership:
      1.   The word "Board" when used in this Section shall be construed to
mean the Village Planning and Zoning Board. The said Board shall consist of
seven (7) members appointed by the Village President and confirmed by the
members of the Village Board, and such members shall receive as compensation
ten dollars ($10.00) per meeting attended. No compensation shall be received
for meetings not attended.
      2.   The terms of all members of the Village Planning and Zoning Board
shall expire January 31, 2022. Subsequent to that date, the Village President
shall appoint a chairman to serve a four (4) year term, three (3) other members
to serve three (2) year terms and three (3) other members to serve four (4)
year terms. Said terms of all appointed members of the Village Planning and
Zoning Board shall begin immediately upon appointment and confirmation.
Thereafter, all appointments to the Village Planning and Zoning Board shall be
made by the Village President for terms of four (4) years in duration. However,
appointments made to replace vacancies upon the Village Planning and Zoning
Board shall be only for the unexpired term of the member whose place has become
vacant. All appointments to the Village Planning and Zoning Board made by the
Village President shall be confirmed by the Village Board.
      3.   The chairman of the Village Planning and Zoning Board shall remain
as chairman throughout his term and shall receive as compensation 10 dollars
($10.00) per meeting attended. No compensation shall be received for meetings
not attended. The chairman, subject to the approval of the members of the
Village Board shall have the power to remove any member of said Village
Planning and Zoning Board for cause. The Village Board may remove any member of
the Village Planning and Zoning Board for cause without concurrence of the
chairman of the Village Planning and Zoning Board if at least two-thirds (2/3)
of the membership of the Village Board vote for said removal.
   B.   Jurisdiction: The Village Planning and Zoning Board is hereby vested
with the following jurisdiction and authority.
      1.   To hear appeals and make recommendations to the Village Board any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning Official under
this Title.
      2.   To hear and make recommendations to the Village Board upon
application for variations from the terms provided in this Title in the manner
prescribed by, and subject to, the standards established herein.
      3.   To hear and make recommendations to the Village Board upon requests
for text amendments to this Title.
      4.   To receive all applications for special use and map amendments. The
Village Planning and Zoning Board shall be requested at the public hearings to
report, in writing, an evaluation of the proposed use with respect to
officially adopted plans of the Village. Such report shall be available for
public inspection at the public hearing.
      5.   To hear and make recommendations to the Village Board on all matters
as is required under this comprehensive amendment as prescribed by statute.
   C.   Meetings And Rules: All meetings of the Village Planning and Zoning
Board shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such times as the Board
may determine. Hearings shall be conducted by said Board or any member thereof
and shall be open to the public. Location of such hearings shall be in the
Village Hall or at a predesignated location to accommodate said hearings. Any
person may appear and testify at a hearing, either in person or by duly
authorized agent or attorney. The chairman, or in his absence, the acting
chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. The
Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member
upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and
shall also keep records of its hearings and other official actions. A copy of
every rule of regulation and every order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Board shall be filed immediately in the office of the
Zoning Official and shall be a public record. The Board shall adopt its own
rules and procedures, not in conflict with this comprehensive amendment or with
the applicable Illinois statutes, and may select or appoint such officers as it
deems necessary. In the performance of their duties, the Zoning Official and
the Village Planning and Zoning Board may incur such expenditures as may be
authorized by the Village Board.
10-12-5: VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
The Village Board shall establish the standards, procedures and contents of
this Title and shall reserve certain matters of final decision to itself.
Decisions of the Village Board shall be subject to judicial review as the law
may provide, and the jurisdiction of the Village Board shall be:
   A.   To decide variations, special uses, amendments (text).
   B.   To decide variations, special uses, amendments (map) and planned unit
developments after report by the Village Planning and Zoning Board.
   C.   To confirm appointments to the Village Planning and Zoning Board and
Village Planning and Zoning Board.
   D.   To decide all matters required by this Title.
   E.   To initiate comprehensive amendments to this Title.
10-12-6: ZONING CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Certificates Required: No building or structure shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, moved or structurally altered, nor shall
any excavation or grading be done without a building permit. No building
permit, and no other permit pertaining to the use of land, buildings or
structures, shall be issued by employees of the Village unless the proposed use
thereof complies with all the provisions of this Title, nor shall any such
permit be issued unless the application for such permit and the building permit
both have certified thereon under oath by the Zoning Official that the proposed
use is in compliance with the provisions of this Title. Any permit or zoning
certificate issued in conflict with the provisions of this Title shall be void.
   B.   Application: Every application for a building permit, which shall also
be deemed an application for a zoning certificate, shall be made in duplicate
in such a form as the Zoning Official may, from time to time, provide, and
shall include:
      1.   Plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual shape and
dimensions of the lot to be built upon; the sizes and locations on the lot of
buildings and structures already existing, if any; the location and dimensions
of all proposed off- street parking and loading spaces and access ways thereof;
and such other matters as the Zoning Official may deem necessary to determine
conformance with this Title.
      2.   Information describing the existing and proposed use of each
building and land area on the lot; the number of families or dwelling units
proposed to be accommodated, and such other matters as the Zoning Official may
deem necessary to determine conformance with this Title.
      3.   A certificate of a registered architect or a registered structural
engineer licensed by the State, if no architect or engineer is required,
affidavits of the owner and builder, that the proposed construction and the
proposed use thereof comply with all provisions of this Title, or stating the
extent of noncompliance.
      4.   Certificate by the Village Engineer, when applicable, that the
proposed construction development or building is in accordance with plans as
required under Chapter 3 of this Title and that the required performance bond
has been filed as well as the required permit.
   C.   Action By Zoning Official: Within fifteen (15) days after the receipt
of an application for a zoning certificate, the Zoning Official shall issue the
certificate; provided, all applicable provisions of this Title are complied
with, or the Zoning Official shall refuse to issue a zoning certificate and
shall advise the applicant in writing of the reasons for refusal. If the Zoning
Official fails to act within fifteen (15) days, the applicant may then file
with the Zoning Official a written demand, the applicant may treat the
application as denied and may appeal from such denial to the Village Planning
and Zoning Board in the manner and subject to the standard of Section
10-12-11 of the Chapter.
   D.   Period Of Validity: No building permit shall be valid for a period
longer than one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of its issuance, unless
the work authorized by it is substantially under way by the end of said period.
The Zoning Official may extend a building period for one (1) year for
commercial and industrial construction. Failure to complete construction in a
timely manner will result in a public hearing by the Village Planning and
Zoning Board, with the imposition of penalties as outlined in Section
10-12-16.
10-12-7: CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Required: No building or addition thereto, constructed
after the effective date of this Title, no addition to a previously existing
building, shall be occupied, no land vacant on the effective date of this
comprehensive amendment shall be used for any purpose, and no change in a use
of either land or building shall be made, until a certificate of occupancy has
been issued by the office of the Zoning Official. No such occupancy certificate
shall be issued unless it is certified by the Zoning Official that the proposed
use or occupancy complies with all the provisions of this Title. Every
certificate of occupancy shall state that the use or occupancy complies with
all the provisions of this Tile and any certificate of occupancy issued in
conflict with the provisions of this Title shall be void.
   B.   Application: Every application for a building permit shall also be
deemed an application for a certificate of occupancy. Where no building permit
is required, an application for a certificate of occupancy shall be made to the
Zoning Official in such form as he may from time to time provide.
   C.   Issuance: No certificate of occupancy for a building, structure or
portion thereof, constructed after the effective date of this Title shall be
issued until construction has been completed and the premises inspected and
certified to be in conformity with the plans and specification upon which the
building permit and certificate were based. Pending issuance of a regular
certificate, a temporary certificate may be issued, to be valid for a period of
six (6) months from its date, during the completion of any addition or during
partial occupancy of the premises. A certificate of occupancy shall be issued,
or written notice shall be given, to the applicant, stating the reasons why a
certificate cannot be issued, no later than two (2) working days after the
Zoning Official is notified in writing that the building or premises is ready
for occupancy.
   D.   Period Of Validity: No certificate of occupancy shall be valid for a
period longer than ninety (90) days from the date of its issuance, unless the
use or occupancy authorized by it shall have been established within such
period.
10-12-8: VARIANCE:
   A.   Authority: The Village Planning and Zoning Board, after a public
hearing, shall recommend to the Village Board any variance of the regulations
of this Title and only in cases where there are practical difficulties or
particular hardships in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
regulations of this Title relating to the use, construction or alterations of
buildings or structures or the use of land in harmony with their general
purpose and intent of the regulations where such Board makes findings of fact
in accordance with the standards hereinafter prescribed, and further, finds
that there are practical difficulties or particular hardships in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the regulations of this Title relating to the
use, construction, or alteration of buildings or structures on the use of land.
   B.   Application And Notice Of Hearing: An application for a variation shall
be filed in writing with the Zoning Official. The application shall contain
such information as the Zoning Board and Village Board may, by rule, require.
Notice of the time and place of such public hearing shall be published at least
once in the official newspaper, said publication to be made not more than
thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the date of the hearing.
   C.   The Village Planning and Zoning Board shall not recommend to vary the
provisions of this Title as authorized in this Section, unless it shall have
made findings based upon the evidence presented to it in the following cases:
      1.   That the property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
that zone.
      2.   That the plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances.
      3.   That the variation, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the neighborhood.
   D.   A variation shall be permitted only if the evidence, in the judgment of
the Village Planning and Zoning Board, sustains each of the three (3)
conditions enumerated above.
   E.   For the purpose of supplementing the above standards, the Village
Planning and Zoning Board, in making its recommendation whenever there are
practical difficulties or particular hardship shall also take into
consideration the extent to which the following facts, favorable to the
applicant, have been established by the evidence:
      1.   That the particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved will bring a particular hardship
upon the owner as distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the letter of the
regulations were carried out;
      2.   That the conditions upon which the petition for variation is based
would not be applicable generally to other property within the same zoning
classification;
      3.   That the purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a
desire to make more money out of the property;
      4.   That the alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by any
person presently having an interest in the property;
      5.   That the granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or unduly injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located; or
      6.   That the proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of
air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the danger of fire, or
otherwise endanger the public safety, or substantially diminish or impair
property values within the neighborhood.
   F.   The Village Planning and Zoning Board may require or recommend such
conditions and restrictions upon the premises benefitted by a variation as may
be necessary to comply with the standards set forth in this Section to reduce
or minimize the effect of such variation upon other property in the
neighborhood, and to implement the general purpose and intent of this Title.
   G.   Effective Period: No order of the Village Board granting a variation
shall be valid for a period longer than one hundred eighty (180) days from the
date of such order, unless a building permit is obtained within such period and
the erection or alteration of a building is started or the use is commenced
within such period. The Village Board may grant one extension of this period,
valid for no more than one hundred eighty (180) additional days, upon written
application and good cause shown, without notice or hearing. If any of the
benefits conferred by a variation, whether heretofore or hereafter granted, are
abandoned, or are not utilized for any continuous period of one year, said
variation shall, to the extent of such abandonment or lack of utilization,
become valid after a public hearing as provided herein.
   H.   Decisions: Not more than sixty (60) days after the close of the public
hearing, the Village Planning and Zoning Board shall make its findings of fact
and its recommendation, in writing, to the Village Board. The concurring vote
of four (4) members of the Board shall be necessary to grant a variation. The
Village Board may, through a motion passed by a majority. Shall affirm or
decline the recommendation.
   I.   In a decision regarding a variance, the Village Planning and Zoning
Board shall reach its decision within ninety (90) days from the date of filing
of the variance, or it shall be deemed to have been denied.
10-12-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Authority: The Village Planning and Zoning Board shall hear and make
recommendations to the Village Board appeals from an administrative order,
requirement or determination under this Title.
   B.   Scope Of Appeals: An appeal, in which it is alleged that there is error
in any decision made by the Zoning Official under this Title, may be taken to
the Village Planning and Zoning Board by any person or governmental agency
aggrieved by such decision or by any department, or officer of the Village.
Such an appeal shall be taken within such time as shall be prescribed by the
Board by rule, by filing with the Village Clerk a notice of appeal in such form
as the Board may provide by rule. The Village Clerk shall, without delay,
forward to the Board a copy of the notice of appeal together with all the
papers consulting the record upon which the decision appealed from was made.
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the decision appealed unless the Zoning Official certifies to
the Village Planning and Zoning Board after the notice of the appeal has been
filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay
would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case
the proceedings shall not be stayed unless by a restraining order, which may be
granted by the Board or by a court of record on application, on notice to the
Zoning Official and on due cause shown.
   D.   Hearing: The Village Planning and Zoning Board shall render a written
recommendation on the appeal within a reasonable time, but in no event more
than sixty (60) days after the closing of the public hearings, and shall
promptly forward a copy of the recommendation to the Village Board. The Village
Board may affirm or may reverse, wholly or in part, or modify the decision of
the Zoning Official, as in its opinion ought to be done, and to that end shall
have the powers of the Zoning Official. All decisions of the Village Board
shall, in all instances, be final administrative determinations and shall be
subject to judicial review only in accordance with applicable Illinois
statutes.
10-12-10: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Purpose: This Title is based upon the division of the Village into
districts, within which the use of land, and the uses of bulk of buildings and
structures, are substantially uniform. It is recognized, however, that there
are special uses which, because of their unique characteristics, can only be
properly classified in any particular district or districts upon consideration
in each case of the impact of those uses upon neighboring land and of the
public need for the particular use at the particular location. Such special
uses fall into three (3) categories:
      1.   Uses publicly operated or traditionally affected with a public
interest;
      2.   Uses entirely private in character, but of such an unusual nature
that their operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their
impact upon neighboring property, public facilities, or the Village as a whole;
and
      3.   Uses, either public or private, that because of past or present
conditions, need special consideration.
   B.   Authority: Special use permits shall be reviewed and heard by the
Village Planning and Zoning Board, but only in accordance with the requirements
hereinafter set forth. The Village Planning and Zoning Board shall make their
recommendations to the Village Board.
   C.   Application And Notice Of Hearing: An application for a special use
permit shall be filed in duplicate with the Zoning Official, who shall forward
a copy of the application to the Village Planning and Zoning Board. The
application shall be in such form, contain such information, and be accompanied
by such plans, as the Village Board, Village Planning and Zoning Board, or
Zoning Official may deem appropriate. Notice of the time and place of such
hearing shall be published at least once, not less than fifteen (15) nor more
than thirty (30) days, before the hearing, in a newspaper of general
circulation in the Village. The published notice may be supplemented by such
additional form of notice as the Board may provide by rule. The appellant shall
have notified all adjoining owners by certified letter, return receipt
requested, at least five (5) days prior to the hearing. The letter shall
indicate the time, place and date of the public hearing and give a description
of the request.
   D.   Standards:
      1.   The extent to which the proposed special use departs from the zoning
and subdivision regulations otherwise applicable to the subject property,
including but not limited to the density, dimensions, area, bulk, and uses, and
the reasons why such departures are deemed to be in the public interest.
      2.   In what respects the proposed special use meets the requirements and
standards of the special use regulations.
      3.   The method by which the proposed special use makes adequate
provision for public services, provides adequate control over vehicular
traffic, provides for and protects designated, common open space and furthers
the amenities of light and air, recreation and visual enjoyment.
      4.   The relationship and compatibility of the proposed special use to
adjacent properties and neighborhoods.
      5.   The desirability of the proposed special use to physical
development, tax base and economic well-being of the Village.
      6.   The conformity with the intent and spirit of the Comprehensive Plans
of the Village.
   E.   Recommendation By The Village Planning And Zoning Board: Within sixty
(60) days after the close of the hearing, unless the applicant shall have
consented to a longer period, the Village Planning and Zoning Board shall
transmit to the Village Board a written report giving its findings and
recommendations for special use permits issued, and on the restrictions to be
imposed upon the premises benefitted by the special use permit.
   F.   Standards: No special use permit may be granted unless:
      1.   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort or
general welfare.
      2.   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish and impair values within the neighborhood.
      3.   The establishment of the special use will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted
in the district.
      4.   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and/or other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided.
      5.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
      6.   The special use shall in all other respects conform to the
applicable regulation of the district in which it is located, except as such
regulations may in each instance be modified by the Village Board pursuant to
the recommendation of the Village Planning and Zoning Board.
      7.   At least one year has lapsed since any denial by the Village Board
of any prior application for a special use permit that would have authorized
substantially the same for all or part of the sites, unless it can be
determined that conditions in the areas have substantially changed to deem
reconsideration.
10-12-11: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority: The districts established by this Title may be amended from
time to time by the Village Board through the enactment of an amending
ordinance. No such amendment shall be made without a public hearing before the
Village Planning and Zoning Board and a report of findings and recommendations
submitted to the Village Board by the Village Planning and Zoning Board.
   B   Initiation: Amendments may be proposed by the Village Board, Village
Planning and Zoning Board, and by any other person, firm or corporation having
a freehold interest, a possessory interest entitled to exclusive possession, a
contractual interest which may become a freehold interest, an option to
purchase, or any exclusive possessory interest in which is specifically
enforceable on the land which is described in the application for an amendment.
No application for amendment to this Title shall be made which proposes
reclassification of any of the same property for the same zoning district that
has been subject of a public hearing held by the Village Planning and Zoning
Board within twelve (12) months preceding the date of filing.
   C.   Processing: The process for obtaining an amendment shall be as follows:
      1.   An application for an amendment shall be filed with the Zoning
Official and thereafter entered into the records of the first meeting
thereafter of the Village Board. The application shall be in such form as to
contain such information and be accompanied by such plans as the Village
Planning and Zoning Board and Village Board by rule may require.
      2.   A copy of such application shall thereafter be forwarded by the
Zoning Official to the Village Planning and Zoning Board with a request to hold
a public hearing.
      3.   The Village Planning and Zoning Board shall hold a public hearing
within ninety (90) days after receiving the application from the Zoning
Official. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published at
least once, not less than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30) days, before
the hearing, in a newspaper of general circulation in the Village. The
published notice may be supplemented by such additional form of notice as the
Village Planning and Zoning Board and Village Board may provide by rule. The
appellant shall have notified all adjoining owners by certified letter, return
receipt requested, at least five (5) days prior to the hearing. The letter
shall indicate the time, place and date of the public hearing and give a
description of the request.
      4.   The Village Planning and Zoning Board shall, within sixty (60) days
after the hearing, transmit a written report giving its findings and
recommendations to the Village Board.
      5.   Where the purpose and effect of the proposed amendment is to change
the zoning classification of particular property, the Village Planning and
Zoning Board shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to it in
each specified case with respect to the following matters:
         a.   Existing uses of property within the general area of the property
in question.
         b.   The zoning classification of property within the general area of
the property in question.
         c.   The suitability of the property in question for the use permitted
under the existing zoning classification.
         d.   The trend of development, if any, in the general area of the
property in question, including changes, if any, which may have taken place
since the day the property in question was placed in its present zoning
classification.
         e.   Conformance or nonconformance with officially adopted plans of
the Village.
         f.   The proposed amendment is in the public interest and is not
solely for the interest of the applicant.
   D.   Decisions: The Village Board, upon recommendation of the Village
Planning and Zoning Board, may grant or deny any proposed amendment in
accordance with applicable Illinois statutes, or may refer it back to the
Village Planning and Zoning Board for further consideration.
In cases of written protest against any proposed amendment, signed and
acknowledged by the owner of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to
be altered or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately
adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent
(20%) of the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered,
such amendment shall not be passed except by the favorable vote of five (5)
members of the Village Board.
   If no action is taken by the Village Board within six (6) months after the
report of the Village Planning and Zoning Board, the application shall be
deemed to have been denied and shall not thereafter be granted.
10-12-12: NOTICE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Notice Of Publication: Notice of the time and place of the hearing of
any proposed variation, special use, amendment, or planned development shall be
given by the Zoning Official not more than thirty (30) days nor less than
fifteen (15) days before the hearing by publishing such notice at least once in
one or more newspapers published in the Village or in general circulation
within the Village.
   B.   Contents of Notice: In each case where notice is required to be given
under this Section, such notice shall contain the following information:
      1.   Time and place of public hearing.
      2.   Common street address and legal description of subject property.
      3.   A brief statement setting forth the nature of the proposed
variation, special use, amendment, or planned development.
      4.   The name of each applicant.
   C.   Notice To Owners Of Nearby Property:
      1.   At the time of the filing of an application for any proposed
variation, special use, amendment or planned development, the applicant shall
furnish to the Zoning Official a complete list containing the names and
addresses of the owners of all property adjacent to or across from the subject
site. The public roads, streets, alleys, and other public ways shall be
excluded in determining this requirement. The property owners to be notified
shall be those whom were sent tax bills for the general taxes for the last
preceding tax year. The Village Planning and Zoning Board or Village Planning
and Zoning Board shall hear no case unless the applicant furnishes such list.
      2.   The applicant for such zoning action shall send written notice to
all persons whose names appear on the adjoining property owners list. The
applicant shall be responsible for providing the Zoning Official with the
receipts at least twenty four (24) hours prior to the public hearing.
10-12-13: TEMPORARY PERMITS:
   A.   Authority: The Zoning Official is authorized by this Title to issue a
temporary permit for uses specifically authorized in particular zoning
districts as temporary permit uses.
   B.   Hearing: The Zoning Official may, if he so desires, hold a public
hearing on the request for a temporary permit, or may contract the property
owners affected by the proposed use regarding their opinion of the use.
   C.   Conditions. The Zoning Official may require that certain conditions
relating to the public health, safety or general welfare be complied with
before the issuance of a temporary permit.
   D.   Decisions: The Zoning Official shall render a written decision on the
application for a temporary permit within a reasonable time and promptly
forward a copy of the decision to the petitioner. Appeals from the decision of
the Zoning Official can be made to the Village Board.
10-12-14: FEES:
The Village Board shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and expenses
required for building permits, zoning certificates, certificates of occupancy,
variation, special use permits, temporary use permits, amendments, signs and
other matters pertaining to this Title.
Until all such required fees have been paid, no application for any of the
above shall be deemed to have been filed and no action shall be taken on such
application.
All fees shall be paid to the office of the Zoning Official or the office of
the Village Clerk.
10-12-15: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with,
or resists enforcement of any provisions of this Title, shall be subject to a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) for each offense. Each day a violation is permitted to
exist after notification shall constitute a separate offense.
The owner or tenant of any building, structure or land, and any architect,
planner, surveyor, engineer, realtor, attorney, builder, contractor, agent, or
other person who commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such
violation may be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties
herein provided.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Village from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
10-12-16: REVERSION:
   A.   Scope Of Authority:
      1.   A variance, special use permit or change in zoning may be reverted
or revoked as provided in this Chapter if the testimony upon which such
variance, special use, permitted use or zoning change was falsely given.
      2.   A change of zoning shall be reverted as provided for in this Chapter
if the permitted variance, special use or permitted use is not in full
compliance with the applicable requirements of this Title.
      3.   A change of zoning may be reverted as provided for in this Title if
the land zoned has not been put to use as allowed in such zoned district within
three (3) years of its change of zoning.
   B.   Initiation: Reversions may be proposed by the Village Board, Planning
Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals or by any person aggrieved by a variance,
special use permit or change in zoning.
   C.   Processing: The process for reverting a variance or special use permit
or change in zoning shall be as follows:
      1.   An application for a reversion shall be filed with the Zoning
Official and shall be in such form, contain such information and be accompanied
by such plans as the Zoning Board of Appeals or Planning Commission by rule may
require.
      2.   A copy of such application shall thereafter be forwarded by the
Zoning Official to the Zoning Board of Appeals or Planning Commission with a
request to hold a public hearing.
The Planning Commission shall hear special use requests and changes in zoning.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear reversions of variances.
      3.   The Zoning Board of Appeals or Planning Commission shall hold a
public hearing within ninety (90) days after receiving the application from the
Zoning Official. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
published at least once, not less than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30)
days before the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the Village. A
copy of such notice shall be mailed by registered letter, return receipt
requested, to the current interest holders of the land as found on the last tax
assessment.
      4.   The public hearing shall be held in the Village Hall.
      5.   The Zoning Board of Appeals or Planning Commission shall, within
sixty (60) days after the hearing, transmit a written report giving its
findings and recommendations to the Village Board.
   D.   Decision: The Village Board of Trustees, upon recommendation of the
Zoning Board of Appeals or Planning Commission, may grant or deny any proposed
reversion or may refer it back to the Zoning Board of Appeals or Planning
Commission for further consideration.
CHAPTER 13
PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEMS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Purpose
10-13-2: Definitions
10-13-3: General Standards
10-13-4: Permitted Use
10-13-5: Special Use
10-13-6: Penalty
10-13-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the location and installation of
photovoltaic systems. The promotion of safe, effective and efficient use of
photovoltaic systems will be balanced against the need to preserve and protect
the public health, safety and welfare.
10-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in relation to the subject matter of this Chapter, the following
definitions shall apply:
 
                                     Means the person or entity filing an
APPLICANT:                           application for a permit under this
                                     Chapter.
                                     Means the individual or entity that
OWNER:                               intends to own and operate the
                                     photovoltaic system in accordance with
                                     the provisions of this Chapter.
                                     Means a device for changing light rays
PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM:                 from the sun into electricity, also
                                     called a solar cell.
                                     Means a photovoltaic system that is an
                                     integral part of a principal or accessory
PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM, BUILDING        building, rather than a separate
INTEGRATED:                          mechanical device, replacing or
                                     substitution for an architectural or
                                     structural component of a building.
PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM, MOUNTED ON      A photovoltaic system affixed to either
BUILDING:                            the principal or accessory structure.
                                     A photovoltaic system that is not
                                     attached to another structure and is
PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM, GROUND-MOUNTED: affixed to the ground, or that is
                                     attached to an antenna, light pole or
                                     other utility facility.
 
10-13-3: GENERAL STANDARDS:
The following requirements shall govern the construction and installation of
all photovoltaic systems:
   A.   Building Permit: All photovoltaic systems require a building permit
from the Building Inspector prior to the initiation of construction. Drawings
and specifications by a Licensed Architect or Licensed Engineer shall be
submitted to the Village of Herscher and shall provide evidence and
certification of compliance with all applicable ordinances and statutes of the
Village of Herscher and the State of Illinois.
   B.   Controls: All electrical controls shall be inspected, upon installation
by an electrician licensed by the State of Illinois.
   C.   Design Safety Certification: The safety of the design of all
photovoltaic systems shall be certified by an electrician licensed by the State
of Illinois. The standard for certification shall be good engineering practice
and compliance with all ordinances and statutes of the Village of Herscher and
the State of Illinois.
   D.   Installation Certification: The design of all photovoltaic systems
shall be certified by an electrician licensed by the State of Illinois. The
standard for certification shall be good engineering practices and compliance
with all applicable ordinances and statutes of the Village of Herscher and the
State of Illinois.
   E.   Setbacks: Setbacks from public roads and property lines shall be as
established by the Zoning Ordinances of the Village of Herscher.
   F.   Height: A building mounted photovoltaic system may not extend above the
peak roof height of the building to which the system is affixed, except on a
flat roof, the height of a building-mounted photovoltaic system shall not
extend more than six feet (6') above the roof line, or above the maximum
permitted heights in the zoning district, whichever is less. The maximum height
of a ground-mounted photovoltaic system shall be six feet (6') as measured from
the average grade at the base of the pole to the highest edge of the system.
   G.   Prohibited Location: No ground-mounted photovoltaic system shall be
constructed or maintained in the front yard of any lot or in the side yard of a
corner lot which is closest to the street.
   H.   Utilities Agreement: Proof of an inter-connection agreement between the
owner of the lot and the local public utility company shall be submitted to the
Village of Herscher with the permit application.
   I.   Accessory Use: A photovoltaic system shall be accessory to the
principal permitted use of a site.
   J.   Maintenance: All photovoltaic systems shall be maintained in compliance
with applicable Building and Safety Codes of the Village of Herscher and also
be in compliance with any other State or Federal statutes or rules and
regulations of any agency having jurisdiction to regulate such systems.
   K.   Electricity Usage: Energy produced by a photovoltaic system shall only
be used on the site where the system is located.
   L.   Signage: No sign, advertisement or attention-getting device shall be
permitted on or attached to any photovoltaic system.
10-13-4: PERMITTED USE:
Building integrated and building mounted photovoltaic systems shall be a
permitted use in all zoning districts subject to the approval of the Building
Inspector.
10-13-5: SPECIAL USE:
Ground-mounted photovoltaic systems may be authorized as a special use in all
zoning districts subject to the provisions of Section
10-12-11 of this Code.
10-13-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, corporation, entity, or organization which violates any
provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which the violation occurs or continues.
